ParlaMint-DK_20141217090000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Church Minister (Marianne Jelved): Bill no. L 96 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Economy of the People's Church. Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 97 (Proposal for a law amending the law on rentals, the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions, the law on the compulsory management of rentals and the law on urban renewal and the development of cities. Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 98 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on withholding tax, exchange gains, corporation tax, corporate tax and various other laws). Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 99 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Passport of Danish Nationals, etc., the Aliens Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 101 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Bill No. L 102 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the posting of employees, etc.) Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 103 (Proposal for a law amending the law on parental responsibility and the law on the administration of justice. Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. L 104 (Proposal for a Law on the Development and Demonstration Programme of Environmental Technology). Johan Lund Olsen (IA) and Nick Nielsen (SIU): Enquiry no. F 15 (What can the Foreign Minister inform about the process up to and the outcome of the latest offer of the service contract at Thule Air Base, including what the Minister will do to ensure the current terms and conditions of pay and employment, and what the Government intends to do to the US authorities in order to ensure that Thulebasen will continue to contribute revenue to Greenland's Landskasse as before, and how the Minister will ensure the preservation of the current apprenticeship and jobs for Greenlanders and Danes, cf. the importance of Thulebasen contributing to the Greenlandic community, as described in the letter of 9 December 2013 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the US Embassy?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141217090117	Where's the Minister of Finance? Well, he's hiding there. I just wanted to make sure he was there. I would point out that both amendments and the proposal can be commented on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217090144	Outside the supplementary report yesterday by the Conservative People's Party, an amendment has been tabled which has been wrongly referred to as No. 506. It is about the roll-back of foreign policy facilitations. It must rightly be No. 581 and will be reprinted as such. If there is no objection, I shall consider the approval of the amendment in this sitting as granted. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217090214	The Conservative People's Party has also informed me that they are no longer co-sponsors of Amendment No. 469. For the sake of fairness, I must point out that according to the same party, the following amendments, which appear in the supplementary report, have been withdrawn: No. 215, 217, 219, 220, 234, 243, 293, 294, 440, 441, 442, 444, 445 and 446. They have therefore lapsed. Then the debate is open, and that's Mr. Knox. Peter Christensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217090252	Thank you. When I look at the draft budget that lies ahead of us, I am sorry. I'm gonna be very sorry. On the other hand, the government's draft budget also confirms what I have always feared: the government has dropped the responsible course. After three years, the finance minister has dropped the mask. The man who designed a Fair Solution and Fair Change has known the color. Once, the finance minister told the Danes that they could make it all by 12 minutes • more money for the municipalities, cheaper train and bus tickets and two teachers in the class. Then the government came to power and the plans were scrapped. But now we are approaching a new election, and so all responsibility disappears again. We are back in the same irresponsible mess where bills are pushed into the future. But the bill comes, and it does, whether the next government is led by Helle and Bjarne, or if the bourgeois Denmark has been allowed to take over. The Community's financial law, says the government. But if you look at what is hidden under the packaging, it becomes clear that there is not much community in this matter. Yeah, I guess there's a lot of expenses and a lot of money being moved around. A little relief has also been given on the calories here and added a little sugar piste, but not a single private workplace extra • not a single one. And then it's just that I have to say, when you fail the ambition to create new jobs, you fail the community. It can go up and it can go down in the Danish economy, but any government owes it to the community to have the ambition that there should be more private jobs, a stronger community. It is the private jobs that pay for our common public welfare, and it is the private jobs that ultimately create the prosperity that we have to live on. There are many good Danish companies and many of them are doing well, mainly abroad. Large Danish companies are expanding the number of jobs in Germany, Poland, yes, throughout Europe, but are holding back at home. It's too slow in Denmark. We had negative economic growth in 2012 and 2013, and economic growth also does not look too sexy in 2014. And what is the government's answer? Let's talk about something else. Let's sprinkle a lot of glitter out to a lot of people before the election. But not everything that glitters is gold. Look at that check for 0.5 billion. kr. to the friends of the trade union movement. It should not be said that you have to go through a full parliamentary term with a Social Democratic Prime Minister and Finance Minister without signing up for the help you usually get from that edge when the elections are approaching. The only thing is that the government is overselling the financial bill. Socialist ministers visit kindergartens, elderly centres and health houses to promote the draft budget, and who can but like colorful pictures of smiling children and politicians? Perhaps the government on the same occasion should have told them that they are the ones paying the bill. Perhaps the government should have told them that these children's parents can shoot a white arrow at more jobs. My guess is that it's more beneficial for Dad to get a job than for each child to have an extra 0.002 educator. It's glitter, but it's not gold. The vast majority of the 14.7 billion. kr. It is only after 2015, that is to say, after a parliamentary election, that expensive initiatives in the draft budget are to be launched only well over 3.5 billion. kr. in 2015. On the government's draft budget, economics professor Sandemann Sandemann Rasmussen said: "This is a strange way of making finance laws. And then he added: It is clear that the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 will appear of more than what has actually been set aside. Another economic professor, Torben M. Andersen, said: The impact of this financial law on the economy in 2015 is modest. The government is selling illusions and air castles, and this is remarkably reminiscent of what the Socialists did before the last elections. I am one of those who rejoiced that after the last election, the government came to a better head. Time and again I have stood here and rejoiced that the government may not have quite voluntarily reduced taxes and charges and that the government has stopped public spending in return for promoting private employment. But apparently it's over now. The financial bill points in a completely different direction, and this shows that the government has always been half-hearted when it comes to creating new jobs. It's kind of like when the PM says she's with the FCK one year and then says she's with Brøndby. There's too much zigzag. Similarly, the Minister of Finance is seeing zigzagge around in economic policy. At the beginning of September, the finance minister had his officials send out a strange press release. Facts about the government's responsible economic policy, it was called. And the text started like this: The government conducts a responsible economic policy. Even if you go all the way to the limits of the budget law and the EU's Stability and Growth Pact. Then a few months passed, and suddenly it was necessary for the government to bring forward the tax on Danes' pensions. This was necessary in order to make the government's policy more or less coherent. The policy was not more responsible then. And that's not the only manipulation the government's dealing with. Take e.g. Law amending the law on electricity supply. It is hardly a law that many Danes have heard of, and I must be the first to admit that the title is probably as sexy as a printed circuit board without components. But enough about it; if you read through the papers, you get the honest truth about the government's economic policy. The bill is, in fact, an emergency brake. The aim is to postpone an already adopted and planned law. And why is that? Yes, you can read this on page 45, and I quote: The purpose of postponing the introduction of the wholesale model until 2 March 2016 is to avoid the expected one-off deficit of the introduction of the wholesale model of 1 billion. kr. falls in 2015 to ensure that Denmark stays within the deficit line of the EU Stability and Growth Pact in 2015. We therefore find ourselves in a situation where already adopted laws are to be postponed, because the government, with its financial bill, has put the Danish economy up so hard that if you implement what has already been adopted, the EU will come after us with the cane. I would like to say what it is: it is irresponsible, it is embarrassing and it is unworthy. It's all about creative accounting, and it doesn't benefit the community. The Left wants a more wholehearted course, a less fluttering course. The Community's financial law must be about creating private jobs and work placements. It must be about integrating immigrants into our community; it must be about moving people from passive support to active employment. Instead of investing in the working community, the government is doing exactly the opposite. The government increases the deficit and reduces labour supply, the government increases public spending based on over-optimistic expectations of growth and rising oil prices. But look around the world! The Left wants to continue the policy that got Denmark through the crisis. That is why we have been ready every time the government has been prepared to take a small, hesitant step in the right direction. For in the Left we will take the lead in a joint effort to develop Denmark; a joint effort to ensure that it pays better to be in work than on public support; a joint effort that makes it more attractive to operate in Denmark so that we can regain some of the many thousands of jobs we have lost; a joint effort that ensures that we can also afford the welfare society in the future. Therefore, we will reinstate the craftsman's allowance, which according to Dansk Byggeri has created a great many jobs. That is why we want to reduce the tax on the lowest income from work, so that everyone gets a greater profit from going to work. That is why we want to put an end to expenditure which will ensure that public expenditure only increases in line with price and wage developments. We in the Left believe that public service should be in order, but that is the taxpayers' money, and that is why they must be given proper priority. Within the framework of a freeze on expenditure, there are billions and billions that we can put in place for the benefit of our citizens. And we give priority to health care; we will make good health care even better. The private sector has for decades increased productivity and service and kept prices quiet. This must also be possible in the public sector. In the Left, we know that public employees are not less skilled or less creative than private employees. That is why, of course, it is also possible to keep budgets and at the same time provide the same high level of service in the public sector. We dare to have ambition and make demands, and this is exactly where we see the difference to the government. The government lacks reasonable ambition. Instead, at least the Social Democrats are trying to relaunch a Fair Solution in new clothes in lasers and rags. Call it "Fair Solution 2.0" or maybe "Fair Solution 2" or "Fair Solution 2" will return. The Minister of Finance claims that this year's draft budget belongs to the community. Unfortunately, that is wrong, because this year's draft budget belongs only to the government community, the trade union movement and the left. The only thing is that when you fail the ambition to create jobs, you fail the Danish community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091402	We shall now proceed to the brief remarks, with this one minute's delay in speaking time. It's first, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091413	Thank you. I am here with the much-discussed debate manual of the Left. It's got a lot of names, but let's just call it that. It says that the scope which the government has committed itself to spending every year on making the public sector even bigger will be used by the Left to reduce taxes and taxes so that we can improve the competitiveness of businesses. In addition, I can say that the scope to which reference is made amounts to 20 billion. kr., which the government on the other hand will spend on better welfare. Is it correct to understand that the Left will spend that money on facilitating taxes on businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091453	Yeah, that's not it, sir. Jesper Petersen read out, because what it says is that we want to use the scope to increase the competitiveness of companies, and that also includes looking at the taxation of labour income, because it is also part of the competitiveness of companies. So we want to see, as can be seen from our financial legislation, that there is money both to ease the tax on income from work and that, for example, one can see that there is money to ease the tax on income from work. looks at some of the taxes that are special for Danish companies. Take the NOx tax. The government has, has it quadrupled the NOx tax? It is a tax that many parts of the Danish trade union movement say is directly harmful to their members and, as companies say, their competitiveness is clearly worse. That is a concrete example. But unfortunately, there are plenty of taxes in this country that are special to Denmark, and that is why we do not come to Despite our ambition to keep the size of the public sector, one of the world's largest, in peace, to be able to make room for the abolition of all the special taxes and taxes that exist in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091617	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091619	Yes, I stood with the debate manual and could read out something that can't but imply that it's about corporate taxes. Then there comes a long smear from Mr. Peter Christensen. But can we be told what part of what is actually involved is real business tax relief, or is it just a little loose talk that the Left brings in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091645	No, it's not a loose talk at all. We have a clear ambition that we need to do something for job creation in Denmark, and there I think we are very different from the Socialists. What is vital for you to do so is to find the money. And the way we want to create economic space to ease some of the burdens on Danish jobs is not to let one of the world's largest public sectors grow. It provides space, and we would like that room to be used to lighten taxes and taxes. That the Social Democratic Party now believes that it only applies to business taxes, after more than three years of discussion, that there is a need to do something to make it pay more to move from passive support to active employment, is something I wonder, because it is precisely a question of both a modern ceiling on cash aid, but also of lowering the tax on the lowest labour income, with the two instruments ensuring that it is more profitable to go to private employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091758	Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091800	Thank you. Well, we understand that the entire revenue from zero growth is 20 billion. kr. towards 2020, will be spent on tax and tax relief. Can we not go any further into the distribution of the amount of tax relief to be granted to companies, that is to say tax exemptions, and how much is to be paid for personal tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091824	In contrast to the governing parties, we are very concerned that there is no promise of anything that can be kept with a hundred per cent certainty. I know that I would like to shock half of the Parliamentary Chamber here, especially in view of the draft budget that we are considering now, because it is very much about sending unpaid bills out into the future, that is to say promises that you do not know if you can keep. That is why the Left has always said that we are setting a direction for our policy, and we will try to achieve it if we can get a majority in favour of it. That's what the voters decide. But that is the direction in which we want one of the world's largest public sectors to be kept at rest, and then we use the room for manoeuvre to reduce taxes and charges which are being asked for. Can I then guarantee that we can stop spending all the years? We don't know. That is what we have to negotiate after an election. Because you can listen to the fact that there are other parties who think otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091939	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217091940	Anyway, the 20 billion. kr., which government parties have to invest in welfare until 2020, must go solely to tax incentives and we cannot in any way get an answer as to how the distribution will be between corporate tax reliefs and personal tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092001	The Radical Left is probably more confident and more confident that the Left can decide politics alone than we are. But all the time that we cannot do that, we have not made it clear that we have exactly 20 billion. kr. to facilitate taxes and charges. The amount will also be smaller by 2020, i.e. the longer the government sits. It's a mathematical fact. That is why we have not established ourselves, but we can see in our specific financial legislation that we are putting a sum of money there, for example. To remove NO x And then there's a sum that we say should go to e.g. to ease the tax burden on the lowest income from work. The actual distribution also depends on how much money is available. So I can't get any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092058	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092101	In Jyllands-Posten on 3 December Mr. Peter Christensen expressed that we have a government that lives beyond its means and that the government now promises the Danes welfare that it will not deliver. But the thing is, with this community finance law, we actually deliver welfare. There is money for more educators, there is a massive vitamin injection to health care, and there is money for a rock card for the elderly who can get home help and other things. Is the Left's message to the Danes today that if the Left comes in, you're going to turn this investment back, then you're going to drop the investment that's added to with the Community's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092148	No, it's not. Because we have said from the start that we would vote in favour of the budget bill if the government had a majority behind it. And the government, unfortunately not with the Left, but with the Enhedslisten. It was very limited what the government wanted to talk to the Left about this year. I think that is a pity, not for the Left, but for Denmark and for the result we are looking at now. But that does not change the fact that, when it comes to concrete proposals, we will of course vote in favour of the things we do not want to roll back today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092233	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092234	Now, in his speech, the rapporteur of the Left himself used the term a printed circuit board with no components. It's a little hard to see for yourself, but when you hear Mr. Peter Christensen is talking about the financial policy of the Left, it is quite clear what the picture is being spoken about. There's nothing about politics, it's just tax cuts and extravagance. The left has said it himself: a printed circuit board without components.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092301	It is strange to hear that the Left has no politics when the criticism of the Social Democrats is so harsh on what we want. That's the zigzag course I also mentioned in my speech. And this is not just about the policy of the government, where you are constantly in doubt as to which way to go. It is also in the criticism of the Left where you zigzag and cannot find out whether we have a policy or not. The truth is, we disagree. We want something different. The Left will give priority to growth, we will give priority to private job creation, and we have some concrete instruments for how we can achieve a result. The government in return and the Socialists have for three years said continuously that everything is now good, we are now getting high growth, and that is why we need not do anything for private employment. And eight times I think we're up to it, you've had to downgrade the financial estimates and have therefore pursued a policy that doesn't correspond to reality. You were overoptimistic. I'm not criticizing the government for being wrong about the estimates. I criticise the government for pursuing a policy that does not relate to reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092419	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092420	Danmarks Statistik expects that by 2019 there will be 87,000 more folk pensioners in Denmark. At the same time, the Left's proposal for zero growth will mean fewer public employees. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is bound to mean fewer employees in the care of the elderly for more elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092439	I'm not going to confirm anything that's wrong. So, it is the case that a stop to expenditure does not mean that public budgets are locked in pennies and pennies. However, public budgets increase each year by the rate of increase in wages and increase by the price increases for product groups. This means that the people employed the previous year can also have been employed the following year, and the goods you could buy the previous year can also be purchased the following year. That is why I cannot accept that a freeze on expenditure means fewer public employees. There will then be a need in certain parts of the public sector as a result, for example, of: Getting older? Yes, there is, and that corresponds to approx. 12 billion kr., and that is also what the government has in its own 2020 plan, namely that you have to have more service for the same money, i.e. for approx. 12 billion kr. We agree that you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092554	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092556	We therefore agree that there will be 87 000 more pensioners for the next four years. Will the rapporteur of the Left so completely reject the fact that public zero growth over a period of 87,000 more folk pensioners means fewer employees per year? elderly in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092616	As a starting point, having a cost freeze allows the same employees to be employed. And I think that if we succeed, we in the municipalities will also be happy about it. For what are the facts, and was it also while the SF sat in government? Yes, it is that exactly the area, as Mr. Jonas Dahl asks, has had negative growth. There has been a negative growth in municipal service expenditure in 2011, 2012 and 2013. That is why it is amazing to be asked whether pursuing a policy which, as a starting point, allows for the same economy and thus not negative growth, as when SF was in government, is not a problem. Yes, I don't know. SF can answer that for itself: Did the service for the elderly get worse? Has it deteriorated in the last three years? Because if that is the case, then let us have a discussion about how we can deal with it. How are we going to prioritise, what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092724	Sir. Frank Aaen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092727	It is amazing that you can stand and say that even if there are more older people, you can do the same service with the same number of employees as there are today. Okay, that's what the Left has to explain. In addition, however, in some of the amendments, the Left is proposing today that 1.5 billion be saved. kr. in the public sector by increasing privatisation and outsourcing. Where are they going to be 1.5 billion? kr. Isn't there a way to find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092803	The Financial Law Agreement that lies here is not the one we would have liked to see, and that is what we are expressing with our amendments. However, if the government had wanted to engage in dialogue with us and agreed with our amendments, we would also be in a situation today where those things could be implemented, but it goes without saying that as the weeks go by and because of the fact that the Left is not part of the majority, yes, it will be a more and more theoretical discussion that we shall then have about how the Left will implement something that is not a majority in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092844	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092846	It is becoming more and more marvelous, I would say completely out in the hemp. I simply asked about the Left Amendment No. 471. It says that we must privatise and outsource, saving 1.5 billion. kr., which you will then use for anything. All I'm saying is, how do you find 1.5 billion? kr. by privatisation and outsourcing? We could get an answer to that, couldn't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217092919	We believe that this can be done as well. I mean, ISS, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that if we were to allow private people to offer practical services, we would be able to save 12 billion. kr. It's been their bid. I could also note that when the debate was going on in the media, there were a great many mayors who were out to say: we are sceptical of the Left's proposal because there is a short time to implement it; we would like to see it and it is freely quoted that it came in as part of the normal municipal economic agreements, so you had the time to do so. But that was not an argument against it being possible. I think that is interesting, because it is they who in the specific tasks, for example. the specific service tasks such as cleaning and other would have to make such a saving in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093030	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093036	I would like to raise a slightly different subject. On 3 October, the Left Torsten Schack Pedersen told Berlingske's news agency about the government's advance on pension taxation, and I quote: "The government has been right to the edge of what is possible in relation to EU rules. That is why I must say that I am very disappointed that there is no provision for making a responsible financial law. Instead, you come up with such a hocus-pocus solution where you bring forward some money that just anticipates the joys. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is understood correctly that the Left is now backing the advance of pension taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093115	Yes, we are voting in favour, but I fully agree with that, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is quoted for. I also mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech. It comes after the government has stood and said that the Finance Act that was presented was responsible, that it was within the framework, and then because you had to give great gifts to the Enhedslisten during the Finance Law negotiations, you had to hurry up some room for manoeuvre, and this was done by bringing forward the taxation of pensions. I think that is scandalous, because it clearly shows that the economy was not under control. We support it because the Danes can do so voluntarily, and we will not, in fact, stand in the way of that, but that does not change the fact that the draft budget presented by the government and the policy with which the Enhedslisten has had to be paid in order to get them to vote in favour are incredibly unsightly overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093231	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093232	That's interesting. Now we have also just heard, as the previous question asks, that perhaps there is a gap in the Left Finance Act package of at least 1.5 billion. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the Left Finance Act would have exceeded the EU's requirements next year if it had not actually been for the pension package.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093251	It will always be an interesting discussion when the Left is responsible for the economic policy of the government, because we cannot. In other words, we believe that a different policy on foreigners could have done something to ensure that the high, high costs that have come suddenly could have been somewhat less. We also believe that there will be a greater margin by means of the financial bill we have put forward. If you go in and look at it, you can see that we do not spend more money, so we have a surplus on the financial bill we have put forward. So I do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093342	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093346	Thank you. It is now clear that the Left's economic plan is slightly shattered, especially these 1.5 billion. kr., which one has to find very, very quickly in hovsaudliciteringer in all 98 different financial budgets out there in the municipalities, seems a bit like thought money, and I still do not think that we have received any answers on how exactly the outsourcings should be carried out. What is it that needs to be outsourced? What is it that can be saved so rapidly and efficiently in the municipalities that 1.5 billion is being obtained. kr. To the left plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093425	In other words, as I have said in the past, we believe that there is an untapped potential for making things better and cheaper. It can also be seen that the level of outsourcing in the municipalities under this government is increasing. It is because the municipalities, no matter what colour the government has, have realised that there are some options here. I have several different examples from specific municipalities of what is being done today. But we can also see that ISS, which is one of the companies carrying out some of these tasks, believes that, if you outsource and price samples private service tasks for 100 billion. kr., then can save 12 billion. kr. But what is also interesting is to ask whether it is a policy with which the Left stands alone, that is to say, that by 2020 we should be able to get more welfare for the same money, for 12 billion. kr. No, it's not. Because it is also part of the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093541	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093542	Thank you. Then I'll just have a brief follow-up question. The mayor of the left in Brønderslev, where I come from, calls this initiative utopia, and it is not only because we are now in December, that he made it all the way back to when the initiative came. Does the rapporteur think that it is a visionless mayor who has just not seen the potential?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093603-2	No, I just don't agree that there's no potential. I also note that it may then be that it is not the case with Brønderslev that the tendering rate in relation to the service tasks in the municipalities under this government is increasing. It is therefore taking place in the municipalities, where it is different mayors who make that decision. And if that's not the case in Brønderslev I'm not aware of that, then I think they should consider it. Because what this is all about is being able to get more service to citizens for the same money. Who can be against that vision? It must be about quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093642	Sir. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093645	As part of the Left's financial bill, there should be this 1.5 billion. kr. in the municipalities. I read Jyllands-Posten on September 24 this year, where Mr. Peter Christensen says about it, and now I quote: there are two options, either the government makes finance law with us, and then there comes a new agreement with the municipalities, or we get a new government, and then we make a new agreement with the municipalities. I just need to make sure I get it right. Does this mean that the Left is ready to reopen the municipal agreement that was made this summer and that the Left helped to vote through the Finance Committee that summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093719	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093721	In what the questioner rightly quotes there, there are some factual, technical things about making a financial law. Prerequisite number 1 for an opposition party to get its policy through is, of course, that the government will talk to the opposition party. The government wouldn't. The government did not want to talk to the Left, which is why we have not come through with this amendment either. Then we are asked: what if the election comes? I heard the Prime Minister say that it was not until September that there should be elections. Then it will also be a rather strange discussion, because then we have come so far that the financial year has passed. That is why I think it is a rather strange discussion. I would rather have a debate with the Socialists at first reading about whether we should not do something together that would allow us to do something for private employment and we could have found solutions together. You just haven't been interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093835	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093837	It was almost a little too easy to get out of that question. But let's try to move on. After all, we have made a financial agreement where we agreed with the parties we made it together with the municipalities to have 325 million. kr. more next year for educators and home help. Now that the Left has proposed that 1.5 billion should be taken. kr. from the municipalities, and we are actually going to give some money to the municipalities, is it to be understood that the Left will withdraw the extra money for educators and home help that we have given? And if I may ask the rapporteur in the end: has it ever happened before that an economic agreement is made in the summer and then reopens it in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093920	The latter, I think, is a rather strange question, because it is being reopened because of the enormous costs that suddenly come to the municipalities as a result of the government's immigration policy. Therefore, the question basically makes no sense, i.e. whether a municipal economic agreement could be opened. That's what you're doing. This is then being done because the municipalities have the bill for the increasing number of asylum seekers. So, yes, you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217093958	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094002	I think it was very nice that the Left rapporteur admitted that with 87,000 more older people in 2019 there should be the same number of employees with the Left zero growth. In other words, employees must run faster. It's a confession case. Then I would also like to know whether the Left believes that it should be the elderly who pay the bill for the Left's zero growth. Because if you look at the figures of the Ministry of Finance, you can see that with zero growth in the future, it will mean that a pensioner loses DKK 5,000. A year ago, because we know that the tax cuts in the way that the Left plans to set them up do not benefit pensioners. This means that pensioners in Denmark lose 5,000 DKK. a year. I just want to ask whether the Left thinks it is fair for pensioners to pay the bill for tax relief to the richest people in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094057	It is nice to have a very specific question. And I can completely reject the fact that the pensionists lose 5,000 kroner if the Left is to have government responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094112	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094113	In other words, the Left will not reduce the amount for the pensioners, the Left will not reduce health and, as the rapporteur of the Left said to Mr Socialist Group. Simon Kollerup earlier, you don't want to cut back on the children's field either. I'd like to know where the Left is going to find the money. Is it simply by saying that the public employees must run faster? Is this really what is estimated in relation to zero growth in the future, i.e. that there will be no more public employees, but since there will be more elderly people, do the public employees simply have to put on roller skates so that they can take care of everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094149	To the chairman of the SF, I would say: frankly, for the last three years, when SF was a member of the government most of the time, the economy of the municipalities has been reduced while there have been more older people. So stop the hypocrisy, stop it now! So what are we saying? Yes, we say that we do not want one of the world's largest public sectors to just grow further, because we want to be able to afford to create some private jobs. Because we believe that it creates a positive spiral in which growth is increasing, tax revenues are increasing, and in which we also get a richer country and can also afford public welfare. That is our ambition. But we are not going to cut back on the amount of pensionists. And to say we're gonna take $5,000. This is in stark contrast to the fact that the current government has created negative economic growth in the municipalities over the last three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094305	Sir. Per Clausen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094307	When you come to the debate as late as I do, you do not have to prepare, because something always arises because of bad answers. But here it has gone very wrong for me, because now I really don't know where to go. But I will try to stick to some of the last things that were going on in the debate. I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Christensen: It is true that in recent years there have been more elderly people per year. employed in the elderly sector. Is this a development, as Mr. Peter Christensen believes that it can be strengthened in the years to come without having any consequences for the service that the elderly receive? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094343	Our ambition is, of course, and that is how I think the government believes that if you can do things better, even with fewer hands for that matter, so people experience a quality improvement, then that's fine, then that's okay. It can never be about using public crowns just to use them. Surely it must be about what the citizens get of quality. What I find interesting is that when you listen to the government parties, it appears that they say that public services to the elderly, to the school pupils, in the areas for which the municipalities are responsible, have not deteriorated in the last three years, and that is so despite the fact that the economy of the municipalities has been cut. And when we say that, as a starting point, we believe that we should have the same money, then it is quite wrong. It's illogical, and it lacks explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094456	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094457	Actually, a large part of Mr. Peter Christensen's argument is pure nonsense. Where are those in the Parliamentary Chamber who do not think that care should be taken to ensure that the elderly receive as good a service as possible and that this should be done as effectively as possible? No one thinks so, so it is an argument against nonexistent positions. I just want to repeat my question to Mr. Peter Christensen: Is it Mr. Peter Christensen's view that, in addition to the cuts in money for the elderly in recent years, compared to how many older people there are, we can just continue this development over the next 10 years without leading to any worse service, or is it crucial for the Left that we keep the level or get a better service for the elderly? Is it what is crucial for the Left, or is saving money crucial? Somewhere there has to be a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094547	Yes, two things: first of all, I do not agree that it is nonsense to discuss how to achieve the best possible service. The Enhedslisten is an excellent example of the fact that the only thing you don't want to do is to test whether you can get better service and higher quality by e.g. to send some tasks in tenders. So it is certainly not a debate on which we see the same, because we are preoccupied with quality rather than who is doing the job. Therefore, in response to the last point: yes, it is quality that is crucial. And I think that if you can get the same quality or better by doing things in a different way, then that's fine. What the government is actually saying in its 2020 plan is that the government has an ambition that you for 12 billion. kr. should be able to get more service by doing things better, not by saving the 12 billion. kr., but simply by being able to get more service equivalent to 12 billion. kr. And there is my point that this is the policy on which the Left would also like to build, because we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094658	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094700	We're happy over here on this side to help give 325 million. kr. extra for better childcare and better home help, i.e. to increase quality in relation to our children and to increase quality in relation to our older people. And I really think that these people out there, the families of children, the children, the elderly, have a right to know whether the Left, if you come after the next elections, will roll back these initiatives. Will it be said to the children that all the money this government has given and all these improvements are being removed again? I certainly think they should have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094742	Well, I fully agree with that requires a clear answer and we have no plans to roll it back. We will also vote in favour of the amendments today. But let me add that I also mentioned in my speech that it comes 0.002 educator extra per. child, probably not what makes the difference. That is probably not what makes the difference when you also look at the challenges that Denmark faces.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094820	Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094822	Okay, now you don't want to roll that back, but you still want to get out of here with zero growth, because if you don't, sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen is not prime minister. He said so himself. And you will have a problem, because at some point 87 000 more pensioners will come and, with zero growth, some money will have to be found. Well, where the hell is that money gonna be if you don't want to roll this back? So later, you're gonna have to do it later when you're gonna keep this zero growth? It lags completely behind the answers we receive from the Left. Well, the policy is missing. Where is the policy, and what can these people expect from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217094903	Now the criticism is suddenly that we have no policy, that the fact that we really believe that one of the world's largest public sectors does not need to grow further is not a policy, despite the fact that we are using the whole debate to disagree on what opportunities it will offer to create private jobs. Then the charge comes again that there will be more elderly people, so that, as a starting point, the possibility of keeping the same economic framework in the municipalities is quite wrong, despite the fact that the government has cut the economy of the municipalities for the last three years, even though there have been more older people. The policy of the Left is well linked, but the Social Democrats do not like to deal with the difference in their party programme, and then the reality that has been in the last three years, while the Social Democrats have been watching that, I think they themselves call it. I think it is disgraceful if we should now enter an election campaign where we should again see one unfunded election vow after another, one air castle after another from the Socialists, who themselves know that it does not have a chance to be implemented after election. It's a bribe from the voters. I'm really ugly about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095031	We shall have one last brief comment from Mr Seligman. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095033	No, what's ugly is if you can't get clear answers. I was a little puzzled that earlier in today's debate, the rapporteur of the Left said something about zero growth and the spending freeze. He said that we must then see if we can get through that and, if so, for how many years. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has told you that the cost freeze is... the clear starting point and the basic platform on which I want to stand if I am to be Prime Minister. And if I can't get up there, then the other parties have to put someone else up there. • Is zero growth no longer a key requirement for the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095113	It is complete, as the President of the Left, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, says, that this is our starting point. That is what we want to work for. That is what we are going to vote for. And now there's something that can shake Mr. Jens Joel. It will shake Mr. Jens Joel: We are a little cautious in promising things, as there is the possibility that the Left will not get an absolute majority. I know that the Socialists do not put into their electoral vows. You can remember a Fair Solution from before the election. It's crazy how much you've run from your own politics. It is so fair that you get smarter, but then we have to listen to criticism that the Left will not promise the voters anything that we are not 100% sure we can do and that the Socialists are in the process of repeating the pledges made before the last elections. There's nothing else to do but let the voters decide on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095221	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095222	Stop the bang talk. What I'm asking is that Lars Løkke Rasmussen says: If I can't get up there, then other parties have to put someone else up there. How is it to be understood that this is a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095249	The fact that forming a government is a negotiation is a basic condition of politics. I think the Socialists learned that in the tower. But I just don't know what we're really discussing. Because I started by agreeing with the questioner that what Lars Løkke Rasmussen says is the starting point of the Left, and therefore there is really nothing further to add. We will be working for a stop to expenditure for the simple reason that it will provide an economic space for us to create private jobs. We think that is needed. In these years, Denmark has lower growth than many other countries. This means that when you go to a high school and discuss politics, you can tell the young people that they are the first generation to become poorer than their parents' generation. I do not think that is an ambition that we should accept. I think we should do something about this, and that requires that we also have some money to lighten burdens so that we can create jobs and create private growth. That's my vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095403	Another request has been made for a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095406	Thank you. I understood from the President-in-Office that there was time for that. This is a rather interesting debate we have here. First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he cannot confirm that we currently have a government governed by social democracy and that it is the current government that has made an economic statement. And that is quite interesting when you read it, because what is it really that the current government is warning after 2015? It foreshadows a real growth in public consumption of 0.1%. A great deal has now been said about 0 per cent, and the rapporteur cannot admit that from 0 per cent. to 0.1%. Is there a very, very small jump? And what the current Social Democratic-led government went to the polls on was 1.4%. In fact, in 2015, more than that, because there is a growth of 1.5%. But what is written in the Economic Statement? It is written that, because of the high public spending on asylum, this is achieved. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095509	Well, I don't think that sir... René Christensen from the Danish People's Party has said something that was wrong. However, it is being asked whether I can confirm that we have a social democratic government. I can do that. But I understand that it is necessary to ask whether I can confirm it, because when we have such a debate here, it is possible to hear from members of the Social Democratic Parliament that there is a very, very large distance to the government. So the policy spoken of in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group and the reality administered by the Social Democratic radical government are like the Moon and the Earth. But that does not change the fact that, unfortunately, we have a social democratic government. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095555	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095558	I have another question. Now there's a lot of talk about this with home help and employees out in the community. And if you can read from the Economic Statement that there is indeed a growth of 0.9 per cent, but that at the same time it says that growth is there because there is a very large increase in expenditure on asylum, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that in reality, in the municipalities, when you have a very high cost in the area of asylum, and when you have a very high cost in terms of integration, there are more home helpers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095629	No, it does not automatically do so, at least because the reason why the municipal budgets had to be opened is because there has been an explosive increase in the number of asylum seekers, and it is the municipalities that are stuck to many of the bills associated with this. So the policy pursued by the government has a consequence. Then it is quite right that what was surprising to see in the Economic Statement that we received last week is that the government operates with that it will have a public growth rate of 0.1 per cent in 2016, and this is so opposed to the fact that the Left believes that we should keep spending calm, i.e. have 0 per cent, and that is the difference between whether everything is good or everything is bad. And I hope that the Danes can realise that this is nonsense, because what is needed is that we find some muscles to be able to do something for private employment. That is the vision of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095744	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217095755	I am delighted here in December with my little son because every day we come closer to Christmas Eve and because today we are going to debate and soon adopt the Finance Act for next year. And as a Social Democrat, there is good reason to welcome the Finance Act. When the government had presented its proposal in late summer and we discussed it here in the Folketing, I mentioned the story of 90-year-old Esther Andersen from Copenhagen. In Copenhagen, they had chosen to use the money from the elderly billion that the government placed last year for a rock card scheme where, as older people, you can save home help time together to do or do something you choose. And Esther Andersen had chosen something that she had loved since she was a child, namely a trip to the swimming pool, where the 90-year-old lady in her own words does not feel like a day over 70. When you read that story, there is no doubt that the older billionaire and Copenhagen rock maps give Esther Andersen some extra quality of life, and the final Finance Act now contains that this opportunity with rock cards for optional home help, which can be used at once to get vacuumed once in a while, take a walk or get prepared a favorite dish, is no longer just a Copenhagen phenomenon, but the rock map is spread throughout the country so that the weakest group of elderly people in all municipalities can enjoy the good idea. That is precisely one of the reasons why I have been looking forward to today, because we have a budget law in which we can once again do something for people who have earned it and who need an extra hand from the community. It is older people like Esther Andersen who, at an advanced age, need the community of the welfare society and now have a little better opportunity to put the agenda in their own daily lives. It is the unskilled worker who needs his trade union to secure a decent wage and combat social dumping that may threaten his job; he is now receiving a concrete tax relief and discrimination against the real trade union movement is removed because the deduction for professional quotas is increased. It is the Danes, whom we all know of, who are affected by cancer or chronic diseases and who, together with their family and friends, are thrown out into a very difficult time; there we can now put 5 billion. kr. for better treatment over the next 4 years. It is all the unemployed Danes who need us to pursue an economic policy that contributes to creating more jobs, and here too we are delivering the Finance Act. And it is the citizens of those cities where it is now possible to ensure more mixed resident compositions and create a well-functioning city rather than increased fragmentation and more wealthy ghettoes. We do all this because we mean something with the community and the welfare society we have together in Denmark, with free access to good health care and education, with proper welfare for the elderly, where we stand together to combat social dumping, where we stand together to create new jobs and where the problems of the neighbour are also my problem. The welfare society is a better and more humane solution to the challenges that Denmark faces than just saying, as other parties here in the Folketing want: Think more of yourself. After all, today's debate and the votes we will have later show the difference between the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament who are at the forefront of making a budget law or whether it is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. The only thing we know about sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's policy is that he will conduct a zero growth experiment with the public sector. That will mean 20 billion by 2020. kr. less to the common welfare equivalent to 28,000 fewer public employees than the government will and can afford with its economic policy. How many of the 28,000 are nurses? How many are social and health assistants? How many are policemen? How much more does the Left think the Danes should pay in user fees? No one can get answers to any of the questions, and no one can get answers to where and when the hammer should fall. But then we can work on it ourselves and look at the financial law that lies ahead of us from the government and see what would be left of zero growth. In the government's Finance Act, there is better cancer treatment. There's no money for that with zero growth. There are several educators in the day institutions. There's no money for that with zero growth. There are clipping cards for optional home help, which I mentioned. There would be no room for zero growth. There is more equality in health through a comprehensive health issue. Nor can we afford that with zero growth. There is a stronger response to social dumping. It is also not possible to achieve zero growth. But that is also what we know about the Left's zero growth in 2015. What is to happen in the following years - 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 - loses itself in the fog. The only thing we can count on, Mr. Peter Christensen a moment ago is that the money, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen saves on the community, instead must be used for tax cuts and preferably for the most wealthy. The Left is still refusing to present a real economic plan that goes years ahead. And even their attempt at a draft Finance Act for 2015 is not linked. With the amendments tabled by the Left to the Government's Finance Act, on which we are voting tonight, they are trying to hide the consequences of zero growth with various creative accounting techniques that will make it look as if you have a lot of money for welfare, while at the same time allocating large amounts of money to tax cuts and zero growth. Let me just give you a few examples. One of the Left's most important funding proposals is to reopen 98 municipal and 5 regional budgets and cut 1.5 billion. kr. I guess you'll notice 14 days before the same budgets have to come into effect. It's never happened before, and it doesn't add up. As something new in the country's economic planning, the Left will not set aside a penny for unforeseen expenses in the Danish economy next year. It's not responsible, and it doesn't add up. The Left will finance a great many things with a so-called modern cash aid ceiling, and what it is really about cannot be explained by the Left. You just adjust the amount in the spreadsheet as you move forward so that a little more tax breaks can be fitted in. But it doesn't add up. And just a moment ago there has now been an answer to the Committee on Finance, which shows that without the advance of pension tax revenues, the Left's draft Finance Bill would clearly break with the 3-percent limit on the actual deficit, which the Left itself has warned so much against. But that kind of fixation is left out in order to conceal the consequences of their zero growth policy. I read in the press that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen certainly does not spend time drinking beer with Mr. Kristian Jensen. And then perhaps the two could devote a few hours to getting the concrete and honest plan that the Left owes to the Danes. Or is it just that the Left will simply not stand by the consequences of their zero growth experiment with the common welfare of the Danes and not before a choice dare take the real discussion about the ways in Danish politics? Compared with his party leader colleagues in the Left and Conservative and Liberal Alliance, the money for public expenditure is quite different from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Whether it is free public transport to the elderly, 10 billion. kr. more to defend or increase early retirement and old people's cheques, then Dansk Folkeparti will not hold back. And Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is now not exactly a teammate when it comes to tax cuts, so far from it. The Danish People's Party has proposed a total of 46 billion. kr. in tax relief, it appeared recently from the daily newspaper BT. The only thing, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't come along, is a suggestion on where the money should come from. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's economic policy has long been a mystery, but now the DR has given me the answer to where the inspiration for the reckless use of the funding of often sympathetic but also very expensive proposals comes from. After all, Jullerup Færgeby will be re-issued this year. It was first sent in 1974, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has undoubtedly seen it several times. And in Jullerup Færgeby there are actually quite a lot of things you can get for 1 krone, actually more and more things that the series is progressing. And Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl simply saw converted into the economic policy of the Danish People's Party. You almost hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl walks and hums in the hallways: A home for a stray cat, all man gets lower treasure, and a bridge on Kattegat you can get for a crown. You can hold your pants now, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl? While saying that he wants more growth in the public sector, he points to a prime minister candidate who wants zero growth. At the same time as he gives the impression of repenting of his own idea of the welfare reform of care for the unemployed, he will nevertheless support the fact that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Anders Samuelsen may be in the driver's seat when new adjustments to the daily allowance are to be discussed after the next election. It is obviously too much to scare over politically, more than even the longest legs and the most solid trouser bag can handle. And as in Jullerup Færgeby, I must say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Kristian, you've cracked your pants. Politics for the Social Democrats is about ordinary people's everyday lives, opportunities and dreams for themselves and their families. We are concerned that people have a job to stand up for in the morning, have access to good common welfare institutions, and that society extends a proper social safety net under those who are particularly difficult. And with this financial law, the government is moving on in that direction. It is not the solution at all, so we will continue to work. We are continuing with economic policy, which means that there has been continuous growth in employment five quarters in a row, and that over 30,000 more people have entered work since last summer, with large public investment, growth plans and investment in training and the upgrading of our workforce. The agreements on the Finance Act will make a positive difference to ordinary people in Denmark and underline the will of the Social Democrats to strengthen our community of solidarity in terms of welfare. So I look forward to Christmas Eve with the family and to the adoption of the Community Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217100812	Then there are a number of comments. First, it's sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217100828	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen is asking for a 2020 plan from the Left, so I would like to repeat what we have often discussed in this Chamber. I mean, we're leaning on the government's 2020 plan, and I can therefore send Mr. Jesper Petersen the government's 2020 plan and say that the only thing that is then different is that where the government wants to make one of the world's largest public sectors bigger, we want to keep public spending quiet and then spend the money on lightening taxes and charges. That's the difference. However, we share the economic framework laid down in the 2020 plan, and we do not do our own, because we agree with what the government has put forward. That was the answer to that. But I also have a question if I can reach it at all, and that is: Jesper Petersen, that there is a problem in relation to among others. Did the Fund take DK, given that the price of oil is so low?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217100947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217100949	Sir. Fortunately, Peter Christensen has one more question, but he has to find out what he really wants to discuss. But just to this issue of a 2020 plan, I can hear that the Left is trying to make the issue of zero growth a detail, yet it is so important that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has said that he will not even be Prime Minister if he is not allowed to implement it. And Mr. Peter Christensen cannot honestly say that it is a detail whether there will be 20 billion in the next few years. kr. from or equivalent to 28,000 public employees from or to, at the same time, significantly more elderly, more expensive health care services and more young people who would like to take an education. We have these tasks and I suppose we also have areas where we want to improve quality. We can do that because we don't have zero growth. It makes a huge difference to our society. And that's why you can't try to make this a banality or an indifference. This is a crucial discussion. But I understand that the Left simply does not intend to answer those questions before the elections, will not allow the Danes to have a real discussion and debate on the way our society should go; one simply does not present its policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101054	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101055	Let us finally stick to that subject. I have then responded to what I was asked about, namely a 2020 plan. Now the idea is that I should also ask the Socialist democratic rapporteur something, but that is an attempt. When the Economic Statement suggests that there should be a public growth of 0.1 in 2016, does the Social Democracy believe that it makes the big difference whether you have 0.0 or 0.1? Can't you put a little word on whether you think it makes a big difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101137	Yes. It is not difficult to say that there is a difference between having a growth rate of 0.0 per cent, which is what the Left is proposing, without, however, taking responsibility for the consequences and telling the Danes honestly, that it means welfare degradation, and that there is an average of 0.6 per cent. growth in the public sector over these years. That's the way it is. I believe Mr. Knox. Peter Christensen is so talented that I know he also has an average bill that he knows that in 2015 we have a growth of 1.5%. and in 2016 one of 0.1 per cent, i.e. 1.6 per cent. Together, we have actually reached over 0.6%. in public growth. So no to the one year difference of 0.1%. From or through it makes a big difference over all these years. But the fact that it actually makes a very big difference whether you have a growth in the public sector that allows you to take up tasks, raise quality, keep up with when, for example, there is a difference between the two. become more older, or if you don't have a penny for it and want to shoot them off alone for tax relief. I don't know if sir. Peter Christensen actually got the answer or was too busy discussing with his party colleagues, but I am happy to reply to it again if there is a need for it to be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101245	Then it's mr. René Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101249	First of all, I want to thank you for the song. I have a question, and this is because after the song Jesper Petersen came up with the question of daily allowances and then says that this is what the Danish People's Party will then do after a choice. No, the Danish People's Party doesn't have to wait until after an election. Surely I can count on a majority if the Social Democratic Party will help to change the unemployment benefit reform that is in place. This is an open invitation. Invite Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten over for coffee, and we will look into it. What you can see is made in this Finance Act is not a solution. When you look at what it costs, you will see that for the same money the solution that was demanded could have been made regarding the right of recovery. When the rapporteur says that this is the outcome of an election, does the rapporteur not agree that it is not because the Danish People's Party did not want to participate in these negotiations, it is because we have not been invited, it is because the Social Democratic Party will not solve the challenge in the area of unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101341	Sir. René Christensen knows very well what the facts are like in that discussion about the daily allowance, but, as in so many other cases, people are touching the populist porridge and giving the impression that they could change these things from one day to the next, despite the fact that there are some agreements in this area to which we, as a party, naturally stick. What I mentioned in my speech is bizarre. The Danish People's Party is actually starting a very long journey. You start by making up for yourself the need to reform unemployment benefits, bring the Left and the Conservatives to the idea, implement it with the very brutal phasing-in and the drastic consequences it has. Then you repent afterwards and say that it might not have been so smart after all the Socialists have voted against it and it also turns out to be a pretty bad case for the Danish People's Party, and then you change your mind about it along the way and come up with some suggestions to illustrate that you repent very, very much. But what is really important here in the world is how the majority is composed in this Parliament after the next election, who sits at the top of the table, when the benefit commission has reported and hopefully an adjustment of the benefit reform needs to be made. And that is where the Danish People's Party seriously proposes that you put the same man who invented what you are now trying to change to do so, perhaps with a little help from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Joachim B. Olsen and others, who are not exactly those who think most of the unemployed in this country. I just don't understand!
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101504	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101506	That's funny. Who's at the end of the table now? It is Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt who went to the polls that if she was elected Prime Minister, this should be changed. So a majority would like to do so now, but they do not want to do so. The rapporteur also touched on the issue of the economy, where the money should come from, and I can then say that, and I would like to ask if the rapporteur can confirm that if you went down to 0.7 per cent. We are close to something similar to 13 billion of GNP in the area of development, i.e. the money we send out of the country. kr. By 2020, there will be revenue. If we look at the extra costs in the area of asylum, we will see that in the financial law that is now there is over 4 billion. kr. To handle it. You can then multiply that up to 2020, then you get very large numbers. Does the rapporteur not agree that the growth which the rapporteur stands on the platform and says has been in the public domain is based solely on the misguided policy pursued in the field of foreigners? That is where the costs lie. It is precisely not in the fact that there are more warm hands coming out in the municipalities. When you look at the figures of what the municipalities spend on an elderly, you will see that it has fallen steadily while this government has had government power. There has been less and less money for close welfare, and what you can see is that expenditure has exploded in the field of foreigners. I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101623	Again, these are two issues. I understand, sir. René Christensen will quickly move on to the benefit. It simply screams to heaven that you are now trying to tell people that the Folketing is starting again every day, and that there is a majority here because the Danish People's Party has changed its position, and then you could just change it. It's not like that. There are agreements in the government base, and we, as the government party, of course do. What is the chance, if you want to change the unemployment benefit reform, is the chance that you get when you go back to office and when you have to put together a new majority, and that recommends Mr. René Christensen and the Danish People's Party therefore that there should be a majority of parties who made the old unemployment benefit reform, which is now being criticised so much. I simply do not believe that the Danish People's Party really means that. They themselves invented the unemployment benefit reform at that time and will ask politicians who were behind it and who talk about the unemployed in a way that I could never get myself to do new audits of the unemployment benefit reform. Thinks sir. René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti believe that it will be better for the unemployed if Anders Samuelsen is to sit and whisper Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the ear when it comes to making a new allowance reform? That is what the Danish People's Party supports. I can see that I do not have much time to respond to the welfare issue, but only next year there will be almost 1 billion. kr. more to the local welfare by virtue of this Finance Act. That wouldn't have happened if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister and there was zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101742	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101744	The chairman of the Socialist Group has stated that the unemployment benefit reform is a mess. I think that was the wording. But you don't want to act on it. Nor can we be told in what direction the Socialists are going to take after an election or whether the Radicals are again allowed to block permanent improvements to the rules on unemployment benefits. It may well remain a secret to the electorate in the run-up to elections, but will the Socialists today, here, tell us what improvements can be expected to be made to the rules on daily allowances, even after elections, if we vote for the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101819	No, I do not have a clear proposal for a new unemployment benefit reform. Part of the meaning of making a benefit commission is that you turn over the many stones that are in that area and the very many opportunities that are available for screwing up that system. However, in our view, it must be a system of allowances which provides a much better guarantee for employees than where we have ended up now, when too many fall out. We want to avoid this situation, and the criticism, when the Socialists voted against the reform, went in the way that the recovery rules are. There is also an opportunity to discuss this. I think there is reason to acknowledge that this has again been done in the Finance Act of the SF, the Social Democrats and the other parties responsible for the Finance Act, that we are actually taking seriously, that an unemployment benefit reform has been carried out with a fairly strong phasing-in that hits a lot of people, and that we are taking several rounds and now again with this Finance Act measures that help some of those who get stuck. It shows a willingness to repair these things for the benefit of the unemployed, but Mr. Jonas Dahl knows as well as Mr. René Christensen that the majority situation is locked now. It is the situation after the next elections that is crucial, and hopefully it is not Lars Løkke Rasmussen who sits at the top of the table and does that reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101935	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217101937	Now there are plenty of quotes of what both Social Democrats and people from the SF said in 2010. We can dig into that, but I don't think that's very helpful. But we can also read that the radical President, the Deputy Prime Minister, says that there is no need for changes in the unemployment benefit reform. That is why it is reasonable to ask the Socialists what they are going to vote on. What do the Socialists want? It's okay, sir. Jesper Petersen says we'll talk about that after a choice. But it is reasonable enough to answer it and not just say that we can discuss it. What is the policy of the Socialists? What can we expect the Socialists to actually work for after an election? For example, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will vote against this report. add votes to an alternative daily allowance majority after a choice? That's a fair question. The Danish People's Party asked the same question. If there is a majority in the Assembly, what do the Socialists want? Are you going to allow the Radicals to block again?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102035	There will be no new answer to the question of whether I have a fixed and finished benefit system ready today or whether there will be one before the next election. But we have a clear direction, namely that we want an unemployment benefit system where fewer people fall out and which provides greater security for employees. It's quite obvious. We are very happy to discuss this, because we do not think that the unemployment benefit reform that was made at the time was good. We voted against it. Hopefully we will have the chance, after the next election, to make adjustments to it. However, this will be done in negotiations with those parties which, hopefully, can continue to be part of the government after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102119	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102123	Sir. Jesper Petersen is very concerned that public expenditure should constantly rise. They must be bigger and bigger each year, and that is what has happened in Danish history. If we go back to, for example... 1972, the year I was born, we see that public expenditure was 42 per cent. of GDP. Today they are about 55%. of GDP. But when I was born, I was born at the little Gram Hospital, which has since been shut down. I went to kindergarten, my aunt went to university, there were all kinds of public services, as there are today. Is Mr. Jesper Petersen agrees that public spending is not enough? They must also be used wisely. And is mr. Jesper Petersen agrees that it probably says so, at least the Government's Productivity Commission can be saved even substantial amounts of production in the public sector in Denmark without the service getting any worse? And is mr. Jesper Petersen does not agree that public service can also be significantly improved without necessarily becoming more expensive simply because there is an opportunity to streamline even quite a lot? The Government's Productivity Commission says that it can be made more efficient so that public production is 10%. cheaper without getting any worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102241	A specific figure of 10%. I can't sign it, but I totally agree with you. Ole Birk Olesen in that we must make sure to get the maximum out of the public crowns. I agree that it is possible to streamline and increase productivity. This is happening all the time, and this government too has a goal of modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector in the 2020 plan that has been put forward. We will then just use that benefit to actually improve the quality of the citizens of the welfare institutions they meet, and we also have some pretty powerful challenges ahead of us if we are to ensure that we still have a good welfare society. Time should not be turned back to how the welfare was a la 1972, where Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was, of course, fortunate enough that there had been some social democratic governments in advance that had begun to create a social democratic welfare society, so that you did not have to pay as much yourself, but so there was tax funding for various services. Fortunately, we have been working on that. We must do this in the future, and we must get what we can out of the crowns, quite openly, because it is about the quality of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102356	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102358	But I think that is a real and fair answer from Mr. Jesper Petersen. The public sector can be operated more cheaply and efficiently than it is today, and then you can discuss what this efficiency gain is to be spent on. Sir. Jesper Petersen's answer is that it must be used to deliver even more public welfare than is already being delivered today. Our answer is that when you streamline the public sector, we can do something about the fact that Denmark has the highest tax burden in the world, because we think that is actually a problem. That is real talk instead of what we often hear from the Socialists and the SF, that if you want to drive the public sector more effectively, you want to cut it down to the sock holders, and then there will be no welfare, people will not be able to go to the hospital, and then the old people will not be cared for and something like that. That's not true. We have the government's committee of experts saying that the public sector can operate better and cheaper for less money, and that was a real response from Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102500	I do not know whether there was a question on the way, but please allow me to comment that I think, therefore, that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has a very static perception of what welfare is then, because you stop somewhere and say. We can do something cheaper, and then we never have to do more. I mean, there's gonna be these years, for example. More older people. They must also have proper care in the future. I myself think it is too bad when you can still see stories about elderly people who have not had proper care, have been in the same diaper too many hours. We have to be able to do better than that. I think there are many points where we should invest if we have the opportunity. We are then trying to make ourselves more efficient in this area, and we are trying to ensure that part of the growth and economic space we have is used to improve the quality of our public sector. It's not standing still. After all, citizens also have the expectation that quality will increase as all sorts of other things improve around them. So you can't put it up, like mr. Ole Birk Olesen does, but if we've come as far as I've done, Ole Birk Olesen's day is good by saying that I think that you should get the maximum out of the tax dollars, I am kind of happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102613	Sir. Christian Juhl, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102616	Thank you. Now there is probably a parliamentary election before we have to discuss finance law again, and I think it is important to communicate clearly and unequivocally so that people understand what we mean. I myself believe that the unemployment benefit issue will be a very central issue for the left or centre-left, depending on where the Socialists see themselves. Therefore, I do not understand that when the government insists that the cash benefits in 2015 cover somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000, it should cost 610 million. kr. There were a few of my friends who were not so born yesterday and who are actually used to working with numbers and sitting in an a-box that asked me: How can it be done to spend 610 million? kr. of approx. 3,000 unemployed for 3 months • that is, they each have to have approx. 70,000 kroner. a month? Then I said: yes, I asked that too; I even asked the Finance Minister himself how to calculate such things. Could the rapporteur help me with that? Well, now we've heard a lot about that darklight that turns on, and then you can't see anything. But could we not try to turn off the darklight for a moment and then get an explanation of how it could cost 610 million. kr. in 2015 to make a cash benefit for 3,000 people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102735	After all, the calculation and others that lie behind the Finance Act are made entirely in the usual way, which is always calculated, and which Enhedslisten is aware of, since you have been sitting around the same table. We have made sure that we can afford to meet the costs we need and ensure that we do not break the limits we have set on how much money we think it is responsible to spend. I am glad that we have been able to find an agreement with the Enhedslisten to make this cash allowance, to help some of the people who otherwise get stuck, but also that the Finance Act continues the economic policy that provides more jobs, and that is certainly so important. That must be the primary purpose. There, too, we must be able to meet the costs of public investment and of implementing the growth plans for which the government has taken the initiative and obtained a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102831	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102833	I didn't understand anything about that. I simply asked: according to the draft budget, cash benefits cost 610 million. kr., and that includes 3,000 people. It doesn't add up. It has nothing to do with employment, the start-up of work, etc. etc. to do. We can also take another figure if the rapporteur does not want to discuss that figure. In the case of emergency jobs, it was expected that it would provide emergency jobs for 12,500 people. It gave emergency jobs to 300-400. We set aside 180 million. kr., and we haven't even spent 8 million. kr. People can't understand why we're budgeting so loosely. Well, a finance bill is a budget for next year. Why on earth can't you be more precise? So why can't highly educated officials and a very, very talented finance minister find a way to say the figures more precisely, especially when we point out that those figures are not true? I have pointed out several times that the 610 million. kr. Never gonna fit. Everyone would want to be on cash if you could get that much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217102943	Well, Enhedslisten has himself sat in the room and sat with the technical prerequisites in front of him. If you want a longer technical analysis of how these things are calculated, you are welcome to ask for it. I'm sure the Treasury can deliver that. Our political task is to ensure that we stay within the framework that we have agreed to and find responsible for the Danish economy and that we saw within it among other things. implement this cash benefit and a series of welfare policy measures: health, care for the elderly, inclusion in primary school, day care etc. We therefore remain below the ceilings that we have agreed. Doing so is of course very important because it maintains a high level of confidence in the Danish economy and ensures that the interest rates are enormously low for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103034	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103039	A great many people are still worried about losing their jobs, and we can see that with the budget bill there are no growth initiatives; there is nothing that guarantees jobs. The craftsman's allowance is being removed, and in the growth estimate for next year and the last ten preliminary growth estimates that have come, ten times so far, it does not seem to be particularly positive either. The December economic report thus sets out two steps, either a positive one or a negative one. What is it that makes the government and the Socialists believe that growth will be achieved when the main argument in the economic statement is that we will probably see a continued slowdown in Europe and that it will have a negative impact on growth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103135	After all, modest growth is expected this year, too modest growth, in relation to what I would like and a slightly larger next year, and that is not something the government alone is assessing. After all, the same assessment comes to both the wise men and the banks, the National Bank, and others who make these estimates. So it is not the case that the government here is completely different from those who make the other estimates, not at all. In fact, the government has been among those who have hit the closest when you look at it over the years, it is factually correct. But it is because it is difficult to predict the future that there is this situation in relation to the Economic Statement. But when it comes to content, i.e. the question of jobs, I simply disagree completely with Mai Mercado in describing the situation. Since April of last year, nearly 40,000 more people have been working ~ 38,000, I believe that the figure is quite accurate. 38,000 more Danes have got a job to get up to in the morning, not only because of our economic policy, but also because of our economic policy, and this happens even though there is relatively little growth. There are, among other things: the oil and gas extraction, which you otherwise like to talk about, which draws down in the figures, but in the industries where jobs are actually created, this development is taking place, which means that so many more people have come into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103248	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103249	But what exactly is the challenge here is that every time we have downgraded our expectations of growth and that it has not turned into the growth we were hoping for, and there we can just see in the economic statement that if we once again downgrade our expectations of it, that is what is called a negative process, then it will cost jobs. After all, we are entering an election year, and that is where I just think it is to blind the eyes of those voters who believe that there will be a recovery when what they are really looking forward to is losing their jobs, because the government has chosen not to introduce any growth initiatives that create jobs, with the financial bill that the government will vote through.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103332	I simply do not know whether Mrs Mai Mercado has prepared for this discussion and read the draft budget and has found out what is actually being implemented with it. For what lies in it is, after all, the implementation of the growth plans that we have agreed on, among other things. together with the Conservative People's Party. What does that mean in concrete terms? This means that on 1 January there will again be more taxes, both for people and companies that are relieved, different conditions in relation to rules and bureaucracy, which will change and make it easier to operate. There will be an economic policy that continues to make interest rates low, a policy that means that there are large public investment that translates directly into private jobs. So it is simply a completely wrong picture that Mrs Mai Mercado draws from reality and from what lies in this draft budget. Those who have to be afraid of losing their jobs are the many people in the public sector who are at risk of being fired when pursuing zero growth or minus growth policies, as you would like on this side of the House; they are the ones who are in danger of losing their jobs. Underneath us, 40,000 more jobs have been coming in since April of last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103437	Thank you. As a service information, I hope that if the speaking time is respected there will be time for questions from Torsten Schack Pedersen, Jacob Jensen, Peter Skaarup, Pia Olsen Dyhr and Louise Schack Elholm. It's Torsten Schack Pedersen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103457	Thank you. Just as a service information in relation to some of the debate, I should like to inform you that when you ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior what happened to the municipal service costs per year. In 2011 they were DKK 45,104, while in 2014 they were DKK 41,623. It's just obvious. I do not think that the Socialist rapporteur will say that there has been a welfare sactress. But it's just to get it right. But you can understand that if you drive with a public spending stop, thousands of employees will have to be fired. That is the happy message of the Social Democratic Party. I would just like to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur can explain what is in the Economic Statement, because when you look up Table 1.2 and see the forecast for 2016, you can see that the government is operating with a growth in public consumption of 0.1%, but if 0.0%. Gives thousands of fired employees, I'm excited to hear how many a growth of 0.1 percent. Gives. But the answer is to my big surprise, contrary to what else you hear, it's zero. That's what it says further down in the table. There will be neither more nor fewer public employees with a public consumption growth of 0.1%. So I shall just hear the rapporteur: is that what the Economic Statement says that we should count on is the message, or is that the message that the Socialist rapporteur raises is true?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103629	Numbers are grateful, and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen can of course try to find someone who fits into a template that is about not wanting to face the consequences of the Left's zero growth policy. This can then be tried from here to the next elections instead of having a real discussion about what the consequences are. Next year, with what has been proposed in the Finance Act, a few thousand more public employees will be able to afford it 3,000 or 4,000 more but there would be fewer if there were zero growth in the public sector. So what you have to stick to is what lies in all the answers given to the Committee on Finance, which I am sure Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen follows in the projections of developments up to 2020, which is approx. a difference of 28,000 civil servants between 2014 and 2020. What exactly is going to be, and exactly how many more will be, if this government continues, I can't say, but the difference is going to be this 28,000, that's what's in the economic projection. You could then discuss whether you think it's good or bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103733	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103735	Figures are grateful, says the rapporteur. But then just trying to relate to reality would be a step forward. When you listen to the Socialist rapporteur, it seems as if so much fantastic has happened. And I would like to praise and say that something amazing has happened, because the public sector is actually going a little further on the liter now than it did earlier. There are 11 000 fewer employees in the municipalities, and I do not hear that this is an expression of a welfare sacchar, and that the welfare society has been bombed back to the Stone Age. It must be because the public sector has been made to go a little further in the liter. And the government should not be criticized for that. It is to be commended for this, but it is in stark contrast to what we went to in the election. Therefore, it is also only interesting, because when you ask the government what a public consumption growth in 2016 of 0.1 per cent. means, then, the answer is that it means an unchanged number of public employees, but how will the rapporteur be credible in saying that, if you keep doing so, it will suddenly turn into a minus, but in 2016 nothing will happen? Honestly, everyone can hear that there is no connection in those statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103842	The real discussion about developments in the public sector is not that we are hiding, and we have actually discussed this in this Chamber before the fact that the municipal economy is very tight in these years. There's a lot of running out there. I would not deny that there are some citizens who think that it is not as good as it has been. However, there has not been zero growth in the public sector, but growth in the regions and in the state, because more people are being trained, and we bear the cost of this because we improve the health service by approximately 4 000 to 5 000 more people, because there is an opportunity to improve the treatment and you have the opportunity to bear the cost of new and more expensive medicines. This is because there has not been zero growth in the public sector. Next year there will be 15 billion. kr. in the public sector, they would not have been there if there had been zero growth in the public sector. It is not a promise of gold and green forests, and it is not an expression of the fact that it flows with milk and honey, but of the fact that there is a possibility of making quality improvements, which are also included in this budget law, which could not be done with zero growth. What I am just calling for is that the Left will really stand for it and take an honest debate on it. They won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103954	Sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217103956	Now the rapporteur was so witty to include Jullerup Færgeby in his speech, and it should not be left in the dark. That is why I would like to take another classic quote from Jullerup Færgeby, which actually describes very precisely the growth of the Danish economy and the outstanding promises of the Socialists, namely: it sits firmly. ▪ Growth is firm, and promises that have not been fulfilled must also be settled. For it must be understood that before the last elections it was promised that now prosperity would flourish, which would be 12 billion. kr. extra to the municipalities there were no limits to all the milk and honey that were to flow in the streets. But the cheque promised to the mayors out in the mayor's offices has been replaced by giro cards. That's what fell into the letterbox out in the mayor's offices. Now, Mr. Knox... Jesper Petersen speaks so much about not starting an experiment of cost-stop zero growth, as you call it, I would say that it is not an experiment; it is a tried and tested setup. After all, there has just been a stop to expenditure, in fact a minus growth, in the municipalities over the last three years. That is why I would just like to ask: Jesper Petersen does not confirm that today there are about 11,000 fewer full-time jobs in the municipalities than there were in 2011, as a result of the minus growth that Mr. Jesper Petersen's government has been in effect for the last three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104115	This is, of course, a continuation of the discussion I just had with Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. It is quite true that there is a very tight economy in the municipalities, and since a historic peak in 2010, there have also been fewer employees in the municipalities. That's right. However, there has been no zero growth in the public sector and we have been able to improve health care, education and other areas because we had the opportunity to meet those costs. That money wouldn't have been there if it had been zero growth. You'd have 15 billion. kr. less in the municipalities next year, if the Left should have incurred the same expenses. So it's not a proven setup. What has been tried out is that there has been zero growth in the municipalities, not in the overall public sector. In the municipalities it has been tight, and I think you can feel it out there. Anything else would be lying. Of course you can. But there has not been zero growth. Is it stuck? Well, the growth figures had to lift up; they are growing a little now and will be even higher next year; it evaluates all those who observe Danish economy. What is not fixed is employment, i.e. that these nearly 40 000 more people have entered work since April of last year. This is important to us, and that is why we have pursued a policy aimed at getting more people into work, and we have succeeded in doing so, and we are well prepared to continue it. Competitiveness will be better, we have a sound economic policy that keeps interest rates low and, at the same time, we can pursue a welfare policy that is completely different from that of the Left, but which we are constantly refusing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104245	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104247	I am really grateful for the answer, because I think we have actually received an admission there. The rapporteur now says for the first time, I think, that in the municipalities where, after all, there are some tasks that are being solved and that people can feel in everyday life, such as in the United Kingdom. child care, elderly services and primary school, which are core welfare benefits, have been zero growth under the current government. That is not quite true, because there has actually been minus growth, but it should not separate us. That is why I think we should be clear: does the rapporteur agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who, in reply to me in the Committee on Finance, said that even with a stop to expenditure, even with zero growth in the municipalities, it has actually been seen that the service has improved? He has actually said that in priority areas it has been considerably better than it was before this minus growth regime was introduced. Is Mr. Jesper Petersen agrees with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior in that assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104344	I agree that things can be made more efficient and smarter, and the public employees who have done so for many years must be commended for doing so. However, I do not agree that it will go unnoticed over our welfare society if you start driving with permanent zero growth throughout the public sector at all. And the Left itself warned against it when one was in government; it simply could not be done without the deterioration of the core welfare it was a quote from the Left's own publications from when one was in government. What about next year? What we are dealing with today is the discussion on the Finance Act. There will be about 1 billion. kr. more to drive local welfare for: cutting cards for the elderly, more educators in the day institutions, a little more to solve the inclusion task in the primary school, more to health in the regions. That is what will happen next year, i.e. that there will be about 1 billion. kr. More in the municipalities, but what the Left is proposing is that there should be 1.5 billion. kr. less. If we had a majority in favour of this tonight, even if the municipal budgets had been agreed, we would vote for the municipalities to have just over 1 billion. kr. less next year, and then you had to start finding that money. That would then be 11.7 million. kr. in Mr. Peter Christensen's municipality, the same amount with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in Køge, and Mrs Inger Løbberg and the people in Skive could start trying to find just under 10 million. kr. Well, get to work and tell me where they're wasting all that money today if you can provide the same public service for the amount that the Left is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104516	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104519	Thank you. After all, one of the quite large expenditures in the Finance Act is asylum expenditure, and that has given rise to a lot of discussion, even today, when the radical leader says that the so-called austerity that is under way does not really mean so much, because what is going to happen is that the refugees in question, above all Syrian refugees, are going to stay in Denmark for many years. That is why I would like to ask what the government will do, because we have a situation now that the government has relaxed its foreign policy in a whole range of areas, among others. so that a refugee family can count on 10,000 kroner. more a month, on average, because the government has relaxed its foreign policy. On top of that, it is also the case that the rules are now being relaxed in order to receive a national pension, so that refugees will have better opportunities to have a full old-age pension in the long term. All this means more expenditure; it means, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, signals to the traffickers that we have a lenient foreign policy in Denmark. What does the government intend to do about it? Isn't that a question the government is concerned with at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104638	When there are so desperately many refugees as there are now, I suppose, the largest number since World War II, it also forces us to deal with that situation. We are doing a lot to help in the neighbourhood, as we always do, and some refugees are coming up to us too. Those who then come here and have the right to be here, we think we should treat them properly and talk about them properly. Some of them may also have the opportunity to be here for so long that they simply stay here, for that is how honest talk will be. I don't think we can figure it out. But what we are doing right now by the government is the opposite of what Mr. Peter Skaarup is talking about. The government does not have the Government trying to introduce a temporary residence permit for some who are generally persecuted instead of individually persecuted. We have proposed this a long time ago, but it is difficult to get through here in the Folketing. We're still trying to do that. We think that would be a sensible way to deal with it. This will mean that the number we accept is more to deal with for us. But those who then come here and have the right to be here, we also think we should treat them properly. We also think that if it is the case that you have fled from personal persecution under some cruel regime or dictatorship somewhere and reside in Denmark and become a pensioner here, then you should actually be able to live properly as old as old.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104809	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104812	I would like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur agrees with the radical leader who has said that this does not actually have the consequence that someone can be sent back after a year. This means that those concerned will remain in Denmark for many years. That's what he's predicting. The second question is: is the Socialist rapporteur not aware that there are asylum shoppers around Europe? We have received a great many refugees in Denmark • an increasing number of boats in 2012, after the government joined, in 2013 and now in 2014. Do we not at all realise that the conditions under which refugees live in Denmark can have an impact on the number of refugees who come here? After all, the traffickers are very well aware of what is happening in Denmark. We can see this at this weekend's reports, where the police say that we know very precisely what the living conditions are for refugees in Denmark. So I would like to hear from the government whether it will affect the conditions. Will the start-up aid be reinstated, which meant that you had to live with a slightly lower performance? Will you look at the conditions for a retirement pension that is now being relaxed? If nothing is done, it is all a sign that we are pursuing a lax policy in Denmark because living conditions are improving for refugees in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217104932	The essential thing must be to have a discussion about what the rules really are for you to be able to stay. And there is the concrete thing we are in the process of, of course, adjusting the rules so that those who are generally persecuted and not individually persecuted can have a temporary right to be in Denmark. That's what we're trying to get through with, and it's part of dealing with this discussion. But Mr. Peter Skaarup must also relate to the fact that, when there are so desperately many millions of refugees in Europe, that means something to us too. If you take those numbers, sir. Peter Skaarup mentioned, it is, after all, the first few years minimal what happens from development. That is where it really explodes in Syria, and that is where it starts to go very fast. So no, we do not want to reinstate the poverty benefits that caused poverty to increase continuously during the time when the Danish People's Party supported a bourgeois government and when ordinary families saw their children growing up in a situation where they were cut off from having the same opportunities as other families' children. That's what happened, among other things. was the consequence of the Danish People's Party's policy at that time. However, we would like to discuss whether we can make a sensible tightening of the asylum rules. The government is actually trying to do that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105046	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105048	After all, the unemployment allowance issue was a theme during the financial law negotiations, and the Social Democrats voted against the unemployment benefit reform back in 2010 together with the SF. That is why I also think it is important to know what we will get after the elections. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the Socialist Group in the European Parliament can imagine leading a government which does not deliver improvements in the area of unemployment benefits, in other words does not shorten the recovery period or the coverage period.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105118	I am not in a position to write the government base in advance, but I can say quite clearly that when the Socialists have set up a daily allowance commission and ask it to deal with the very many elements of the benefit system, it is of course because we have an intention to want to discuss it again. We were opposed when the unemployment benefit reform was made in its time, and in the meantime, together with the SF, we have taken steps to ensure that a great many people, thousands of people who would otherwise have been out of income or in a very, very difficult situation, actually have an income and manage, while at the same time having a policy that gets more people into work. So I can't give a complete benefit system after the election, but just repeat that when there's this discussion at all, it's because we don't think we're done looking at it. That is why we must also hope that it is still a social democrat who sits at the top of the table when new adjustments to the unemployment benefit reform are to be made, and not a citizen with the support of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105218	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105221	If we now imagine, as some of us in the centre-left hope, that the government will be allowed to continue and the Radicals then categorically oppose improvements in the field of unemployment benefits. It is not once seen, it has been seen many times, that it could then be imagined that the Social Democratic Party looked at the majority that is actually in the Folketing and therefore already exists today, and yet implemented benefits improvements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105251	I took note of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's statement that at least some in the centre-left want the government to continue. I understood it as if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr wanted it. I sometimes get the feeling that not everyone cares what color the government really is, because this is supposed to be so horrible. I don't see it that way. However, it will hopefully be the case after the elections that there is a majority on the left, so it is a social democrat who sits at the top of the table when you get the work of the benefit commission and have to have a new discussion about the benefit system. But I do not have such a ready proposal on how it should be put together, but a political desire for it to be safer and more secure for employees and for fewer people to fall out of the system. The fact that the recovery requirement was tightened up, as it did at the time, was also one of the reasons why the Socialists voted against it. So I do not have a complete system for the debate on the budget here, but I am preparing to have negotiations on it, and that will also involve the participation of the Radical Left, which will hopefully be part of a continued government after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105401	The last question is Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105403	Thank you. I have to say that this is very much the same picture that was before the last election, where you promise gold and green forests, then we have to see how much it is going to be when it really comes down to it. The Finance Act is yet another picture of it, where you promise a lot of things that you do not finance. Let me just give you one example: with the financial law agreement, the government has decided that a full national pension should be granted to all refugees. In the past, the government has estimated that it will cost 90 million. kr. a year in the short and medium term. It's been financed by the government at 7.1 million. kr. in 2015 increasing to 14.6 million. kr. in 2018. All I'm asking is where's the rest of the 76-83 million? kr. So come from? For them, the government hasn't financed this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105457	Louise Schack Elholm can make sure that the measures provided for in the Finance Act are funded. And when you estimate the cost in this area in these years, that is what you estimate it will cost. Money has been set aside to make the improvements in care for the elderly that we are talking about, in the day institutions, inclusion in primary school, in health care, all the things you can, because there is no zero growth, which Mrs Schack Elholm is in favour of. Says we're not gold and green forests. There will still be a tight economy in the municipalities and public growth rates will be far from where they have been in the past. This is how the economic situation is for Denmark, but there is room for improvement. They are fully funded every year, and that is more than what can be said about the Left, which does not present an honest economic plan for the years to come and cannot even present a budget bill for a year that is linked. You are nowhere near being able to match the things that the government can now do to improve cancer treatment, the treatment of chronic diseases, the quality of the maternity wards, not nearby because you want zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105600	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105602	It is of course very remarkable that time is spent throwing mud instead of actually answering the question. A commitment of between 76 and 83 million has been underfinanced. kr. in the short term. It is quite a lot of money that is lacking, and even if you let it increase with those 1.1 per cent, which I think growth is increasing by next year, I do not think it can finance the 76-83 million. kr. So where does the money from that which has not been financed in the draft budget come from for the retirement of refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105634	There is funding for the actions that are in the Finance Act. By the way, public growth next year is 1.5%. and not 1.1%. I was actually trying to deal with the real issue and not go to anything like mud throwing, I was trying to put up what the political difference really is. I don't want to do that, but it is therefore Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who is going around saying that the birth rate has fallen because of the government's failure to promise. It has simply caused the laughter to spread across the whole country. So far has the Left come that instead of discussing the real political differences and content, you start on such things. It is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who throws mud in the debate instead of dealing with the differences. The Finance Act's actions have been financed all the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217105733	Thank you for that, President. The Finance Act for 2015 has, after all, been negotiated, and today we are rationalizing how things have turned out, but already at the time of the publication of the Finance Act in August the Minister for Finance was out clearly stating that he would like to see an agreement with Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, and in the course of the process that also came, the picture became clearer and clearer, and we also know the result today. In fact, the Danish People's Party would have liked there to have been a real negotiation process with the government, but as we could see, we were at a single set meeting and were unfortunately never convened again. As news, the government had set aside 1.5 billion in its draft budget. kr., as those who were to be part of the parties to the agreement could lead to more and better welfare, and this was an initiative which the Danish People's Party welcomed very much, and we had also been looking forward to negotiating on that. We can then see that the intentions regarding the use of the 1.5 billion. kr. Been good. Some proposals have also come out of what seems to be very sympathetic at first sight. Among other things: there has been a strengthening of efforts against overcrowding in hospitals, strengthening prevention in municipalities, action against vulnerable families, cutting cards for the elderly, raising the day-to-day supply and measures against social dumping • all good headlines that the Danish People's Party could also have been part of. But what is the result that we have? Unfortunately, good intentions have been overtaken by the failed policy pursued in the field of foreigners. The economy for the good initiatives is simply not there. The investments in welfare have been completely overshadowed by the significant expenditure in the area of asylum resulting from the massive influx of asylum seekers in 2014. Total expenditure is estimated to be over 4 billion. kr., for which the government has had to find new funding in the Finance Act for 2015. It is money that could have gone to, for example, extra boosts in the area of the elderly and in the area of health. Moreover, in the 2015 Finance Act, welfare initiatives have also become as small as they can be. The parties to the agreement have chosen to shoot the vast majority of initiatives for after 2015 and further into the future, e.g. only 50 million will be set aside. kr. in 2015 to combat overcrowding in the Danish hospitals. It was a purpose that should otherwise be that there should be far fewer patients in the corridors. This, of course, has also led to justified criticism from among others. The Medical Association and Danske Patients, who estimate that 50 million. kr. is far too little in 2015 to carry out that task. The government has also chosen to ensure more educators in the day institutions, a good case that the Danish People's Party would also like to support, and that sounds very good, but when we look at what it is going to be, it means, overall, that 0.002 additional educators are added per year. child in the institutions. It is neither serious nor targeted. The government has also chosen to downgrade the benefit area by rejecting a halving of the recovery requirement, which could otherwise have helped many unemployed Danes and given peace of mind so that the benefit commission could have the opportunity to work. It is still incomprehensible that SF and Enhedslisten chose to give up the obvious demand that they had the opportunity to obtain support for the Danish People's Party as well. It was precisely to correct the situation that we have now and it could have given hope to the many citizens who are now being affected. The Danish People's Party looks with concern at the government's priorities and management of the economy. In addition to the explosive asylum costs that await in the future, the government has chosen to postpone a large number of other major expenditures until after the forthcoming parliamentary elections. The government's economic policy already ranks at a level which is close to the EU's border on government deficits and which can, at worst, put Denmark in a very difficult economic situation. Interestingly, it is also that the government in the Economic Statement clearly describes the challenges facing the future. Firstly, the future money has been used to bring forward the taxation of Danish pensions. Similarly, it is also interesting to look at the growth of public consumption. Here the government is setting a growth rate of 0.1 per cent. After 2015, and it is certainly not so far from zero growth that has been discussed in this Chamber today. But that is really, really far away from what was said, where the Socialists went to the elections for a growth of 1.4. However, there is room for growth in the current year, and so there is in 2015, and there will also be growth in 2015 above the promised 1.4. You actually reach a growth of 1.5. But the growth must be seen in a completely different light with a quote from the Economic Statement: which among other things. to be seen in the light of the temporarily higher public spending on asylum in 2015... Now it has also come to light here today that the government, with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior at the forefront, says that the expenses will not stop in the future; they will not stop in 2016. The citizens who come to Denmark now and get a stay are not going home. They must be integrated, and they must be integrated from day one, even though a bill has been passed through the Danish Parliament, which is trying to deceive both us in the Parliament hall and other politicians will mean something else. But now the government does not believe that the bill will have the desired effect, which is why it can be expected that growth in 2016 will be higher than 0.1%. But what is it that growth is to be used for? It must be used in the area of asylum, which means that the money that is not present must be found in the area of welfare. I think it is great that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior tells us about the government's policy openly and honestly • the policy pursued in the field of foreigners will lead to cuts, even after 2016. After all, we all know that the abolition of the start-up aid by the government has meant that an average refugee family is now on a total annual income, including subsidies, of more than DKK 450,000. And as part of the Finance Act, the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten have also decided on full national pensions for asylum seekers who have been granted residence permits. And when you add it all together, you have to say: why on earth should you expect the flow to fall when you have a set of rules that are so advantageous? I understand that people choose to travel more than 5,000 km • it is not to the nearest neighbouring country to take part in the gifts that are being distributed under this government. There is no doubt that it is not the people who are wrong; it is the rules that are wrong with something. The Danish People's Party would have liked to see a genuine elderly billion allocated to the elderly area in the municipalities now that we can see that the government's older billion from the former Finance Act may not get the impact that one would have liked to have seen. However, we fully recognise that this was a very, very positive proposal and we are pleased that the extra money has been put in the municipalities. The Danish People's Party would also have liked to see health guaranteed with an extra boost of equivalent 1 billion. kr., among others. to combat overcrowding in general in hospitals and to ensure production kitchens, which we can see shortcomings in several of the super hospitals. And then we would have liked to see more attention given to prevention in the municipalities, so that the many re-hospitals that exist could be avoided. In our proposal, the Danish People's Party had also provided funds for halving the recovery requirement in the area of unemployment benefits. We would also have liked to have seen a pool in the legal field, and the Danish People's Party had also provided funds to continue the housing job scheme in order to maintain the many jobs and, in particular, apprenticeships that we can see that it has provided out there. What we can see in the inventory is that we are talking about over 400 apprenticeships that have been created on this agenda, while at the same time it is also the ordinary Dane who is ordering the local craftsman. In other words, it has not been large-scale public procurement carried out by cheap Eastern European labour force. No, it has been the close thing that has just been enjoyed by the fact that we have had the housing job scheme that we know today. We're sorry it can't go on. How do we finance it? We finance that, among other things. By reducing development aid and normalising the territory of foreigners, in particular: by introducing start-up aid, and by using fewer consultants in the public sector, etc. etc. With our proposal to go down to 0.7%. of GNP we will be in a very, very exclusive club. There are only four other countries in the world that have the high level, which is called 0.7%, but we are talking about an income or a lower cost, depending on how you take it to about 13 billion. kr. Until 2020. It is the case that the Danish People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the Finance Act, and I look forward to the debate we are going to have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110657	We'll get it. There are a number of questioners first. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110702	Thank you. It's a really, really good day today. It is because Mr. Peter Skaarup was supposed to defend all the unfunded wishes that DF is constantly making, and there he has said: all that you can count on is what we will be included in the draft Finance Act. In addition, there is free play for wishes, even if they are not financed or implemented. This means that today is the one day of the year that we can take the wishes of the Danish People's Party seriously. Then it is that at the summer group meeting on 6 August Mr. Peter Skaarup: That is why we propose that we give real freedom of choice to those who have to use the public system in terms of digitalisation and electronic mail. But that is not in the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party. So that is to say, it is one of these requests that is not being financed, which is not being implemented, since it has not really been included in the amendment. Or how should you deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110802	We have to deal with this in such a way that, when we look at it, we are not afraid of digitalisation. That is what is happening. But what we also see is that there is a group of citizens who find it incredibly difficult to understand the rules and regulations that have been made today about digitalisation, based on shell. The problem is that there is also an opportunity for one to be exempted, but that is not a real possibility. So what we are talking about here when we talk about digitisation is, in fact, much more content and political approach than economics. It is the case that, of course, there is also an economy in relation to digitalisation. But what we have today is in fact that there is no possibility of exemption. This is a political discussion, more than an economic discussion. But if it is the case that the Social Democratic Party is open to taking it, I would just like to say that this is one of the times I have stood in the Chair, where I am very happy to have a debate with the Social Democratic Party if what this may end up in is that we find a sensible solution so that those citizens who do not own a computer, those citizens who are older, who are unable to understand how to do so, have a real opportunity to get in touch with the public in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110907	Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110908	But all this is very good, but it's just words. For Peter Skaarup said the following to BT on 24 November: there will be funding when we make a proposal for the financial law negotiations. But there has been no proposal, and this costs money, so you can easily stand by and say you want what the rapporteur is saying now. But obviously, when you do not want to finance it, it must be a matter of free play; it must be a matter of something that cannot be financed, something that cannot be realized. For me, this is purely electoral, just like all the other 180 billion. kr., and what kind of weird, weird things the Danish People's Party wants. This is the one day a year you're in work clothes, guys. Come on. It's one day a year where we can actually take you seriously. Come on, tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217110957	Now I am very worried. If it costs money, that there is an elderly citizen today who says that he or she does not want to be a part of the digital system in relation to the public sector, then we say that there must be a real opportunity not to be. Then it costs money. In other words, we recognise that today's opportunity is not real. Because it will cost money if you are allowed to make it real. I think that was a concession that came from the Social Democratic Party. If today a citizen is given the opportunity to say: I do not want to be a part of digital Denmark, I do not have a computer, I do not have the skills to do that and we say that it must also be real, then the citizen must have the opportunity to choose it completely from. It'll cost money. After all, it is now a confession case that those who today have an opportunity to opt out of digital do not really have the opportunity to do so. I would say that it was good that it was stated that if we are to have a real opportunity, money must be set aside for it, and the proposal that lies, what is running today, is not working in that way. We really have something to work on in the coming parliamentary year too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111058	Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111101	Thank you. It is certainly good that we are more members of parliament who can ask questions, because it is absolutely amazing to listen to this. The rapporteur is well aware that the system we have today makes it possible to ask for exemption. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to confirm that what the Danish People's Party is proposing is something else when Peter Skaarup and he can nod if he wishes; he sits right next to the Danish People's Party saying: That is why we propose that we give a really free choice for those who have to use the public system in terms of digitisation and electronic mail. Is it a different system from that which exists today, or is it not a different system from that which exists today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111144	What exists today is, of course, that when citizens are offered to be connected digitally in contact with the public, they are told that there is now a choice; they can be exempted if, for example, they do not have a computer. Then the citizen says: then I choose that solution. Are you exempt from having digital contact with the public? No, you're not. There are still things that need to be done digitally. There we are just saying: when people are told that they have an opportunity to be exempted, then they must have an opportunity to be exempted, and there is no such thing. Then I would like to ask how much it costs. 'Cause that's when you tell people something. Then Camilla must say: when we tell people that they can be exempted, they are not really exempt anyway. If they are to be properly exempted, additional money must be set aside in the Finance Act. Don't go out and tell the public that they have a choice to be in digital contact with the public or not. Today, there is really no choice. But that's what they say there is. We just think you should live by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111251	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111252	You have an opportunity today to be exempted from electronic mail, if that is what you want, but you have to ask actively for it. I understand the rapporteur's speech that the Danish People's Party will go much further, and then it is reasonable to ask why the Danish People's Party, in its amendments to the Finance Act, does not finance a proposal which is notoriously going to be very, very expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111319-2	If you do not have the opportunity to get digital mail, e-mail, where you get payrolls and other things and pensions, and you use the argument that you do not have a computer, or that you do not understand the system and do not want to have contact with the public digitally, then you can be exempted from having that contact. But if you have to get in touch with the public, for example, order a driving licence or something else, then we can see that you still have to have contact with the public electronically. One has just been told that one can get a derogation because one does not manage the system, one does not have a computer. We simply say that citizens do not understand that communication from the municipality can come on paper because you do not have a reception system, but communication the other way must be done electronically. But you still don't have that system skills or a computer. There we simply say: you cannot say to the citizens that there is an opportunity to be dispensed from having this contact when the citizens really cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111429	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111431	We're gonna revolve around this with the funding. Sir. Søren Espersen proposes, on 24 November, in the Berlingske Tidende, that the State make compensation for losses incurred by companies for a period of three years if trade sanctions are introduced. It is related to the international turmoil that is now and the situation around Russia. In other words, the State makes compensation for losses incurred by companies for a period of three years. Does the rapporteur agree with that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111502	The Danish People's Party fully agrees that we are in a very, very unusual situation where these sanctions have been imposed on Russia. And we can see that it will have many economic consequences for Danish business, especially when we look at our food industry. We are in such a situation that this is not a Danish problem, it is an EU problem. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister for Food we have is also working on whether we can do something about buying and other things to avert the situation that we have. What Søren Espersen is out with here is among other things. The fact that we cannot wait for the EU system, if an agreement is reached, to start paying for this over several years. There we would like it to be the Member States that are part of the agreement when that agreement is in place, and it would probably be all 28 who pay out at the forefront and then receive the reimbursement from the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111554	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111556	Why does Mr. Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti such things if you don't mean it? In other words, what he says is that the state is the state, there is not all sorts of other compensation for the company's losses for a period of 3 years. And if it is proposed that the state should provide compensation, I am surprised that I do not see the proposal from the Danish People's Party's amendments to the Finance Act on which we are due to vote today. Does this mean that it is not a concrete proposal from the Danish People's Party anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111636	In any case, I would say that this is not a cost-effective proposal. Because if the rapporteur had listened before, he would have heard that I said that this is a proposal in which the state is putting the money out after an agreement with the EU system, in which the amount is then refunded from the EU system. That is what the proposal we have made, that is to say, of course an agreement has to be reached. This is not a Danish problem. This is an EU problem, and that is why it must also be solved in the European Union, but of course we must not have this slow system, which will have to take several years before the claims that will be paid out in this agreement, which may be in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111713	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111716	The Danish People's Party has supported a halving of the recovery requirement for daily allowances, so it will again be 6 months. Will the Danish People's Party, after an election, also vote on a proposal to halve the recovery requirement if a majority can be formed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111734	We still think away until the commission finishes their work... that this would have been the right thing to do. This would have provided an opportunity to calm down both politically and in the hands of those who are about to lose their daily allowance. They would be able to enter the labour market more quickly and thus, if they take part-time or other jobs or take seasonal work, come back without having to have these challenges with cash benefits and other things. So, yes, this may be a solution, until the Commission makes their recommendations, and we will of course vote in favour of this today, and we will vote in favour of this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111810	Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111811	Just to be absolutely sure that we are clear, because I really think we have come along the way now: if, after an election, there should be a majority in favour of halving the recovery requirement, will the Danish People's Party continue to vote in favour, regardless of the composition of the Parliament that may sit after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111830	Until the commission finishes their work, we believe that you should have looked at the recovery period, i.e. the six months, instead of spending the money on what has been done in this Finance Act. The amounts are actually similar. That's how when you look at it, what it costs to do it is kind of the same thing. Yes, we will today, we will tomorrow, we will after an election, until the commission makes their recommendations, vote in favour. But I am not standing here saying that when the commission makes their recommendations, we will not even look at what the Commission says. We're just saying that this thing with the six months was what we had as a proposal to calm down until the commission comes up with their recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111909	The next brief remark is from Mr. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111912	Let's keep this up. What is the position of the Danish People's Party that a person cannot get a job, is not offered any work? Should he not then receive compensation for loss of earnings, i.e. the daily allowance, money that you can live for? Is this not a fundamental principle which the Danish People's Party can endorse?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217111944-2	No, if the Enhedslisten were asked whether the Danish People's Party is in favour of some citizen's salary forever, I would say that we are opposed to it. We are in favour of having a safety net of value, and it is incredibly important that we have a safety net of value for the individual. It is important for those who step out of the labour market that they can maintain a certain standard that you should not sell house and everything from day one because you have lost your job but it is also really important for the employer. This is really important because we have a flexible labour market where it is easy to get hired and, as such, easy to get fired. It actually makes us have a lot of job openings all the time. That is why it is extremely important in this debate to look at the benefit system like what to say? It creates value.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112031	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112032	I didn't ask for the introduction of civil pay. I am opposed to that. I said that if it is the case that people cannot get a job and they must of course say yes to it if they are offered a job • If they are not offered a job and do not have a job, do they not just have to have unemployment benefits until they have received an income or do people just have nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112101	It is the case that the Danish People's Party does not agree at all with the premise that a job must be offered as a job. Now it's actually the case that if you're available, you have to be an active seeker. You also have a responsibility as a citizen of Danish society to try to become self-supporting. Although the job centres now, with the new law that comes in that area, must also be job-enhancing, it is not the case that responsibility has been taken from the individual unemployed. It is still the individual unemployed who have a very, very great responsibility to become self-supporting. And what I hear is being said by Enhedslisten is that the benefits should just be able to continue forever. We do not agree with that in the Danish People's Party that they should be able to do so if that was the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112146	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112150	Thank you. I simply have to go back to what my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has to say. Jesper Petersen mentioned, namely, that Søren Espersen has proposed that the State should pay for these lost revenues for the companies. I understand, then, that on the matters that are actually intended to be implemented, we can see that there are amendments to the Finance Act. My question is this: if you have to pay out 4 billion next year. kr., should it be in the Finance Act, whether you get the money back from the EU or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112230	We do not want to pay out 4 billion. kr. to Danish business if no agreement has been reached in the EU. I hardly think I can say much clearer from up here. It would be a shame if we had to spend all our time talking about it only. But the fact is that what we can see is that we are in a terrible situation where this can be very damaging to banks, and this is very much affecting employment. This case isn't just a joke. That is why we have tried, as well as we could, in the committees on which we are now sitting, to say to the government: go down to the European Union and fight for an agreement so that this sanction imposed on Russia does not mean that we have to see bank crashes and other things in Denmark. If we get an agreement • something suggests that we get buy-in arrangements and other • it is important that it is the Danish state that from day one, when the agreement is finished, pays out the money. And then we must have the slip that will stay before they come back from the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112326	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112327	I very, very much agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this is not a matter for us to have fun with. That's why our food minister is fighting for this. What I am just trying to drill out is that when it says in a newspaper that one of the leading members of the Danish People's Party says that the state must now go in and help the companies, because they should not pay for a sanction that is politically determined, it is not true unless some things fall into place in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112359	It is true that we hope to have an agreement in the European Union. Of course, we hope so. I have also been to an interparliamentary meeting in Rome not long ago, and what I hear from the other Member States is that they are in the same situation. Unfortunately, it can be said that when you look at Danish agriculture, especially pig production, it hits Denmark particularly hard. This also applies to Poland and other countries which are large producers and where Russia is the big market. However, we have a clear feeling that this may also be resolved in the EU system. That is why we are just saying, and I would also like to send the signal here, that when we have an agreement, it is not about the EU paying back for these political decisions that have been taken in 2-3 years' time. Then, unfortunately, I think we will see that there are banks that have such great challenges in getting their money home, so we will see bank closures and other things. And when we have that agreement in place in the European Union, we would like the state to take the lead and say: we are putting the money out. And that's what you have to put in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112457	Mrs Trine Bramsen has the next brief remark to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112500	I would also like to ask a few questions about the future of Denmark, namely our children. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he believes that parents of children should be deducted from all costs for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112518	That is the proposal that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has been out at some point, I know, about a lot going on in the area of children and parents. That's what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen was out with, is not a proposal that we have worked very hard on. But I can certainly see, in relation to what the children mean to the Social Democratic Party, that it is the case that the Minister for Trade and Development has been out talking about precisely this. And that's not just something he's been out to say. He has said that there is room for manoeuvre and that it is heartblood for the Socialists. There you have to look at what happens to the vulnerable families and their children. What is then just interesting is when the Minister for Trade and Development, who is a very prominent member, has been out to say that it is heart-blooded that when you look at the Finance Bill, you can see that there is something about the vulnerable families and their children, and that in 2015 there is also a lot of money set aside for it, namely 0 DKK. Only from 2016 will there be some money. There's gonna be 50 million. kr. Is it social democratic heart blood when you put 0 kroner? off? You put in some text, but the economy does not follow at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112621	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112623	Now it is I who ask the questions and the rapporteur who has to answer, so I ask again: does the rapporteur think that parents should be deducted from all costs for children?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112632	As I say, we have not, in fact, dealt with the proposal that has been put forward by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Bjarne Laustsen, that there must be deductions for a great many things for children's families. We have not been able to see that this has been part of the budget bill, and that is why we have not included it here either in my speech or in our amendments. So I have to say that the proposal that has come from a Socialist Member is not a proposal that we have dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112658	The next brief remark is from Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112702	In the Radical Left we are very much wondering how the Danish People's Party can, on the one hand, promise more money for welfare and, on the other hand, promise more tax relief. After all, what Mrs Trine Bramssen asked was not fully answered. The thing is, sir... Jørn Dohrmann of the Danish People's Party has promised that he will work to ensure that children's families can deduct all expenses from taxes. So I would like to repeat Mrs Trine Bramsen's question: is it the policy of the Danish People's Party that families with children should be able to deduct from taxes everything they spend on their children? The Ministry of Taxation has announced that it will cost 10 billion. I should like to say a few words to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112747	I am glad that it became a little more specific where the proposal had come from, because I was quite convinced that it had of course come from the Socialist Group, because that is where I have seen it. I can say that we would really like to support the fact that families with children have a good everyday life. Fortunately, we have a welfare system that also handles it. We do not believe that all costs associated with being a parent should be deductible from tax. I'd like to say that. But what is interesting then is that when the Social Democratic led government is said and it is by a Vice-President that this is heart blood and that you want to give these families something, especially the vulnerable families, you put 0 kr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I think that's interesting when we're gonna have this talk about the children's families.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112837	Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112838	After all, it is now a member of parliament or former member of parliament from the Danish People's Party who has said so here. And Mr. Peter Skaarup, who is in the leadership of the Danish People's Party, has said to BT, and I quote: "It is difficult to assess whether there is a time when we can get through with something like that. This contrasts slightly with what the rapporteur is saying now. Then this is something that the Danish People's Party works for, or it's just Mr. Jørn Dohrmann and Mr. Peter Skaarup, who has just been out in a small solo which has not been approved by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112909	I don't think so, sir. Peter Skaarup is to be approved by the rapporteur. But I can at least say that when we look at the economic policy that is, both the one we are bringing with us and the one we can see there is advice in Denmark, there is no room for that policy now to say that all families with children must be deducted from everything that has to do with the family. But I would like to repeat what I said before: we would really like to support being a family for children in Denmark. When we look at the children's numbers and when we look at demographic developments, we actually have a challenge in Denmark. Therefore, there is no doubt that this discussion about what it is like to be a family for children in Denmark, of course, takes up a lot in the Danish People's Party. There are several parameters to be played on, not only the tax, but also other parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112953	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217112957	It is clear, after the rapporteur of the Left and now also the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that agreement in the bourgeois camp can sometimes be a little difficult to find. In any case, it will present major challenges after a forthcoming election. Perhaps it has to be said that the Danish People's Party is quite alone in the desire to look at the unemployment benefit issue, but also the desire for increased welfare in the public sector. So I would like to ask how the rapporteur imagines that the Danish People's Party will have a shortened recovery requirement for daily allowances and ensure growth in the public sector, so that we can take dignified care of the 87 000 more elderly who will arrive by 2019, i.e. the elderly, as the rapporteur of the Left said earlier, must be looked after by exactly the same number of employees in the public sector as there are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113056	Very, very interesting question, especially from the SF, because what is of course the interesting thing about the Left is that they say what they mean. After all, the Social Democratic led government with the participation of the SF went to elections for growth of 1.4%. Pia Olsen Dyhr's former president traveled around the municipalities and said: If we get power as we have been watching, if we get into government, then there will be so many millions and so many millions there were two-digit figures to the municipalities. There was a name for what kind of municipalities would get money. Now it is not the case that the forthcoming elections have been decided. There are some voters who have to vote first. But what it's about when you need partners in politics is that it's really good to work with someone you trust. But trust doesn't really have to agree on the policy, but trust means a lot in the political system. When Pia Olsen Dyhr asks how we will make sure that there is more prosperity, I just want to say that when we look at 2011, we can see that on average a little over 45,000 DKK were spent. older people in the municipalities. In 2013 much less was spent; 42,000 DKK were spent. per the elderly in the municipalities, therefore, a decline in welfare. So that is not what we heard in the election campaign that was supposed to give the government that is sitting now the opportunity to gain power.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113216	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113217	Now the rapporteur did not answer my question at all, but was very busy with what the SF has done and what the government has done and so on. I think it would suit the Danish People's Party, which I normally see as a party that responds to what you are asked to answer, so I will ask again: will the Danish People's Party, after an election, vote for zero growth, which means that we have the same number of employees in the public sector, despite the fact that we have more elderly people? Will the Danish People's Party vote for it, that is, for zero growth? And will the Danish People's Party therefore already say to the elderly that they will not get a boost in welfare? Or says the Danish People's Party: No, we will not, we will make demands. We do not accept it and we will not vote for the Left's zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113304	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113306	I actually thought I was trying to answer because this question is about what it's really going to be. I would rather vote for the fact that tomorrow there are the number of home helpers that we have today, rather than voting for the policy that has been pursued here, where there has been a reduction in the number of home helpers that is quite the opposite. I'm just saying here from the platform that politics is about trust. We strongly disagree with the Left that there should be zero growth, but the Danish People's Party acknowledges that the Left is nevertheless honest. Left says what they want. What did we see before? What happened out in the black tower? It was a few days after the election. Then they made a policy that went in the completely opposite direction. There has been minus growth in the municipalities, even if they went to the polls on the contrary. We are confident that we can have a political discussion with the Left on how Denmark should look if the electorate gives us a mandate to do so. Politics is about credibility. It is not just about what you say; it is about what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113404	Sir. Christian Juhl has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113407	Thank you. I think the rapporteur knows that feeling in the summer when you lie on the beach and then pick up a handful of sand. If you do not keep much eye on it, it slowly disappears between your fingers, for there is such a tendency. Sometimes you can also think about the Danish People's Party in the same way with their attitude to the daily allowance. That's why I'd like to hear a little more about it. For what was it like in 2010, compared to who destroyed things in the midst of the worst crisis? Yes, it was the Danish People's Party. Luckily, and we have cheered a little over this, the Danish People's Party will then participate in voting to halve the recovery claim again, at least temporarily. But we must find lasting solutions to the recovery requirement until the commission is ready. This isn't gonna last very long. It's gonna be a year and a half and then it's over. Could the rapporteur reveal how we are really going to solve this problem? We tabled 13 proposals last year and the DF voted against all 13 proposals. We did that to find out what the possibilities were in this Parliament. Can the rapporteur reveal what will then be done to solve the problem for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113519	First of all, we take full responsibility for the fact that we do, of course, have a different attitude today when we look at the benefit issue. That is what we have put forward openly, and so it should be. I think that we in this Parliament all too often find that things are completely locked. Although I sense that among the rapporteurs, among the Members of Parliament, there is a majority for something else, one cannot move because the colour combination does not fit. That's too bad. We recognise that when the unemployment benefit reform was carried out, the decision was based on the assumption that, as far as I remember, 4 000 to 5 000 people would be affected by it. What we could see was that the crisis caused much, much more, to be affected by it. Is it then a disaster as a political party to say that the conditions on which it was based were not the right ones? As we looked into the future, we must say that we saw wrong. We recognise that. Should there not be room in politics for saying that the decision you made did not last long and that you must therefore reverse it? I think it is really a pity that there is no room for this House. There should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113630	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113631	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm saying, and so are there. And we would rather rejoice over 1 converted sins than 25 saints, I had almost said. That is also what I am saying, and that is why I am not asking why on earth you have changed your mind. That should only be appreciated. Now the position is valid until the commission is done. That is why I ask: what is the strategic solution of the Danish People's Party to the major problems we have in the area of unemployment benefits? After all, I tried to look at the 13 proposals we could come up with as good proposals, and they would not be included in last year's DF. Perhaps it may be, and I hope so, that you have changed your mind and that you will be there next time, but will the rapporteur instead of talking about what is allowed and not allowed in here, try to say in concrete terms what policy will be taken to bring the unemployed out of the terrible situation they are in now, so that we can see if there are any real opportunities for making any policy? We can't just scold the government for not wanting to come up with some plans and then not even bringing some.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113734	I very much agree with that. What is important is, among other things, that we get our unemployed trained. That is why we have also been involved in the agreements that have just entered into in relation to the need to upgrade the skills of the unemployed. Unfortunately, what we are seeing at the moment is that we have a great many unemployed people who are skilled craftsmen and who have a great deal of experience, but unfortunately have no paper on anything. That is why it is very good about the employment reform that is coming now. There will be an opportunity to be trained and to get paper on the skills that you have so that you can get out and compete on the market. It must also be seen in the light of the fact that there will be a great many major infrastructure projects in the next few years, and it is important that the unemployed come out and become able to compete with cheap Eastern European labour. And, of course, they need some paper on it. There, of course, we are also grateful for the good dialogue, the good debate that has taken place with the government, where we have made some very good agreements that are precisely taking place in the field of education. And then we would like to see a cyclical system in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113830	Mrs Astrid Krag for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113831	Thank you. I must admit that it stands for me as one of the biggest mysteries in recent Danish political history that the Danish People's Party chooses to stick so closely to Lars Løkke Rasmussen and his zero growth, but if we now leave it to rest and say that the hope is bright green, where you in the Danish People's Party believe that you can make Lars Løkke Rasmussen deviate from what otherwise seems to be a very clear demand from him, namely the demand for zero growth, then we know that the Danish People's Party will have a growth of 0.8 per cent. in public expenditure. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to explain how he will be able to afford it, while at the same time giving the tax concessions promised to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217113909	First of all, it can be said that the question is, what do you stick to if you say that you want to point to Helle Thorning-Schmidt, because we can see in the Economic Statement that there is a growth of 0.1 per cent. One cannot get closer to zero growth than 0.1, that is the closest one can get to it, and that is what the Socialist-led government says will come after 2015. The problem is that it is probably not going to last, because it will probably be a higher growth, it will probably be higher than 0.1%. But it is not because you do more for welfare, no, it is because you have this hugely increased expenditure, which is now 4 billion. kr. Every year, at the same time as you have an ambition to go up to 1%. In relation to development aid, there is a great deal of money. This is a matter of priority. The government we have now does not give priority to welfare. The government we now have is giving priority to increased immigration and development aid, and that is why we are looking the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114009	Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114010	If you could get a full bingo record of wrong claims in a speech, I think I would now be able to shout bingo, because it was quite a lot of things that are quite distant from reality, like the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur who flew into the room. What he did not throw out was then the answer to what I asked, and then I can fortunately ask again: Provided that the Danish People's Party succeeds in what one has said one wants, namely 0.8 percent growth in the public sector for our welfare, how will one get the money, both for it and for the tax reliefs that one has not just happened to say that one might give, but as Mr. Peter Skaarup has said that a guarantee should be given to the Danes? Where's the money, the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114049	I can go back and look at the economic statement that the government has made, for what it says must be true; at least it is not the Danish People's Party that has helped to dictate it. There you have a growth rate of 0.9%. in 2014, and you have a growth rate of 1.5%. in 2015. It is also written that this should be seen in the light of the temporary high public spending on asylum. It's the case that if we went down to 0.7%. of GNP in relation to our development aid... there are only four countries in the world that have such a high level of expenditure... then we would have something similar to 13 billion. kr. in extra revenue that we could spend on something else until 2020. This also applies if we had normalised the asylum area, if we did not have the rules that we have today, with full cash assistance, full folk pension, which of course attracts people to come to Denmark. We understand why they are coming, but we do not want to change that. We have therefore received an increase in annual expenditure of 4 billion. kr. You can then multiply that up to 2020 and see that there is a lot of money. That is what has been chosen to focus on by the government, and we mourn that you have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114157	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114159	I would like to quote Mr. Peter Skaarup, who writes in his book: You must have 5,000 DKK. extra a month after tax by taking a job. We have to give that guarantee. It's about tax breaks. At the same time, I can understand Mr. Peter Skaarup, that he said in BT on 24 November that you should not take seriously what he says in a book. Then, of course, I get a little confused. I am wondering whether the rapporteur could perhaps help to confirm or deny whether in future we will be able to count on this 5 000 kroner. extra a month if you get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114242-2	We will always work to ensure that, among other things: The job allowance will be withdrawn. In fact, we believe that it should be worthwhile to go to the labour market. And then I would like to make a quote: when it is a work programme, it is in the longer term, and everything cannot be done within a financial year. However, it is clear that when we put forward concrete proposals on the basis of our programmes, we will of course give funding. This is the way we work in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114308	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114309	We're not talking about change. At least Kraka has calculated this proposal to cost 10 billion. kr. So the question is: should a work programme be read as something that will be implemented afterwards? Well, that's a guarantee, as Mr. Peter Skaarup also gave in his book. However, it is no more a guarantee than the guarantee given to Danish business that you would keep them indemnified in relation to a trade sanction, where you will send the bill to the EU as DF in parantes noted is against.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114345	Let me correct one thing: it wasn't sir. Peter Skaarup, who said what I just read here before. After all, it was the Minister for Trade and Development, the Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party, who said that this is the way to read a work programme. And I actually think it is. When the Danish People's Party first came and said that we would like to have an elderly check, a lot of people said: It will never happen, the Danish People's Party is just populism, you are some worse ones that never come an elderly check. What happened? Time and again we have pushed for an elderly check, and what have we got? We have received an old-age check, which everyone in the Chamber is happy about. The current government is pleased with the elderly cheque, and that is the case with a work programme. When you have a work programme and here we have one that says that people need more to go to work and that we would like to see you have 5,000 kroner. more for yourself, when you are on the labour market, of course we will work for it. When I look at what we have succeeded in in relation to that work programme and it is an old work programme in which we have had many of the things on for years and years we have actually succeeded quite well with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114437	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114440	Thank you very much. After all, the Danish People's Party wants to give the impression that it is a socially responsible party, and when you look at some of the amendments, you see that there are also some of those who can well live up to that headline. I am thinking of the elderly billion proposed; we are also talking about halving the recovery requirement. These are just a few examples. It is possible that the rapporteur can find more, he will be able to do so. Then there is the question: how do you finance these things? Yes, there is one positive thing, and I would like to emphasise it, and I hope that it will be possible for the Danish People's Party to continue to hold on to it. We would like to postpone this reduction in corporation tax, which was otherwise allowed to be paid by the recipients of cash benefits; now I can see the recipients of cash benefits who have contributed to it, of course not the money again. But is it, apart from the social responsibility, that some of the poorest people in the world, namely refugees, and development aid, should be allowed to finance these positive proposals? Is it socially responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114554	One must remember to look at the whole proposal. In fact, we have also provided a framework for more work to be done in the outlying areas. What we can just see is that with the policy being pursued in Denmark at this time, these people come to Denmark; that is clear. We fully acknowledge that. After all, we are not chasing the people who come here; we are chasing the system that makes it so attractive to come to Denmark. It is clear that you will come when you are told that you are over 5,000 km away: Come to Denmark and get your family up here, and you will get the equivalent of DKK 450,000. a year; whether you have never set foot on Danish soil, you can get a retirement pension from day one. I understand that if you are from Eritrea, Syria and elsewhere in the world, you choose to go to Denmark. The only question is whether we help the people best by accepting them in Denmark, and the question is whether we can afford to have the system that we have today. We do not think there is any room for this, even if we want to be responsible in the social field in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114651	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114652	My question is this: is it socially responsible to let some of the poorest people in the world, for that matter those in Denmark, finance the positive things that we agree on there. That is my question, and the rapporteur has not dealt with it. Let me elaborate on that a little bit. A saving of 2.5 billion is proposed for development aid. kr. There will be little help in the neighbourhoods for that, except that everyone knows how much help you can get up to stand in Syria, as it looks today in the neighbourhoods; it doesn't hold a meter. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. must be paid for by some of the poorest people in the world. 1 billion kr. we want to cut the policy on foreigners. I assume that in that 1 billion. kr. Is it not true that the start-up aid to be reinstated and the cash benefits ceiling are hidden? kr. All experience shows that providing such low benefits to people who do not have so many resources is something that maintains people in poverty. After all, there is a reason why they are not in the labour market. I'm just asking, is it socially responsible? That is what I would like the rapporteur to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114759	We certainly believe it is. The question is whether you help a family with a completely different cultural background, a family that takes from every other family and comes up here. We're spending 450,000 kroner. annual on average. That's a lot of money. The question is whether those people are really better helped by coming to Denmark and being poorly integrated, outside the labour market, having the social problems that are because their children may not have a family father and mother who is self-supporting to look up to. The question is whether we could not also, with a social aim, help those people much better in their vicinity for a relatively much lower amount. I think we could help them much better in their vicinity. Then it has to be said that the 2.5 billion. kr. has been taken out of a pool of 17,000 million. kr., which flows out of the Danish Treasury annually to exposures we have around the world; we come to a club where there are only four other countries, we will be some of those in the world that provide most for development assistance. And the Danish People's Party doesn't say at any time that we should stop being part of this club.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114907	The very last question is Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114910	Thank you. I am here with the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party, on which we shall vote later today, and I have to say that I am a little over it when I compare it with the leaflet in my hand, which you in the Danish People's Party still distribute to older people all over the country. And then I think: how many of the proposals contained in this report do the Danish People's Party expect to be financed by the amendments that are here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217114945	What we can see, unfortunately, has happened under this government is that there has been less and less money for each elderly person out there. It's not something I'm saying, it's something I can read myself to. You can just see that. There has been less money for each elderly person in the municipalities. That is why, of course, we have set aside an older billion precisely in order to respond to what we are seeing out there, namely that there are fewer and fewer measures for the elderly in relation to having a positive quality of life. We've had the discussion about food and so on. etc. That's why we've set off a billion dollars. We have not earmarked that billion for some of those proposals, but we have earmarked a billion for the elderly. What I think is very important is to have a look at what has happened in the municipalities under this government, where we can see that it has gone a way: less money for the elderly area. We need to take an active stand on this. That is why we have set aside a billion of, and we would very much like to be involved if we had the power to do so, to earmark exactly what the money should go to in the area of the elderly out in the municipalities, but that probably requires less analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217115045	Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217115047	Well, I've seen that there are proposals for a real billion. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? And then I think that the Danish People's Party cannot continue to make new proposals when you have a number that are in the fold here that you haven't done anything about yet. I just want to know: When is the free transport to all older people over 65 coming in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217115113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217115115	Now I could refer to the Minister for Trade and Development again and then say that when something is heart blood, you put 0 kroner. off. But when will it come? I would like to say again what I did before, namely that this is a work programme. Listen, when we wrote in our work programme that we wanted an elderly check, the same people sat over there laughing and saying: Listen, what is in such a work programme is never going to happen. The Danish People's Party has succeeded fantastically well. What we have written in our work programme is that we want cheap, free, public transport for the elderly. That is what we are working towards. I just wanted to say that there was a laugh when we said old check. We have an old check today. Try to ask the elderly if they are looking forward to getting the old check coming. There is one sender on it, and it is the Danish People's Party. We got this through and we continue to work seriously with our work programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217115211	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The radical rapporteur has wanted to wait until after the midday break, and if no one objects, I will interrupt the sitting here. We'll meet again at 2:00. 13.00
ParlaMint-DK_20141217130007	The sitting is resumed. This is the third reading of draft Finance Act, and the next speaker in the rapporteur's report is Mrs Camilla Her as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217130026	Thank you. Community financial law. That is what we call the draft budget we are discussing today, because it is about people. With the Finance Act 2015, we lift Denmark from scratch and give a much-needed hand to cash relief recipients, runners, medical patients and psychiatric patients. We invest massively in developing our core welfare by 6.5 billion. kr. for health and 1.5 billion for health. kr. for children, the elderly and integration. The Community's financial law is shaped in the middle of Danish policy. The agreement has been signed with SF and Enhedslisten, and we sign for it. However, the Finance Act would never have been created if it had not been for the government's responsible economic policy and the numerous reforms and agreements across the middle: the tax reform, which gives ordinary people a greater economic benefit by working; the cash aid reform, which ensures that more young people under 30 years of age are offered opportunities in the form of training and work; the growth packages, which create new jobs and provide the foundations for the future's welfare. We have had the courage to carry out reforms, not for the sake of reforms, but because reforms give people opportunities to get an education, take a job, integrate into society. The revenue from the reforms we invest in core welfare. Specifically, 20 billion. kr. extra for social work, for health, for education and for care for the elderly by 2020. Those investments would not be possible in a scenario of zero growth. Since 2011, the government has been working hard to consolidate and restore the Danish economy, and we can now see the results ticking in. Since mid-2013, we have created some 28,000 more jobs in the private sector, and unemployment is falling. It is good for the economy, but most of all it is good for the people who have got a job. With the Finance Act, the government has created funding for balanced growth in public spending for the benefit of our children and our elderly. High-quality daily services and adequate pedagogues are very important for the well-being and development of our children. That applies to all children. We're gonna set off a billion dollars. kr. over the next 4 years to strengthen the day offer area. It comes on top of the 500 million permanent boost. kr. a year, which was given by the Government's first Finance Act. The new funds are put into effect as a pool in which the municipalities can only participate if they undertake to use them for more staff in the day-to-day services field. We're gonna set aside over 500 million. kr. to disseminate a rock card system which allows the weakest home help recipients to choose for themselves what form of extra help they would like. It can help to cook the favorite dish or for a tour of the cinema. About 13,500 of the country's weakest recipients of home help will thus improve the quality of life. The government also invests 6.5 billion. kr. over 4 years for health care, including 5 billion. kr. to the government's health strategy... the sooner the better. The strategy must ensure that more Danes survive a cancer, that chronic diseases are discovered in the past, that general practice is strengthened and that patients are more involved in their own treatment. In addition to the government's own strategy, we set aside another 1.5 billion. kr. for the health of particularly vulnerable groups. We are strengthening our efforts towards older medical patients. It's about time. We counteract overcrowding in hospitals, we strengthen svangroomsorgen and health care efforts towards children of vulnerable and vulnerable parents, and we will improve the prevention of high alcohol consumption, suicide and smoking, all of which have a social impact. Finally, we are introducing an automatic chronicler supplement which ensures that particularly weak patients can pay their medications. I'm proud of that. The green transition has received a significant boost with the Finance Act. As you know, climate change remains one of the biggest challenges facing the world. The Finance Act brings Denmark closer to the target of 40%. lower greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. We're gonna set up $300 million. kr. over 3 years to promote the spread of large heat pumps in the district heating system, which is crucial for the green conversion because they can store energy from wind turbines. In addition, the Finance Act supports the spread of geothermal energy, where heat is extracted from the soil. The Finance Act gives Denmark more nature. With the agreement, we will set aside an additional 400 million. kr. to • Natureplan Denmark • among other things: for afforestation. We are allocating funds to strengthen ecological efforts to ensure sustainable development in agriculture. We know that the development of green solutions creates jobs, which is why we also significantly strengthen environmental technology development and allocate more money to the Green Conversion Fund and the development of circular economy. I also welcome the fact that the government has found a solution for the relatively small group which has used up their daily allowance and which has not entered employment, education or other public support. This group will be able to receive temporary benefits under the Finance Act so that they can receive public support for up to three years together. We maintain the unemployment benefit reform unchanged, and the phasing out of the Labour Market Authority remains firm. The new temporary cash benefit is anchored in the municipalities and is closely linked to an intensive, active effort. That is why the Financial Law Agreement is also a balanced compromise in this area. It has been difficult years for Danish economy and for the Danes. Growth has waited for it. This year we expect modest growth of 0.7%. of GDP. But Denmark has good maps when the recovery comes. In times of crisis, our companies have consolidated, the debt of households is declining, our competitiveness has increased. Public finances are sustainable and we have made a number of structural reforms that provide a good basis for sustainable growth. The government's policy works. The latest forecasts predict a good growth in 2015 and a further increase in employment. Housing prices are rising throughout Denmark, not only in Copenhagen, and consumer confidence in their own economy is at the level of 2008, when the crisis set in. The Danes view the economy more positively than before, and it is good for Denmark. The Finance Act for 2015 contributes as much as possible to that development without compromising the economy. We are not done with the work, we are not done with creating results and reforming Denmark. We are going to face a spring with important tasks. Efforts towards the citizens who are furthest from the labour market are in focus when Carsten Koch's committee presents its report in January. We should do everything possible to ensure that these people too have a place in the labour market. Another task that awaits us is integration reform. These days we have many refugees who want our protection. They'll get it. But, of course, they must also contribute to the society that has helped them. Immigrants and refugees should not be referred to passive support. Our aim is to integrate them as quickly as possible into the Danish labour market. It is not enough that about half of them are at work. The Radical Left's ambition is that non-western immigrants should work as much as Western immigrants. This is a prerequisite for us to continue to develop our welfare society and to be open to the outside world. It's all about people. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131005	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we start with the questioning round, and the first speaker is Mr. Peter Christensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131016	It is clear from today's press that the Radical Left does not believe that the proposal to change the family reunification rules will have any significance. And I would like to ask a question about that in connection with today's financial law debate, as we can see that some of what is seriously a major expenditure item on the budget law for 2015 is the increase in the number of asylum seekers. Do the Radicals think that with a growth of 0.1%? in 2016, and if you are not going to change anything else in the field of foreigners, can really handle the expense that will then also be in 2016, if the Radicals are right that it will not result in a smaller number in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131125	I don't know where sir. Peter Christensen has got the impression that we should suddenly be able to predict how many refugees we get to Denmark. Nobody can do that. If so, sir. Peter Christensen refers to the statements made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior today, he says that what we must ensure is that the people who are here are integrated as quickly as possible, precisely so that they can contribute to society. That's what's the main point of that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131156	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131159	But what is the main point in not being able to have family reunification in the first year? I'd really like to hear that. What, then, is the intention of the Radical Left in proposing what the government is doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131222	The reason why we are making a law for war refugees is precisely that we want to give them a place in Danish legislation, if I may say so. There hasn't been before. There we have only had a place in Danish legislation for those who are individually persecuted, and then we have followed a practice from a judgment of the Court of Human Rights, as we are fortunately doing in this country, as has been said in recent years, that one can also come from a situation in one's country that is so terrible that one needs protection. We now give these people a place in Danish legislation, and that is where we have had to set the framework for how it should be. We have discussed this very carefully, including on several occasions in this Chamber, and the draft law is now under the second reading, as the rapporteur probably knows. And the framework we have laid is that we say that we really think it is reasonable that when you come as a refugee and not as an individual persecuted, your stay is temporary and that you can only apply for family reunification after 1 year. Because the starting point is that if the situation changes, of course you have to go back.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131335	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131340	Thank you. Very interesting debate, because has one dealt with the economics, in relation to those people staying here and of course also being family together afterwards? I don't think you can see that being done in relation to the time after 2015, if you read the Finance Act. There are unpaid bills. What I really want to ask is whether Mrs Camilla Hersom agrees that what we are dealing with now is a draft Finance Act for the financial year 2015. That is what we are discussing here in Parliament today. Mrs Camilla Hersom then mentions the things she is happy to do. It was the provision of medical supplements to the chronically ill; she is proud of that. And it was security and early action towards vulnerable families; Mrs Camilla Hersom is pleased about that. Can Mrs Camilla Hersom confirm that there are 0 kr. to the two proposals in the Finance Act for 2015? In other words, Mrs Camilla Hersom is talking about something that does not exist. I guess you can't be proud of saying that you do something for the chronically ill, and then you do nothing, because you don't do anything until 2016, so you might have been a little early with the speech paper. Can't I just be confirmed that there's 0 kroner? to the two areas in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131450	I am of the opinion that, with this financial law, we are doing a number of well-chosen things which also give some very vulnerable and vulnerable groups better opportunities. Sir. René Christensen knows very well that when you organise a financial law it is over four years. There is the year in which it is to apply, and then there are some estimates. That's the way you do it. Then the figures will have to vote both over the four years and in each year, and they will do so with this draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131526	Yes, they do, and then we are back to the first question again, because what is the priority in this Finance Act? We have not given priority to the chronically ill; we have not given priority to the vulnerable families; we have not spent the proceeds on core welfare, as the rapporteur said. No, it has been used to close the gap because there is a misguided policy in the area of immigration, asylum, which means that we now have a bill of 4 billion. kr. That is what has been chosen to be a priority. Then everything else would have been done, and I fully acknowledge that. These are things that are very positive, but they have just not been able to find funding for it. So it is a post office too early to say that priority has been given to it, because priority has been given to 0 kr. to these welfare areas. At the same time, priority has been given to 4 billion. kr. This is what we have chosen to do with this budget law, and that is what I think the rapporteur should do. The other things are positive, but it is just not in the budget law for 2015, one should rejoice that something comes to the vulnerable families and the chronically ill. It's not until after 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131629	There are initiatives, many initiatives, both in terms of health and in relation to the most vulnerable groups also for the year 2015. But I don't know what kind of a delusional picture of reality the Danish People's Party is setting up. When you give priority to funding, you also take into account the years of estimates, and there are many reasons for this, and on the one hand money must, of course, be taken care of, you must remain within the framework, and this government intends to continue to do so, and, on the other hand, there are, in particular, health issues which simply take time to roll out. Then reference is made to the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. I do not know if the Danish People's Party has stopped orienting itself in the world, but if they spent a second on it, they would know that we have the largest flow of refugees in the world since World War II. It also affects Denmark. We cannot get out of the world and therefore, of course, we will also have more asylum seekers. I think we all wish it was not the case that those people had to flee their country. I think they would prefer that, too. But the situation is different, and there is what we are dealing with, not at all different from what other countries are unfortunately encountering.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131748	Thank you. The next question in the line is Mr. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131754	After all, the Socialists have on several occasions criticized the unemployment benefit reform, and this has given rise to some hope, I believe, among some of the up to 50,000 Danes who are now in one way or another in the process of losing their right to benefit or having lost the right to benefit. At the same time, we have also been able to read that the radical President, Morten Østergaard, does not believe that there is a need to change the unemployment benefit reform. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur will not reveal a little what concessions the Radicals would like to make in the field of unemployment benefits after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131827	I think I would draw very big headlines if I were here from the platform to tell you what concessions we might make after an election. We fully support the daily subsistence commission that has been set up. We are always willing to see whether we can adapt better and more appropriately than we are doing today. What is crucial for us is that we have a benefit system that matches the labour market and the population we have. The rapporteur would like to know that we basically support a two-year benefit period and a one-year earning period. In fact, we think there is some reasonableness in that. But we are willing to discuss everything when it is put forward by the benefit commission. For we must have an allowance system which both gives people the security they must have in their employment, but which, at the same time, ensures that we do not keep them on passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131922	Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131923	Now you can say that it's so-so with that security if you're constantly living in an insecure situation. But they have part of the responsibility for that from the radical side. But I'd really like to get on with this. Now that we have this benefit commission, and now that it comes with its results over the next year, will the Radicals then be told that this is how I hear almost the radical rapporteur categorically refuse to have a longer period of benefit than 2 years, and will one refuse to have a shorter period of recovery than 1 year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217131956	But I'm not going to rule out or promise anything here from the platform in relation to the recommendations of the benefit commission. After all, they are working precisely because we have faith that they can come up with proposals that bring us even further forward. That is what the purpose is, and we are, of course, quite ready for the discussions when we get there, and I hope that it is an SR government that helps to conduct those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132026	Thank you. The next question in the line is Mr. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132031	Thank you. I understand that the reforms, i.e. the deterioration for them in cash benefits and for those who are unemployed, through a deterioration in the benefit system, are like a helping hand for people. I mean, when you do these things that make some poor, it's to help them move on to work or education. How has the mechanism actually been said that by making people poorer, by taking the daily allowance away from them, by weakening or removing the cash aid helping people in work or in education? I haven't quite understood that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132122	It only helps them if they have opportunities at the same time, and unfortunately there is a lot to suggest that our systems are also adapting to how long, for example. an allowance period runs, how little or much it takes, so that very young people can also be parked on a cash benefit. We simply do not think that young people should do so. Young people must have a helping hand, a little push, a boost, something that motivates them to take an education so that they can gain a foothold in the labour market. If you are unemployed, there must be an employment effort to ensure that you get a job as soon as possible. Unfortunately, there are some logics that mean that if the benefit period is 4 years old, the system also adjusts to it in terms of how to help people. So that's why this isn't on its own. In other words, the reforms made in the field of cash aid, early retirement, the unemployment benefit system are paired with a much, much more active employment effort, because I assume that we agree that the most important thing for all people is to have a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132240	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132241	Yes, we are in complete agreement with that. There's just the misunderstanding that people can say that they don't want a job and then get a daily allowance instead. Well, the rules are that if you get a job offered, you have to take the job. And if you do not take it, you will be punished by being deprived of your daily allowance. That is why I do not understand a piece of how it helps to get more jobs, more job offers, to make people poor. I have never understood that, and I think the Radical Left owes an answer to that. Why do more jobs come in, why do more jobs come in, just because you make people who are not in work poorer? What kind of mechanism is that? I cannot see it, but it may be that the Radical Left can explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132338	I don't think Frank Aaen can find a single quote from a radical in which a radical would claim that making people poorer in themselves makes them get a job. What we are saying is that there is a link between the way in which our system of benefits is linked, the way in which the system reacts, and how the labour market reacts. It is very mysterious, but it is so that the greater the supply of work, the more jobs there will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132414	Thank you. The next question in the line is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132420	Mrs Camilla Hersom talks about the government's responsible economic policy. Until recently there was broad agreement here in the Folketing that responsibility in economic policy as one of the most natural among others. In this context, it was clear that the pension billions out there in society were not committed to taxation until people raised them because they wanted to retire, because then it was so wisely arranged that the money would come into the treasury when more money would also have to be spent on the health care and care of the elderly and nursing homes, etc. There is no longer any agreement in the Folketing that this is an economically responsible way of doing so. Can Mrs Camilla Hersom tell us what led the Radical Left to change its mind that it was financially responsible to wait to tax the pension billions until people retired, so that the Radical Left now believes that it should be allowed to tax the pension billions in 2015, so that the government does not have such a deficit on its financial law as it would otherwise have had?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132530	Ole Birk Olesen knows very well that, after all, it is only a small part of the pension funds that we are releasing now or that people can draw to taxation now. We do so because it is essential for the government to be able to maintain an economically responsible course, keeping within the framework of both what we have committed ourselves to in a European context and also in our own budget law. Unfortunately, 2014 has not been as good a year as we wanted, which is why we need to adjust, because the estimates for growth, among other things. Looks different. That is the reason for it. A responsible government must act. But to present it as if we are now taking all of Denmark's pension assets and releasing it, I do not think we are giving a correct picture of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132625	Second question from Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132627	No, it's true that you don't take it all, you take some of it. In the past, financial responsibility was well defined by ensuring that public consumption, public expenditure, did not exceed public revenue so much that it was necessary to attack pension billions. This government and the Radical Left don't give a shit about it. It is now felt that it is financially responsible to begin to attack pension billions because public spending has not been ensured to keep to the level of public revenue, that is a new form of financial responsibility. It is actually new languages to call it financial responsibility. Just two years ago, the Radical Left would have said that it was economically irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132716	After all, financial responsibility is responding to what is happening. There is a crisis in Ukraine which means that Russia boycotts imports from Denmark, there is great uncertainty in Europe, we have a very, very conflicting situation in very large parts of the Middle East. All this also affects the situation here in Denmark. After all, we must respond both to what is the Finance Act for next year and to what is sustainable in the long term. And we think it best that we have been able to do this by doing the pension measures that ensure that we stay within the framework of which we are committed. And if you look at the way in which Denmark's act is assessed abroad, then we get praise for the things we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132809	Thank you. The next question in the line is Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132814	The Radical Left is, after all, half of the government, and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Radical Left considers it responsible that, as a government, we have had to adjust our expectations of growth eight times and in a negative way; in other words, we have had to adjust them downwards. There was a growth estimate in August which was unchanged, and it has now been drastically downgraded, but the government has not taken a single initiative to correct the lack of growth. Is it responsible for the Radical Left to sit in government and not take new steps to create the growth and employment needed for the government to be able to pay the costs they have?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217132903	I think Mike Legarth and I have been sitting together in at least three consultations, where successive ministers have explained how growth estimates are to be established. It is not a political choice; there are quite firm mechanisms for how the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior determine their growth estimates. What you will see, moreover, if you are interested in it and if you compare the growth estimates of the government with the growth estimates of other economic institutions, for example. The National Bank, the Economic Council, the OECD and the European Commission are completely at the same level. So it is not only the government that has been wrong in its estimation, it is the world that is wrong in its estimation, and that is because the world is currently the first edition. After all, we have to put forward the estimate that we think is the most correct. The fact that we have to adjust downwards is all about the course of the world. It is not fun to downgrade, it would be better for all of us if growth had become the way we had predicted. But the important thing for us is that it still points the right way, that there is positive growth and that it seems to be getting even bigger next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133016	Then it's mr. Mike Legarth in the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133018	It is not, in fact, an attack on the fact that people have been wrong; many have done so before this government, let it go; the rapporteur explained how this could happen. But what I am attacking is that it is not politically so that we have had to adjust downwards time and time again and now eight times. It shows quite clearly that we are not using the tools, that we are not taking the initiatives needed to drive us out of the position we are in, that is to say that there will not be the growth that needs to be achieved. Why do the Radical Left and the government not listen to the experts who point out what it takes to create the jobs and the growth that would actually save Denmark and the employment on which we depend? Finally, I would like to ask: do the Radicals not agree with the economic experts who say that zero growth compared with tax cuts, both at the bottom and the top, will give over 10 billion? kr. in revenue and that it will give thousands of extra workers in relation to not doing anything? And wasn't that an agenda to pursue?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133120	Well, the government has taken a lot of growth initiatives, among other things. together with the rapporteur's own party, and some of them are also incorporated into the Finance Act. We create jobs. We have created 28,000 jobs since mid-2013. At least it's to take and feel that it's new jobs in the private sector. Danes who didn't have a job before now have one. There is growth, there is increasing employment, in fact, all the curves point the right way. But it is clear that we had to downgrade the growth estimate, just as all other institutions had to. And we have acted on it, with the pension intervention that was previously criticised so much, and which I can also understand that both the Left and the Conservatives were against, but which they intend to vote in favour of. It's a shame I can't ask questions from here, because otherwise I'd ask why.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133209	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133213	Thank you. The Radical Left usually boasts of being a financially responsible party, which is why we were also pleased to see that the Radical Left did not join the Fair Solution and Fair Change before the last election, which was after all unfunded election promises. Nevertheless, the disappointment is so much greater when you come up with a financial law that is as economically irresponsible as this one is. Part of the promises will only come into effect from 2016 onwards, and those then coming in 2015 are so expensive that you have to postpone other legislation. Here again, let me take an example: the reform of the electricity market, which means that instead of pre-invoicing customers, we must back-invoicing. It's a transition to the wholesale model. There, it has been decided to postpone the entry into force by 1 year in order to avoid burdening the state budgets by 2015, otherwise the deficit line of the EU Stability and Growth Pact cannot be kept within. Does the Radical Left really think that it is financially responsible to postpone legislation because it cannot afford to implement the planned legislation and then comply with the deficit threshold from the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133327	Well, I would deny that the Finance Act is not financially responsible. It is financially responsible. The government is financially responsible. That is why Denmark is still getting AAA ratings from the largest agencies in the world, that we get praise from the OECD and that we get praise from the European Commission. That is because we are pursuing a responsible economic policy. The way the Finance Act is organised is the way to make a Finance Act. You have an existing year, and then you have some estimates. What is crucial is that the economy is linked over those years. And the economy does.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133402	The Asker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133405	After all, the rapporteur did not respond to whether the rapporteur believes it is responsible that the draft law for the reform of the electricity market states: The aim of postponing the introduction of the wholesale model until 1 March 2016 is to avoid the expected one-off deficit of the introduction of the wholesale model of 1 billion. kr. falls in 2015 and for Denmark to remain within the deficit limit of the EU Stability Pact and Growth Pact in 2015. So, have we agreed to these steps on financial responsibility because Mrs Margrethe Vestager has disappeared from Danish politics? Is this where the slippage happens, that is to say you now have to postpone legislation, because otherwise you cannot stay within the deficit limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133448	After all, we are fortunate enough that Margrethe Vestager has become the European Commissioner and she is keeping a close eye on the competitive situation in Europe. We are very, very satisfied with this in the Radical Left. However, I can assure the questioner that if there is something we are concerned about, it is, of course, that we have a basis for pursuing the policy we would like to pursue with the investment in a welfare society that we think is necessary, with a bottom of financial responsibility to do so. There we believe that what we are presenting with the Finance Act is complete, as it should be in this respect, and I have not heard any observers say anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133529	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133536	Thank you. The Radical Left often says that it is about people, and it is also about the SF, and it is also about the asylum seekers who come to Denmark and which we have discussed very much, and it is about the children who cannot be brought together until after 1 year because of the current situation. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur whether it is not difficult as a radical, in relation to the policy one has in the whole area, with its global outlook, with its humanistic focus on helping, etc., to say yes to a policy in which children should be left behind for a whole year, for example. Syria, because the government will now refuse family reunification temporarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133638	Generally speaking, I feel that it is absolutely terrible to look at the course of the world, and I think it seems as if things are going from evil to worse. However, we stand by the legislative proposal we have put forward, and we do so because the reason for this bill is that it is a different category of refugees than those who are individually persecuted. We believe that there is a difference between individual persecution and fleeing over the neck and head because you are personally persecuted or whether you are fleeing from a situation where your country is disintegrating, as is happening in Syria at the moment. Then we say that if you come as a fugitive of war, you have to be prepared for your residence permit to be temporary, because if the situation changes and hopefully it does at some point, including in Syria, then you are supposed to go home if you have been here for quite a short time. We are also saying that it is important for us to be able to accept the people properly, that we can integrate them in a satisfactory way, that there is room for them in the municipalities, and therefore you can only apply to bring your family up here after 1 year. This still means away, even after the change, that the group of refugees who are war refugees who are not individually persecuted will still be reunited in Denmark as quickly as they stay in the surrounding countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133803	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133806	After all, the rapporteur's party chairman and Deputy Prime Minister have just reported home that, in view of what he sees and experiences, he does not believe that it is realistic to talk about a temporary situation. There won't be peace in Syria in a year. So in reality, this bill just shoots the moment when you can get a family reunion. And even if the situation in Syria is now hell on earth, you have to leave your family behind, and you can't get family together with them. This is an area of the world where there is a totally disastrous war and conflict, and I think that the rapporteur's own party chairman was just saying: this is not going to pass, it is not temporary, it will not be over in one year's time. And Andreas Kamm, who was on that trip, also said that this is precisely why we say by the organisations: let us get on with the integration work right away and have them brought together immediately so that no one is left behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217133915	You are brought together in the family, and you are brought together as quickly in Denmark as you do in the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There are countries that do not allow family reunification for war refugees. Of course we do that in Denmark, and we ensure that they are brought together as quickly as in Norway and Sweden, but we need to be able to keep up. If you read the newspapers, you will see that our municipalities actually have quite, quite difficult to find among others. housing because there are as many refugees as there are. We also need to be able to offer reasonable terms to the people who are coming, and that is the balance we have tried to find in the legislative proposal we have put forward. After all, it is a perfectly correct observation that much happiness is needed for the situation to be completely reversed in Syria within one year, but we do not know what it will look like in three years' time or in five years' time or in seven years' time. There it will still be the case that if there are people who are war refugees and who have a very short stay in Denmark before there is peace in their country of origin, they will have to return home. That is what is like temporary; that is the whole point, namely that you have a different status when you flee from general conditions than when you are personally persecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134039	The next question is Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134042	Thank you for that, President. After all, the rapporteur of the Radicals prides himself on coming from a very financially responsible party and also tells us from the platform that the reason why Russia is going so wrong is their economic line. One of the main reasons why Russia is going so wrong is, in fact, that the price of oil has fallen as much as it is, and that has not been budgeted for. What surprises us in the Left is that the Radicals have agreed to an agreement on the Togfonden DK, which has kept up one hundred per cent on the oil price, so that there is total gambling with future investments. We are currently missing 9 billion. kr., for the calculation to go up for the government. You have to invest 28.5 billion. kr., and because of falling oil prices we lack 9 billion. kr. Is that what is defined as economically responsible policy? And if you are financially responsible, you have to give priority to making the calculation go up. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what are the priorities of the Radicals? Is it less public transport in other areas; are the roads to be prioritised; or what is the Radical Left going to give priority to making the calculation go up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134158	It is not true that the Train Fund DK is 100 per cent hung up on the oil price. So, the Train Fund DK is something that has been agreed; you put in some assumptions and they are based on some estimates, and it is quite common that if prices then fluctuate and change what they do over time, you find another funding. That is the way to make such agreements, and there is nothing new about that. So, of course, the Togfonden DK stands with the investments planned for there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134226	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134227	Will the rapporteur be able to point out one economist who would recommend leaning towards the oil price of the Togfonden DK's investment just one economist if the rapporteur could mention the name of someone who would say that this is a sensible way of thinking? What is going to happen, and the Radicals will have to vote for it, is that we must once again increase our future investment opportunities, namely pensions, which we have already started in order to be able to comply with the budget law at all. But can the rapporteur mention just one economist who would recommend investing so heavily in public transport alone hung up on oil prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134308	I have not heard any economists warn against what was done when the agreement on the Train Fund DK was signed. I heard a lot of Left politicians shouting out that it would make that there were no private companies interested in bidding to take oil out of the North Sea. There we have seen exactly the opposite: on the contrary, there are more who are interested in it, despite the fact that some taxation is being introduced there too. So I think that, so far, it is the government that has reached the long end with regard to the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134338	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134340	Thank you. There are several questioners who have approached this in various ways: the radical leader, sir. Morten Østergaard is traveling, and his experiences and statements in connection with it. In particular, there is the fact that we should not expect the many Syrians who have come to Denmark, for example, to return; we must count on them to stay in Danish society for quite many years. It is quite clear what he has said about it. What is not so clear is what I would like to ask the rapporteur, namely what economic implications it has. I have the simple question: is it not true that if you base what the radical leader says here, there is a lack of funding for 2016 in what the government has put forward for the time being?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134432	What is incredibly difficult about the asylum situation we are in the world right now is that it is difficult, indeed impossible, to predict exactly how many refugees we will have. What is crucial for us is that the people who come here should contribute to Danish society as quickly as possible. We have not been very good at integrating into Denmark. We believe this is a task that lies ahead of us to be much better at it so that the people who come from other countries can also get a job and can feed themselves. We will put full force on that. But to control how many are coming and thus predict what it is going to cost in, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). We can't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134532	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134533	I agree that we can integrate much better, and we need to make many more demands. We see so little differently what it takes to ensure that people who come here actually integrate, but we can take that discussion at another time, because that is not what I am asking here. What I am asking here is what has been set by the economy in 2016 to meet the challenge, compared to how many come here and the tasks that municipalities and others have in connection with it. If you read the government's own publications and we have a common interest in reading such things as the Economic Statement that we received last week, it is quite clear that when there is a large increase in spending in 2015 • 1.5%. In real terms, it is among other things. bound up with the fact that there are quite a lot of costs to be borne for the asylum system. When there is a real growth in 2016 of 0.1 per cent, one writes on the part of the government itself that it is because there is once again a marked drop in the cost of asylum policy, which is tied up with the fact that one also has a bill in which people are pretended there is some temporaryity in this. So I'm just asking, isn't this a fact and then we can discuss the size of it afterwards, that if you put what the radical leader says, that this is going to take many years with the people who come to Denmark, then some kind of funding is missing in 2016? You cannot say how much, no, you cannot, but there is a lack of funding in 2016, as the government has done. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134705	We do not know how many new asylum seekers will come. And what the cost of those who are already here depends very, very much on the extent to which we manage to get people into employment. Well, that way, that's completely insecure. That is why the inventory is being called for, no one can deliver. I don't think so either, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself can deliver it, for on what should it be based?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134751	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134755	Thank you so much. There are no quotations from the Radical Left that poverty gives more work, said the rapporteur. I don't dare say anything about that, because I haven't applied for it. But at least I know that she said afterwards that increased labour supply provides more jobs. It's incomprehensible, but true, she said. Incomprehensible, but true I think we should try to stick to some understandable policy instead. Because it may well happen that something may be true, but if you cannot understand it, then it is not certain that there is a connection. That is why I would ask you not to use the bourgeois term that increased labour supply provides more jobs, because, in my opinion, it does not. You force some people into a rough situation, and if they get a job, they push somebody else away. That doesn't give you any more jobs. What I really want to ask is whether the rapporteur does not think that it is a frivolous policy if, on the basis of a reality-show-like television broadcast, sanctions are imposed on the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134910	I do not know what kind of claim lies in the fact that, on the basis of a reality show, some people had to demand sanctions for the unemployed. Christian Juhl on the day the strangers disappeared...).
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134926	That is the rapporteur speaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134928	It may be that we need the questioner to speak in the microphone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134931	Then the questioner gets round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217134936	That was a very short answer. The day the strangers disappeared was a broadcast that was on Danish Radio, which on reality shows tried to send out unemployed people to some employers who gave very dangerous working conditions. Against this background, there was a very trusted leader of the Radicals who said that we now need to tighten up the sanctions. That's kind of what I was asking. Is it serious policy that because one evening you are watching a television broadcast that has little to do with reality but takes out parts of reality, says that now we need sanctions? One could clearly hear from this minister that he had no idea what sanctions were being imposed on the unemployed. Is that serious politics? Is that the policy that Radicals want to pursue? Is that the background on which Radicals want to impose sanctions on the unemployed? It is tough today, and more is demanded on such a loose basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135035	It may not have been the same interview that the questioner and I have seen. What I have heard the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior say is that sanctions must of course be imposed if you do not accept job offers. It's in the rules as it is today. I have also heard him say that this is, of course, something that needs to be looked at. For what is of course the great challenge, whether you think the programmes have been set up sharply or not, is that there is a feeling that there are jobs that Danes will not take. And it will also be a declaration of failure for all of us if there are jobs in Danish society on proper conditions that the Danes will not touch.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135123	After all, we have finished with the two questions put by the questioner. The next question in the round is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135138	Thank you. We're about to have a bricklayer visit us, who's gonna patch up our basement, and it's gonna have to be really soon, because it's gonna have to be by the turn of the year. Because we use the craft allowance for this, which we have enjoyed very much at home with us, and I know that many other households have also been very happy about it. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur why it has been chosen to remove the craftsman's allowance. If the rapporteur responds to the idea that it does not provide jobs, then I do not understand why it has been chosen to spend money instead of increasing the deduction from trade union quotas. First of all, it's not something I think will make more people join the union... personally I don't. Secondly, I find it difficult to see how it should contribute to growth and employment that more people join a union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135227	I guess that's a few questions in one, but I'll see what I can do, and otherwise, Mr. Kim... Jan E. Jørgensen repeats his question. About the craftsman's allowance: It's too expensive, compared to what you get out of it. It is the richest people in society who make use of it. And all the evidence suggests that the things being done would be done anyway. I don't know if sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's basement would be allowed to sail in water if there was not a craftsman's allowance. In other words, there is no indication that tasks are being carried out that would not have been carried out anyway. We have retained the craftsman's allowance for a period of time because, at one point, we activated all the opportunities that existed to keep our hands on employment. However, we believe that we are there now, when there are other measures that are better.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135316	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135316-2	I am sorry that I asked two things at once. I can see that it can be a great deal to have to consider both the craftsman's allowance and the deduction of trade union quota. I can tell the rapporteur that my basement does not sail in water, certainly not, it just had to be made. I can also say with a guarantee that we would not have had it done if there were no craftsmen' allowances. What the rapporteur is saying is simply wrong. The craftsman's allowance leads to tasks which had not otherwise been carried out being carried out. Why else are there so many master craftsmen who will now have to get the fireworks going in January? This is because they no longer have the amount of work they have done in the past. So let me confine myself to one question: how many jobs does the government expect to get out of raising the deduction from the trade union quota?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135406	The reason why we are increasing the deduction for trade union quotas is not clear: we want to create jobs. It's a tax relief at work. That is why we can agree to it. We think it is fine, and then we think we have an interest in continuing to have a strong trade union movement in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135425	Then we have just the last question here in this round, and that's Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135430	Yes, thank you very much. The rapporteur himself referred to the future of the benefit system and said that when the Labour Market Commission bogged down its recommendations, the Radical Left was also prepared to be open and to look at everything and all possibilities. Does it also include looking at the financial framework? It is, of course, the case for the benefit commission that they should not make recommendations which make it all more expensive than the system introduced by the VKO and which the Radicals are so pleased with. If that is the framework, it will be difficult to make some improvements, or rather impossible to make improvements at one end, which will not have to be paid for by some deterioration at the other end. So my question is this: will the Radicals also be open to looking at the fact that we will have a larger financial framework so that we can ensure both the necessary security for the unemployed and an efficient and flexible benefit system at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135533	In other words, we are entirely behind the Commission's work. What I am saying is that when the Commission makes its recommendations, there is a political process in which the parties have to discuss those recommendations, and we are, of course, open to discussing all the recommendations. It is not the same as saying that we will agree with all of them. Of course not. But we are willing to discuss them all. We think it is extremely important that it stays within the financial framework, because it makes a very, very significant contribution to the fact that we actually have room for manoeuvre by 2020; that we have actually been able to make the financial law we have made this year, among others. Enhedslisten. The Finance Act is born of reforms, it would not be possible without reforms, and therefore there is no way around reforms. You have to constantly adapt society and society to what is real right now and what you can see on the horizon. But I can, contrary to Mr. Finn Sørensen imagine that you can make an even better benefit system than what we have today by changing some rules inside the system so that the people who are on unemployment benefits actually experience that it is a better system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135649	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135652	Thank you. After all, everyone agrees that we must constantly change as reality changes and that the policies we are making in here are, after all, a banality. What is crucial is what the content of the changes is. I almost got an answer to what I was asking. I heard that the Radicals think it should be kept within the economic framework. If that is true, I hope for a softening, I did not hear it, but I would like to hear it. In the case of unemployment benefits, the amount of the allowance is increased by half the period from one year to one and a half years, and this money must be found elsewhere; it costs approximately ECU 1 000 million at current unemployment rates. 700 million kr., we've been told, somewhere between 600 million. and 800 million. kr. This means that the conditions of the unemployed must be reduced elsewhere in the benefit system in order to finance such an improvement. It's the same with the coverage rate. If you increase the coverage of unemployment benefits, it can only be one end of the system, as Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Labour Market Commission have said, but then it has to be paid by the long-term unemployed at the other end through an even lower rate of unemployment benefit. These are the consequences, I suppose, and I would like the rapporteur to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135814	We stand on what is the mandate, we believe it should be within the financial framework, and there we disagree with the Enhedslisten. However, where I think the discussion is going to be exciting, I cannot understand why it is quite impossible for Enhedslisten to imagine that, within the framework, you can create a better benefit system, a benefit system that plays so well with our employment efforts, that what we get out of it is that people experience that it is better during the period they are on cash benefits and that they get a job more quickly. We believe that this is possible and we hope that the benefit commission can help us get some ideas on how we can also make it a reality. It is, after all, in the very last analysis about those people who are outside employment and who, more than anything else, want to get a job again, because having a job is the key to living the life you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135913	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then we go to the next one in line, and that's sir. Jonas Dahl as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217135929	My oldest daughter, Martha, goes to kindergarten in Aarhus. And when I step into the fox room, as her living room is called, I feel in addition to that natural noise of children playing the humility that hits you. It hits in the stomach when you meet the professionally skilled employees who work hard for your children, and all the other children in kindergarten. They work hard for the children to have a good day as they learn and evolve. The adults challenge our children and give them the most important of all security when we parents cannot be present. And Denmark is a particularly good society because it has traditionally been a safe society. The only thing is that our society's security is under attack and has been in recent years. The dismantling of welfare, the dismantling of the safety net in the labour market and the payment of the bill for the speculation of the financial crisis are all threatening security. I have taken along a small report from Weekly Letter A4 today, and it may be called "Worried enough" - the insecurity is nagging the happiest people in Europe. We are world champions of happiness, but if security ends up falling, Danish happiness is only on loan. We are currently experiencing an increasing inequality, and Danes are feeling a growing concern about losing their jobs. Therefore, there is only one option if Denmark is to be as confident to grow up in for the next generation for Martha and her playmates as it has been for us who are today adults: We must invest in the community, invest in the human being, invest in the planet. We must do so because it is absolutely essential for a well-functioning and secure labour market; because a strong and sustainable welfare society requires it; and because we owe the next generations a nature and a climate in which they can also live. It is also possible because we have helped to get Denmark through the crisis and because we have helped to secure the economic room for manoeuvre that offers opportunities for investment. There's only one way to go. We should not spend the burgeoning recovery on tax cuts and the starvation of our welfare societies. It will only pull in the wrong direction and lead to more insecurity and more inequality. It is therefore a problem that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left have not been able to convince themselves to change the unemployment benefit reform, because the present state of affairs creates an insecurity in the labour market and in the families concerned. However, with the Finance Act, we were able to throw out a rescue wreath to those people who are now in danger of falling out of the benefit system. After all, it provides a certain amount of financial security so that no families and people should leave home for that reason. But from the SF we will continue the fight for a permanent daily allowance solution. Fortunately, in a number of other areas, the Finance Act is moving in the right direction. We have abolished the mutual dependent for unmarried persons, we have improved the conditions for young cash aid recipients, and in the future, with the financial agreement, there is no obligation to support your girlfriend just because you share house and oatmeal. At the same time, we are especially helping young people who are trying or have expensive rents, and that makes a difference to these families. We have also secured 1 billion. kr. extra for the children, and it means a little more for the individual child, and it means a little less stress for the educators in Martha's and other children's institutions. It is crucial, because it is our children who must bring Denmark forward; when old age makes its entry, and we become old, gray and forgetful, it is the children who are growing up today who must take over. We secured 6.5 billion. kr. This is a massive injection. Denmark must continue to be the country where world-class medical treatment can be obtained, even if you have little cash in your wallet. In the end, it provides security. In the best of all worlds, we were able to ensure that the Danes did not spend any time at all in hospitals during their lives, which is why I am very pleased that we also managed to strengthen preventive action, focusing on reducing alcohol overuse, reducing smoking and getting a better diet. In the future, we will invest even more in prevention. It is simply a good investment. However, if it is to make sense at all to invest in health, it requires, first and foremost, that we have a planet to live on, and with the Finance Act we take two important steps towards a future energy supply based on wind and sun. We must continue to invest in green solutions, not only for the sake of climate, but also because in the future there will be thousands of jobs in it. In the SF we take the green transition seriously, which is why we are also pleased that we managed to allocate almost 1 billion. kr. to it, so that we can draw Denmark away from a black, short-term thinking towards a greener and more sustainable future. We made sure that there is now an easy track in Aalborg. This means that there will be light lanes in the country's four largest cities in the future. It's green, and it's good, and SF is Denmark's green party. On the other hand, it is coal black when some cynical and calculating employers speculate in hiring people from Poland, Romania and Lithuania and pay them a salary of less than DKK 50. It's an hour. This is at the end of the day at the expense of Danish jobs. It undermines conditions in the labour market, pushes people into unemployment, so insecurity increases, and so I am very pleased that we have succeeded, together with the government and the Enhedslisten, in investing 50 million. kr. in the fight against social dumping in Denmark. In the continuing fight against social dumping, a strong Danish trade union movement is important in ensuring Danish pay and working conditions, and therefore it is also an important victory that we received a higher deduction for trade union quota. It will have an impact on those who choose to stand in a real union rather than in a yellow discount version. In other words, in many areas we have turned the political compass in the right direction, and I think that we should also welcome the fact that the centre-left has shown that we can make important and essential and visionary agreements where everyone has had the will to stretch towards each other. It has helped restore faith in the centre-left in Danish politics, and it also gives the belief that we can win the next election. Together we can be a clear alternative to bourgeois dreams of zero growth, cuts in welfare and not least the privatisation of health, but then we must also continue to stand together and pull Denmark in the right direction, also in the future. I started by saying that we must safeguard security. Because insecurity must not, for all things in the world, take root in our very special society, and if we are to ensure that this does not happen, it actually requires that we continue to invest in our welfare societies and in our community, not least now that we have the opportunity to do so because of a responsible economic policy. For this reason, of course, SF also continues to fight for a permanent daily allowance solution. We will do that tomorrow, we will do it the day after tomorrow, and so will we in the forthcoming election campaign. Fifty thousand have lost their cash benefits. These are in themselves 50,000 good reasons for restoring security in the Danish labour market. We must choose to invest in the community, we must choose to invest in human beings, we must choose to invest in the planet and create better conditions for our children and the elderly, a safer labour market and make a significant effort to draw Denmark in a greener direction. We have a basic task: Denmark must also be a good and safe society in 20 years or 30 years when my daughter or your children jump on the bike and deliver their children in a kindergarten somewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140813	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of questioners inscribed, and the first is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140821	Thanks for the post. I should like to hear from the rapporteur that the trade union movement has nothing to offer and that the established trade union movement, the LO family, cannot have members if there is not a proper deduction, so that they have no professional evidence of being present and that it is only in relation to what deduction there is? I simply do not think that the rapporteur can be aware to stand up there and say that now we want to strengthen the LO family in the trade union movement; now they should not be with the yellow ones, because they are now being deducted. Is it really not the SF's view that the trade union movement has something to offer on the job market and on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140859	I would like to read it out if it did not go through clearly at the Danish People's Party. I read: In the ongoing fight against social dumping, a strong Danish trade union movement is important in ensuring Danish pay and working conditions. That is what I said in my speech, and I would be happy to repeat it if it could promote the understanding of the Danish People's Party. In fact, I think it is quite crucial that we have a strong Danish trade union movement. It also requires that people have the opportunity to join and that the trade union movement be given the opportunity to take the fights that are going to take place in the workplace. I think the trade union movement is so promising. In the end, however, we need to create opportunities for them and actually respect professional organisations. And that may sometimes be a challenge, at least a piece into the right wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140942	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217140942-2	It's really nice to read from your speech, you just have to remember to read it all. The next point on the rapporteur's speech paper is that you should not choose the yellow ones, but that you should choose the others and that it will help because you are now receiving a higher deduction for membership. And I just think that you completely ignore what kind of work the trade union movement is doing. I do not believe that it is only a question of what can be deducted from what kind of trade union movement you choose. I simply do not think that the rapporteur can be aware of standing here on the platform and saying: this is the only good thing from the trade union movement. No, what is good from the trade union movement is in relation to these cases of social dumping. It is very good that the trade union movement will be part of the public jobs when we make tenders. It is very good that the trade union movement can work with the municipalities and come in and see if the social clauses and other provisions are met. This is an important work on the part of the trade union movement. But I think that the work of the trade union movement is completely ignored when you stand here on the platform and say that now you help the trade union movement and now you come back. Because it is only a question of an increased tax credit. I do not think the rapporteur can be familiar with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141042	No, it's kind of about me thinking it's okay to reward people who want to be in a real union. I think there is a difference between the trade unions; I think there are real trade unions, and then there are some discount trade unions which, in the end, slap a little on the other people's agreements. I think that is really the challenge in it, and I think it is fair enough that we want to do something about it. This is the initiative we have taken. If you remember a little in time, it was the previous government that turned down the deduction from the trade union quota. It was the previous government, supported by the Danish People's Party, that did not give priority to the fight against social dumping. This government, which the SF has been part of or supported in recent years, has made efforts year by year to combat social dumping. This has been done with the trade union movement, but the trade union movement has said that sometimes there is also a need for political tools. This is where we take initiatives. And if you are finally going to talk about the eligibility of the trade union movement, not least in relation to the right, I think that the Danish People's Party might have lifted its finger just slightly through the 00s, as you had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141142	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141149	SF is very critical of the fact that three of the bourgeois parties will not spend more money in the public sector. Public consumption must grow, it is very important for SF. How does SF feel about the government here suggesting that public consumption in 2016 should grow with the least possible, i.e. 0.1 per cent.? Is that something SF is happy with?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141221	The financial bill we are now discussing, which will be the Finance Act for 2015, has a growth, as far as I remember, of 1.5%. in 2015. Then it is true that there is less growth in 2016. I would like to make a promise if the red block is still in power. I'd be happy to accept your help. Ole Birk Olesen, and if he wants to help out, then I have some fine Bombostickers who will probably behave well with Ole • apologize for the direct speech. However, in addition to that, I would like to say that we then have the ambition to look at how, in general, we can boost growth in society as a whole, but also in the public sector, also in 2016, if we are to negotiate a Finance Act with the Finance Minister and the Socialists after an election. We will do our utmost to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141305	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141307	After all, there will be parliamentary elections in 2015, and then there will be either a new bourgeois government or the current government, if it can find a majority. Is it a condition for SF to point to a new red government that the government will allow public consumption to grow by more than 0.1%. In 2016, as the government is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141336	I would like to say in general terms that the difference between the government which is now in office also has some weaknesses and that whoever, God better, should come from the right, is the zero growth we hear from the bourgeois parties, and the growth we can, after all, agree on in the red bloc, i.e. approx. 20 billion kr. That's 20 billion. kr. from or to. In fact, I think that is quite crucial; in fact, I think that is important, that is to say that we will also have public welfare raised. But, of course, it is also a question of creating growth in our society and creating jobs at all. This is, of course, crucial for us to continue to be able to have growth in the public sector on the other side of 2020. In fact, I think it is important to maintain a welfare society, so we will continue to give priority to that too. And can we help secure the 20 billion? kr. By 2020, we will be happy to contribute to this by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141427	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141434	I'd like to stay on the same track. In other words, the rapporteur was also one of the general rapporteurs when the SF party was in government and was also in the opposition period, when it was a bloodbath, a massacre of the Danish welfare community, if you did not have a very high level of public spending, where they were 0.8%. Of course everything was too little and where it was at least 1.4%. or more. How does the rapporteur feel about having sat in government and then could look back on the fact that in a three-year series, that is, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, there has now been negative growth? Well, how does Mr. Mr Dalsager. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141516	I stand fully by what we have done, even when we were in government. I didn't always think everything was easy, but it also took just a few years to clean up after the morass that VK and Dansk Folkeparti had left Denmark in. I remember a former prime minister who said that there were two lines under the line or was it three lines? We have cleaned up the Danish economy, we have restored confidence in the Danish economy, and I am quite proud of that. Has it been difficult, and has there been any hard parts in it? Yes, there has been, but sometimes you also have to take that responsibility, and we have done so by the SF. That is why I am also glad that, as we look forward, we can actually see that it makes a difference whether there is a red government or there is a blue government. 20 billion kr. In relation to the zero growth that you would like to see over in the blue block, what the government is proposing. Then you can always discuss whether it should be even more, but I can relate to the 20 billion. kr., because I think that actually makes a difference. So it is basically also about the fact that we have had to rectify what was left behind from the government of which the Conservatives were also part.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141623	The second question from Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141625	The debate about what it is you have had to clean up, i.e. the craftsman's allowance, the craftsman's offer and the craftsman's one and the other, we can wait. But there is no indication that the economic cycle is going to explode and that growth is almost impossible to tame. In other words, there are huge challenges in raising revenue for the state, which means that there is money for the welfare that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left would like to provide. So, from where is it, sir? Jonas Dahl thinks that the money should come to the growth he points to and wants? And the last question is: can the SF support and may the gods forbid it • a new red government with a public spending target of less than 0.8%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141718	I will then try to tell the Minister of Finance, when we hope to discuss government and perhaps also the basis on which the new government will have to work, that of course we would like to see growth in public consumption. And you can agree on a growth rate of 0.8%. I also think what matters is what we spend the money on. I would also like to say, with regard to the optimism mentioned by Mike Legarth, that I welcome the initiatives that we have also helped to take part in, with a growth agreement and so on, where jobs are being created in Denmark and where, in fact, thousands of jobs are being created in these years. That is the way we should go, and I think that is where we agree with the Conservatives and the whole political spectrum that it is a good thing that jobs are being created. I would also like the bourgeois people sometimes to sign for it a little when it happened, but that is a different discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141815	Next in line is Mr. Jakob Engell-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141820	Down here in the back row, I sit and I get a little tuning when Mr. Jonas Dahl raises his voice in the Chamber and talks about equality, public sector and all the other good that his party, SF, has helped implement. The fact is that one sounds a bit like a representative of OW Bunker, although one has basically helped to raise the gini coefficient, vote for minus growth in the municipalities and helped to create fewer public employees, educators, SOSU assistants and other public employees in the municipalities of the country. SF has now returned to its roots, you can see. You can hear that from the rhetoric, you can read it in adverts placed at various stations in the country, but is Mr. Jonas Dahl a proud man? Is he proud of the results that can be seen in black and white: minus growth in municipalities, fewer public employees and a gini coefficient that has increased despite a desire to do the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141918	Yeah, I'm proud of the things we've delivered in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141922	Sir. Jakob Engell-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217141925	It is either a great deal of self-confidence or a deep lack of self-knowledge that we are witnessing in this Chamber. I'm not quite sure which of the two is the most appropriate, but sir. Jonas Dahl certainly discuss with both the hinterland and his constituents. But I am thinking: now that, like the SF, you have returned to your political starting point, when you are sorry that the unemployment benefit reform has not been rolled back, etc. etc., when you have become lovers with representatives of the Enhedslisten, why is it that you have not used this unique opportunity to push the government further not just to invent an extra transfer income as it does every time it is in trouble? Why are we not really talking about the thumbs of Mr. Bjarne Corydon and force the unemployment benefit reform back to its starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142008	That may well be the lack of memory in the Left, but that benefit reform was something that the Left, in conjunction with Thulesen Dahl, made up, and perhaps one should take responsibility for that over in the blue block. Unfortunately, the Radicals have helped, but that is another story. But we have been critical of it, and we voted against it before Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt became a member of the Danish Parliament, but it was in 2010, when we turned down a benefit reform. So we have been against it since the beginning. It may not have occurred to the Left, and I would like to repeat it. Then there are these questions of zero growth. I don't think it's been fun. I would have liked us to have had a little more growth, but we have to say that it has taken time to restore confidence in the Danish economy after what was left of the bourgeois side. Now, with this finance law, we have actually succeeded with a quite significant boost, I think, of the well-being of 1 billion. kr. extra for our children's institutions, a clipping card for the elderly, 6.5 billion. kr. extra for the health of our hospitals. I think there is reason to be proud of that too. I actually think that instead of being so negative about this Finance Act, the Left should wear the Jahat and maybe be a little positive about the fact that there are actually a number of good things in this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142121	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142125	Then I try to put on the jahat, 'cause you have to. I'm gonna ask you about those promises, among other things. 12 billion kr. to the municipalities, which we can read about in a paper, which SF was also behind; these are promises that are always positive when it goes in some direction, as you want it to go. It's about two teachers in all the primary school classes, 5 billion. kr. extra for public wages, then there was something with 2,000 kroner. There was also an increase of 3 billion for all transfer incomes. kr. for extra development assistance. And I think that the list of promises made by the SF before the last parliamentary elections is infinitely longer than what I just listed here. Are these promises still being made by the SF, or are they said that the board is now being wiped clean, and are you happy and satisfied in the SF with the minus growth that has been in the municipalities over the last few years? Moreover, it is the cost freeze that is de facto what the government supported by the SF is proposing, funny enough in the year following the year that should have been re-elected. Are those promises still gone something SF goes to the polls, or is it like wiped out? Now the SF again stands in its rapporteur's speech and promises a lot of things extra for welfare, and therefore one just has to quietly ask: Why should we trust you this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142236	Well, I just thought it was really weird. However, I am quite sure that the Minister for Finance will be able to deal with an additional copy of the agreement that has been reached and on which we will be voting in a few hours' time. It's not a promise of a billion. kr. extra for our day care institutions. What we are going to vote on is the draft Finance Act if it has not come to light. Jacob Jensen. So I kind of think you should sit down and read it. I am, in fact, pleased with the things that lie in this Finance Act; we are actually introducing a rock card for the elderly, we are actually getting more money for our health care, and in fact we are lifting both the day institutions, the elderly and health. In fact, I think it is quite a good budget law, and I think that should be welcomed. I have also heard that the Left thinks that more money should be spent on health, so I think we should sign off on the fact that SF has actually succeeded in luring the government into spending even more on better cancer treatment and even more prevention. I actually thought the Left agreed with that. In relation to this debate on zero growth, I simply do not recognise the way in which it is put up. Because there is a problem with the municipalities not being able to spend enough money, among other things. because of the budgetary law we have made together with the Left, by the way. There is a challenge, and I think Mr. Jacob Jensen agrees with us. And now I see I have to shut up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142348	Sir. Jacob Jensen for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142350	I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl in that it has something to do with the budget law. The Budget Act offers some scope for sanctions, and the size of the framework is defined politically. The government has then chosen to say that the framework must be smaller year by year compared with the municipalities, and this is something that the SF has apparently supported. I really do recognise the things that lie in the Finance Act. It is true that this is something that needs to be specifically voted on. That's not what I'm asking. I ask about the promises made by the SF before the last election. Fortunately, we are faced with an election in a short space of time. There has been talk of 12 billion. kr. extra for municipalities, 2 teachers in all primary school classes, 5 billion. kr. for public wages, 3 billion. kr. for development aid, and I could go on. And now, sir... Jonas Dahl saw and mentions some of the things that lie in the Finance Act. There is, of course, a mile-by-mile difference between what has now been achieved in the Finance Act if you can claim it and then the promises that we have made, among other things. can read about in the Fair Solution, as was the election paper, which also SF went to the polls. So I ask quite calmly and with the jahat on: are these promises that the SF still expects to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142450	In all probability, this is the last financial law that will be passed before an election. Otherwise, we will have to change the constitution quickly. That is why it is clear that this is as far as we have come in this parliamentary term. In fact, I think we have taken some steps forward. I think we have regained confidence in the Danish economy. Actually, I think we've been lifted in some places. Have we done any hard things? Yes, we certainly do. It's part of taking responsibility. We have taken that on the part of the SF, and I am not really sorry about that. I'm actually proud of that. Then there are some problems, as Mr. Jacob Jensen is talking about, in relation to the framework in the municipalities. The problem is not the framework in itself; the problem is that the municipalities have not managed to fill that framework and use up to the ceiling that is because the sanctions have basically been too harsh. There is, of course, a small consumption, and I think the Left itself will recognize this; there is a considerable amount of small consumption in the municipalities. In fact, there is the art of using it or at least it does from the SF. In fact, we think that when money has been set aside by the state, in the Finance Act, to be spent in the municipalities for more hands in our day care institutions, for the elderly, for more health, that money must also be spent on it. So there is a problem if you do not spend the money allocated to welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142559	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142604	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the rapporteur's report. The rapporteur attaches great importance to the green transition and to the fact that SF wants a greener Denmark. After all, the green transition is supported by a broad Parliament. However, we are facing a challenge, and that is how we are going to fund the green transition from 2016. There I can hear from the rapporteur that one would like to have a more green Denmark so that the rapporteur's daughter and our other children can benefit from the things the rapporteur was talking about. I would like to ask the rapporteur what it is that they want to do greener. Is that more sea wind? Is it more wave energy or solar energy? And then I would like to hear from the rapporteur how this challenge is to be funded from 2016, as we cannot continue with the PSP solution we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142654	I think there are a lot of things we can do. Some of this has actually been addressed in relation to the fact that we are dealing with this draft budget today. It is a question, among other things, of course. about getting these heat pumps going. There are many of us who know them from private households. Therefore, there is now a challenge to actually get them rolled out on a larger scale. That is, in fact, some of the money that is being set aside with this draft budget. Then it's also about our traffic. This is about us now, for example. can get an easy track in Aalborg. After all, it is also about some green investments that actually make us believe that we can also create better public transport, can have a smaller CO2 so I think there are a lot of things we can do. But it is ultimately about us becoming aware of the energy consumption we have, of course, but also about how we can constantly transform more and more. In the major energy agreement, which is then not part of the financial bill, but as the Left is also part of the 'at least still away', we have also just put the emphasis on making the green transition, and I think that is really important and very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142804	A follow-up question from Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142807	Thank you. When SF spends speaking time down here in the Chamber saying that we need a greener Denmark, that is to say, that one is more ambitious, because SF is the greenest party, as the rapporteur himself said, I am a little surprised that it is about heat pumps and fewer buses that can pollute. I had expected there to be a higher level of ambition, but I am delighted that the SF does not go crazy on the green agenda. In relation to the funding of this green transition, which the rapporteur also referred to as agreeing across the energy conciliation circle, there is a common challenge from 2016 in how we are going to fund it here. There I would like to ask the rapporteur: should it be financed through the Finance Act in the future, with tax revenue? Is it from business, is it from private people? How are we going to finance this in the future, since we cannot continue to finance it via the PRS? And SF's challenge will be extraordinary if you want an even greener Denmark with more offshore wind turbines, with more wave energy. But it is clear that if it is only a little heat pumps, as we have agreed, and fewer buses, then it will not be a more expensive green Denmark. But how will the SF finance this forward-looking? That might be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142928	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217142928-2	It is true that in the financial agreement we have here today, the one we are discussing today, there are a number of initiatives both in relation to strengthened efforts for more nature and biodiversity and the environmental technology development and demonstration programmes here also called MUDP. This is, of course, some of the things that I am glad we have actually included in the Finance Act. Then there is also green national accounts and there is a green conversion fund. In general, there is a broad effort to strengthen the whole of the green area. I'm really glad we got through on this finance bill, and I think that's kind of important. Then there is funding that is lacking in relation to the parts that are going on in the energy conciliation circle, and I think that should be taken into account in the energy conciliation circle. As I understand it, these negotiations are still under way and I think they should be left to them. What I am dealing with today is the small billion kroner that managed to be allocated to the budget law for 2015, and I think that, in fact, many steps have been taken in the right direction in order to ensure even more greener conversion of our resources and, above all, to ensure a proper nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143029	The next brief remark comes from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143034	Thank you. I would like to turn my attention to primary school. When the SF went to the polls in its time, the teachers and schools were promised that there would be 2 teachers in the classes and max. 24 students in each class. As you know, neither became anything. Instead, teachers, which we have voted for a long way along the way, experienced legislative action. They were met with demands for a very high degree of inclusion of pupils who are difficult to fit into the normal classes. They have reduced unitary appropriations in the classes, reduced preparation time for the training they are required to undertake, and, of course, much less flexibility during their working day. I am actually very curious to hear what Mr. Jonas Dahl answers the teachers when they certainly ask SF: What happened to the promises? Why did we end up in a completely different place from what we would have been promised if there were a red majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143138	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143139	I do not think it is a secret that we have negotiated reform of primary schools. In any case, I do not think there are many primary school teachers who have not discovered that it has been debated in recent years nor have many children or parents of children of primary school age. I do not think that the reform and the conflict we witnessed and the confusion of it were particularly sexy. In fact, I think it is a good reform of primary school that we have done, which focuses on raising the weakest pupils in our primary school. This has, in fact, been very important for the SF. Would we have liked to see two adults in the class affordable? Yes, we did. That is something we said before the elections, and it is also something we have been working on. We succeeded a little, because it has certainly become an opportunity with the new reform of the primary school. I would have liked us to have succeeded further, but that is the way it is. When we have made a settlement, of which the Left is also a part, and I also assume that the Left can see itself in the agreement that has been reached, then I am happy to be in favour. I think it is a good reform of primary school that we have done. Are there things I could wish for were different? Yes, of course there is. I think that is the way the Left feels about the agreement we have finally reached, otherwise I would be surprised if they thought it was just perfect and, by the way, could not imagine anything better in the area of primary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143243	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143244	Thank you. However, we will then communicate our primary school policy to the citizens. That is our obligation. What I'm asking is, uh, sir. Jonas Dahl's answer to the teachers was not to parents and pupils and others who might be interested in primary school, but to teachers in primary school. What is the answer when they ask: why did we get a quite different result from a red majority than what was proposed to us? We had the prospect that there would be more teachers in the classes, fewer pupils, more resources, but we have, as a matter of fact, got the opposite, because we have also faced a great task of inclusion. I do not really want a record of what the Left has been involved in, because we will be on the mark for that. I ask how SF responds to the teachers who voted for SF at the last election in the belief that they would have a lighter everyday life as a teacher if there were a red majority, but how many of them experience that it is. also look at increased absenteeism and the fact that some opt out of the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143349	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143350	I think that what Mrs Tina Nedergaard is out in is such a time if I mix everything well in a bowl and touch it around a bit, it may be something funny comes out of it. I think it's a little weird. I should like to deal with the things we went to the polls on, but to link it with a reform of primary school and a high absence from the sick and then then try to say that it's all SF's fault, I think it's such a weird mess. I would have liked to have been able to afford two teacher schemes or two adults in the classes. I think that is important. That's what we said when we went to those primary school reform negotiations. It was also possible to create that opportunity in the reform of the primary school so that the municipalities can decide whether that is some of the things they want around. I think that is, in fact, important in relation to that part of it. What I basically say to parents and teachers when I meet them is: I didn't think the course that was about the conflict was very pretty. I think that's a shame. I think many are responsible for this. However, in relation to the content of the primary school reform, where we start to lift those who fall through, those who do not have sufficient skills to be able to read and write when they leave primary school, I am actually glad that we have a primary school reform that points forward and that hopefully can solve the big problem, it is that for many people they cannot read and write when they leave primary school. I am actually pleased about that reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143505	Then we move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143509	Thank you. I have followed the debate here with interest, and I have also noted that the rapporteur mentions health. I have also read the government's draft budget and can understand that health is a priority of 600 million. kr. in 2015. I would just like to ask what happened to the 7.5 billion. kr., as proposed in the Fair Solution, and with which health should be prioritised?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143539	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143540	Well, in today's draft budget, there is an overall increase of 6.5 billion. kr. over the next four years. If you take the last few years and look at what you have spent on health, then I would guess that, after all, a few billion dollars have been spent there if I am not entirely wrong. If you add it to the 6.5 billion. kr., which is contained in the Finance Act, I think we have come relatively far. Just before the summer vacation, a deal was made where we actually lift psychiatry by 2 billion. kr. So I think we have taken quite a lot of initiatives, not least in a number of areas which the bourgeoisie in all its great wisdom forgot and failed, because one was so busy pushing it all over the private and saying that if people had a health insurance, then the sacred grave was well preserved. In fact, I think we have taken a completely different direction. With this financial law, we are lifting the cancer effort, we are focusing on the chronically ill, we are ensuring that we actually get to grips with health checks, we have a number of initiatives in relation to prevention, to giving birth, to the medical patients who have been forgotten for years. In fact, I think there are a lot of initiatives here which point to health, so I am actually wondering why the Left is not actually happy that even more is actually being done about health. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143700	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143701	I fully agree with the rapporteur that then there are plenty of initiatives in the field of health that point forward. After all, the rapporteur himself mentions this kind of timid pool agreement of just over 2 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would just like to remind you that all the parties in the Folketing, except the Enhedslisten, are in that agreement. What I asked is the SF and the Social Democrats' own priorities in the Fair Solution, which says that health will be given a priority of 7.5 billion. kr. in 2015. What has actually been set off in the Finance Act is 600 million. kr. That is why I would just like to ask once more about the priorities: when will the 7.5 billion come? kr., as SF among others. Through a Fair Solution promised before the election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143804	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143804-2	Just for the record, we're not part of the government. We stepped out of the government. But we can leave that alone; it is a longer story that we can take on another occasion. If we simply take the initiatives that are being decided today and the initiatives that have been decided in October, when we confirmed the pool agreement of which all parties in this Parliament, except one, are part, the SF has helped to allocate 8.5 billion. kr. In the health sector, that is what we will be voting on later today, and with the payouts of the bet pool that were. Then, by the way, there will be some other things on top of the bet pool. So I actually think we've come quite a long way. I am actually quite proud that we have succeeded in giving such a high priority to health care • 6.5 billion. kr. Now to the medical patients, the cancer patients, the health check and, in general, to strengthen the preventive action and, moreover, to have prioritised psychiatry via the rate pool. Now I cannot return questions, but I would almost like to ask: what is that for the 8.5 billion? kr. one would have liked to have missed in the Left? You almost make it sound as if it is almost reprehensible that we are spending 8.5 billion. kr. In terms of health. Where is it that the Left wants to save, because they have to with their zero growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143927	I do not see that there are any more brief comments, so that was Mr. Jonas Dahl's last comment, at least this time. I would like to thank the SF rapporteur, Jonas Dahl, and welcome the next rapporteur, Mr Dahl. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217143943	This is one of the most important debates of the year, but if you look around, you can see that in several ways it is a little weird. After all, the Chamber is so arranged that the most important people are sitting up front. But it's empty. There's no one from the Left or the Conservatives in the front rows. All the honour and respect for those who sit farther behind in the Chamber I have been doing that myself for many years, and I have no problem with that. Now I can see that mr. Mike Legarth raises his hand, and I think that's okay, too. But otherwise, I find it rather strange that so few of the leaders in the parties are engaged here. The debate is also strange in that when we ask some questions, for example. on the left, on how to obtain 1.5 billion. kr. per On 1 January, by privatising and outsourcing tasks in the municipalities and regions, there will be no response. You just say, "Well, that's what we believe." There is no answer to where the money should come from, but the Left is using it in their draft budget. When we ask the Danish People's Party how it can be that you want more money for the welfare and change of the unemployment benefit system for the benefit of the unemployed, we cannot be told whether that is something you want to stand by. For everyone knows that the Danish People's Party will point to the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister, although Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will certainly not increase either the welfare of the unemployed or improve the conditions of the unemployed. Nor can you get an answer if you ask the Radicals how reforms, that is. cuts, the unemployment benefit system and cash assistance should create more jobs, that is to say, where you take money from people and make them poorer, and the unemployed are hit hard. That is just something you believe in, but you do not provide an answer to the effect of increasing poverty in society and creating more jobs. So this is such a rather mysterious discussion. But enough about it. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, we have reached an agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, because we think it is a good agreement that gives a little more equality in society than there is today. Similarity was the headline with which we went to the negotiations and managed to improve some of the reforms that have been implemented to the great detriment of those in society who have the least. We have got rid of the mutual obligation for cohabitants on cash benefits; it happens over two laps with a little now and the rest next year. We have improved cash assistance for unemployed parents and we have improved housing support for young people on cash benefits. These are things that are pointing in the right direction and with which we are very pleased. On the other hand, it was not possible to achieve a permanent improvement for those affected by the unemployment benefit reform, which costs tens of thousands of unemployed people their entitlement to unemployment benefit. It has to be said, however, that, after all, we managed to get a patch on a patch again, so that some of those who would otherwise be out of support will, after all, have a little support, but not a permanent improvement. This is good for those who are being helped and who would otherwise be bad. But that is not a solution. That is why I would also like to stress from the outset that for the Enhedslisten, the issue of the right to daily allowances and improvements for the unemployed will be something that we will have to involve in the election campaign and in the future. In fact, our basic view is quite simple: people who cannot get a job should be compensated for lost earnings, so they should have something to live on. Of course you have to take the job you're offered. It is necessary for the whole system, both cash benefits and unemployment benefit, to take the work on reasonable terms that is offered. This is quite crucial. But if you can't get a job, you can't get a job, you should be compensated. That is our basic view. But it is also the case that, both now and in a forthcoming election campaign and on ahead, we will, of course, work for the improvements we might have, so that people get the best possible support. Our approach to the financial law negotiations to combat the growing inequality has not become less important since we have seen the latest figures in this area. It is the case that inequality in Denmark has grown over a long period of time. We reject the bizarre view behind the bourgeois statements that unemployment benefits and cash benefits must be reduced from the point of view of the fact that the more people who become poor, the richer the society becomes. It must be worthwhile to work, it is said as an argument, but it is the case that if you are offered a job, you have to take it. You can't just choose the way it sounds in the debate that you can choose between cash benefits and work as you like. This is a way of discussing which is beside reality when it is claimed that there is such a freedom of choice. It's not there. We also encountered once again in these negotiations with the government into the strange calculation, the strange method of calculation based on the fact that the more unemployed there are and the poorer the unemployed are or the more they are whipped, the more jobs there are. We cannot quite understand the way in which this is done: when there are more unemployed people who are poorer, there will be more jobs. One day, perhaps, we should have a discussion here in Parliament about what I call alchemy, that is, the belief that people once had in the Middle Ages that with different chemical formulas they could ensure that iron turned into gold. This is the kind of economic thinking that exists here in the Folketing: the more you whip the unemployed, the more jobs there will be. Well, we think it's like the Alchemists' thinking; it has nothing to do with reality, it's some kind of dreaming. But it is nevertheless the case that every time we have this discussion, it comes out that you just whip the unemployed and just get a bigger job offer, as it says, there will also be more jobs. We don't believe in that kind of thinking. The crucial thing is to ensure that there are some jobs. The agreement we have reached thus brings about improvements for those in society who have the least, which thus help to increase equality. Fortunately, there are also some paragraphs in our agreement to combat social dumping. There are some significant green results. There are improvements in welfare, for children, better health care, better conditions for those who are going to have a child, and for the elderly, including the new thinking, that older people can get a rock card with extra home help that can be used at their own request. This means that you give it freedom with a little more home help hours, and then people can decide for themselves whether they want to use them to go to the swimming pool, to go for a walk, to go to the cinema or whatever else they want to do. In fact, I believe that this is one of the improvements that have been made to the Finance Act here, which will provide a much better development for the elderly, because I think that we will build on the thinking that the elderly must have greater freedom to choose for themselves what they need and what they want to spend their time on. There is also a more controversial point in the agreement: the saving in development aid. We managed to get it done in a way that is fairly okay and, at the same time, to put in place a further measure to help developing countries secure their tax revenue so that they have their own income to manage. Finally, I would like to say that, in general, we had an agreement on combating the use of tax havens in the Finance Act. We have made an agreement with the tax minister, whom the Left and Conservatives did not think was a good idea and therefore stayed out of, and we will in future also have an agreement with the Minister for Business and Growth on improvements in the area that must also combat the use of tax havens. So, overall, we think we've got a pretty good financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145023	Then we also have a few brief comments to make. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145028	Sir. Frank Aaen thinks that the fact that working is worthwhile is a bit of nonsense, you understand. For there are some rules of availability that apply and therefore it does not really have to pay to work. I should like to hear: is it really the ultimate goal of Enhedslisten that there is no difference at all between people's incomes in Denmark, no economic inequality at all, so that you get the same in salary, whether you work 20 or 40 hours, if you are not in work, if you are in work, if you have taken a long education and qualified yourself or have not taken a long education and qualified yourself? Is the wish from Enhedslisten the total equality so that there are no economic differences, or does Enhedslisten actually think that there should be some difference, so there is a motivation to make an extra effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145124	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145125	I think sir... Ole Birk Olesen is lost in the Left election manual, where there are various strange claims, including that Enhedslisten is in favour of Denmark being part of the Soviet Union, which is quite difficult for natural reasons. So that's not true either, but it's also in the Left Handbook. We are in favour of people receiving a salary that corresponds to their efforts, but it does not have to be the case that some people definitely have to earn 10 million. kr. I don't think there are any people who are 10 million. kr. Worth a year. And it has to be the case that if you are offered a job, you have to take the work on reasonable terms and otherwise you cannot get a daily allowance. I think that is what I said in my speech. It is our view that people should have a job; that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145216	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145217	I have not read the Left's discussion manual at all, and I did not make any claim about the Enhedslisten. I asked a question about Enhedslisten's policy... The Enhedslisten always troublesatises that there is economic difference in society... and I can then understand that the answer from Mr. The aa is that it is actually necessary for there to be a certain economic difference. There must be a difference between working a lot or working a little, in economic terms. There must be a difference in whether you do not work or work at all, in economic terms. Enhedslisten thinks there should be an economic inequality. Enhedslisten may just not think it should be as big as today, but it should be there. It has to pay to work. But then I just think that sir... Frank Aaen should not stand and say that the fact that it is worthwhile to work is nonsense, as Enhedslisten believes it should be. It just shouldn't pay as much as we think it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145310	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145311	I have not said that it is nonsense to say that it has to pay for work. I'm saying it pays to work. So, all figures show that those who are in work have a higher income than those who are not in work. Perhaps, with some clever calculations, there should be quite a few in society who get more so as not to work than if they went to work. This simply means that wages are too low net, for example, but you just cannot stop working either, because the requirement is that if you want unemployment benefits, you have to accept the job you are offered. So it just gives itself that it pays to work, and you can't just choose not to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145400	Then we move on to Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145404	Does Enhedslisten think that a person who takes up a full-time job has a higher income, receives a higher salary than the person who is on public support, who does not have a job but is paid by the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145422	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145424	I know that you can do different calculations to show that some people who are not in work get more than those who are in work. For example: If you make the elementary calculation error that you should fail to do, if it is the case that you go to school, you do not even have to go to university, that is to say, to include it, for example. If you receive cash benefits, you have a cheaper day-care institution, you may have housing benefits, and then you compare it with someone who is in work, who unfortunately gets a low salary net, and then you fail to take into account the social benefits to which you are also entitled when you are in work for a low salary. I would just like to say that, of course, it is worthwhile and worthwhile to work, and so it is also possible to do so in 99 out 100 cases, and in reality you just cannot choose not to work because you have to work if you want to have a daily allowance, for example. and gets offered work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145531	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145532	I think that is a shocking answer, that is to say that the Enhedslisten cannot make it clear. 'Cause that's what Mr. Frank Aaen didn't. He then came with such extravagance wrapped up in something that you couldn't really conclude anything out of anyway. Is it not reasonable that the person who takes on a job and who helps to lift the burden and make things run around has a motivation and a gain by taking a job compared to the person who chooses to say: No, I don't want to stay at home and let myself be financed by the government? Is that fair to say? Or does Enhedslisten want a citizen's salary? Is that it, sir? Frank Aaen and Enhedslisten actually believe that everyone should just get the same pay? That was also the starting point of the previous question, I think. Where do we have the Enhedslisten? I fear that we are going there because we are not getting a clear answer. I would like a supplementary question, because we have some time, I can look at the list of questions. Why has the Enhedslisten supported a government that has had negative public growth three years in a row when the Enhedslisten has had the parliamentary responsibility to ensure that the policy itself is adopted? Isn't that almost hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145644	I would just like to stress that speaking time applies quite independently of how many brief remarks there are, otherwise we might have benefited greatly from it in some situations. But then it's sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145655	Now it is Conservative and Left who have helped the Finance Minister to create a law on expenditure ceilings which limits how much welfare can be developed. We're very sorry, but it's not our fault. It's sir. Mike Legarth's fault, because he raised his hand at the wrong time in our opinion. And then I have to say that I have answered that, excuse me, because we must not say nonsense, that we are in favour of people having the same, whether they are at work or not at work. We think that people should have a job, and we also think it is a good idea that those who have a job have a reasonable income. We also think that those who cannot be offered a job cannot get a job must also have something decent to live on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145746	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145752	Thank you. There is another point I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree with. When you look at this Finance Act, a lot has been said about the welfare society and how you contribute to it. However, can the rapporteur not say here that when you look at what has been set off in 2015, relatively little money has been set off in 2015? Can the rapporteur not confirm that, when we look at the growth planned for 2015, it is, in large part, the case that we are achieving a growth of 1.5%, precisely because, we think, there has been a misguided immigration policy and immigration policy, which means that there is this very, very high expenditure pressure of around 4 billion. kr., which gives this growth in 2015? Then there are many sympathetic actions that I also at Enhedslisten have fought for, but which really only come through in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145840	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145841	I can repeat what I said before, namely that we would have liked it if the financial framework or the economic space, or whatever you would call it, were greater than what is at stake. However, we have to recognise that a massive majority in this Parliament has adopted expenditure ceilings which make it very difficult not to get the money, because in our view that is relatively easy to do, if you like, but to be allowed to use, because there are ceilings on the public expenditure. They have therefore been adopted by a massive majority here in the Folketing. We're very sorry about that. But to believe that we could change the ceilings was beyond our reach and our ability to conduct politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145930	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217145934	I would actually like to sign that the rapporteur here quite frankly says how it is. In this Finance Act for 2015, there's not much welfare. Then, of course, you have some intentions to bring something in the long run to something more well-being. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur can not also confirm that since 2011 and until 2013 we do not now have the reporting out of the municipalities for 2014 yet we can see, if we just look at the elderly area, that there has been minus growth. We can see that when we look at what the municipalities out there use in the area of the elderly. And that is at the same time, when we look at demographic developments, we see that there are also more older people. So when the government says that you want welfare and that it is heartblood, it may be that you say it, but that is not what you have done so far. Now we have to see how it is going to go with the older billion, which last year was financed and sent out to the municipalities, i.e. whether it actually went to the municipalities. At any rate, there is some indication that it has not all gone to the point. Yes, of course it has gone to the municipalities, but perhaps not to the elderly area. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that when we look back from 2011 to 2013, we can see that we have had minus growth in the area of older people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150039	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150040	It was precisely one of the big fights that was around the 2014 Finance Act, where Enhedslisten fought for the money that was given to the elderly area to be given in a way too, so you were sure that they went to the elderly. We couldn't get the government to do that, and so it was that the bourgeoisie in this Chamber decided to help the government that the billions we got through to • because we have to say that it was the Enhedslisten who brought it billions into the field and got it into a Finance Act was given in a way so that you couldn't be sure that the money was spent for their purposes. We're sorry, but it's not actually our responsibility. It is, in fact, the responsibility of the right that the money was given in a way that could not be certain that they really went to the elderly. May I just say to the Danish People's Party, in peace, that it is true that we did not have the sums raised as much as we would like, but the Danish People's Party has said they will support a Prime Minister's candidate who has declared zero growth as its target. I would be a little concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150147	Then we move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150153	Sir. Frank Aaen started his speech by complaining about the lack of pings in front of the Chamber. Perhaps this is because the intensity of the debate and the belief that it is moving something is a bit vague; it was then the dramatic feature one could get with it. And when you hear Mr. Frank Aaen's speech as rapporteur is certainly not supported by the fact that Mr. Frank Aaen represents a party with an economic policy that in any way helps bring Denmark in a sensible and constructive direction. It's gonna be sir. Frank Aaen and I may not agree on today, just as we rarely agree on much here in Parliament. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Frank Aaen is a question of principle as to what importance Mr. Frank Aaen believes that the private initiative and the creative desire of entrepreneurs and people starting new business have for the economy and Denmark. Because when you hear Mr. Frank Aaen's party speaks, it is always about greater public growth, the unemployed, who must have better conditions. It is very rarely about how we bring Denmark forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150257	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150259	I have to say, I am completely incomprehensible about this. I heard this morning, I think, some people were talking about how to ensure real economic development, export and get Danish knowledge out on the world market, given that there are now more countries, including China, which, after all, are more committed to renewable energy, energy protection, energy saving and the environment. These are precisely some of the areas where Danish business is most powerful. I guess I have to say that neither Conservatives nor the Left have been at the forefront. It is the left, it is various popular movements and environmental organisations that have pushed for Denmark to take the lead in developing new methods in the field of renewable energy, in the field of environmental protection, in the field of energy saving. This is Denmark's future. Left and Conservatives, on the other hand, have always believed that just a few more tax cuts were given to business, more jobs came. It has proved notoriously not to be like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150409	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150410	Well, that in itself to hear, sir. Frank Aaen talk about business and export is welcome. This shows that, after all, there is a part of the economic cycle that is also recognised by the party Enhedslisten. But now it is the case that the backbone of the Danish economy is the very many small and medium-sized enterprises that hire, hire and fire people every day. 20,000 people start business every year in Denmark, and small businesses are the backbone of our economy. You rarely hear anything about them in the Enhedslisten. But when I ask about the private initiative and the position of private enterprise in Mr. Frank Aa's world view is due to a debate I had with Mr. Frank Aaen's spin doctor, sir. Pelle Dragsted, in Radio24seven yesterday morning. Here Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself to scold on a 19-year-old girl whose crime was to cycle around and seek work from 75 different employers and then be offered jobs. May her cheeks be flared, was the answer from the Enhedslisten. Is that something you want to translate into your future economic policy, and is that, moreover, a statement, Mr President? Frank Aaen can back up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150512	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150514	Now I have not heard that broadcast and what our excellent colleague Pelle Dragsted has said. I guess I'd be a little careful taking sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's interpretation as being comprehensive. I just want to say that the Enhedslisten, every time it has been debated in here, has said that we want to support small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. in terms of being able to develop new production in the field of environment and energy. We have supported this every time. On the other hand, we have said to V and K's constant talk about tax relief for companies that tax relief for companies is not a help for small entrepreneurs. Tax relief will only benefit if you have a surplus. So we have always said that we want to do other things to help small businesses. Tax relief is for large companies, and we do not need to support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150619	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is next to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150622	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Frank Aaen says it must of course pay off to work. But sir... Frank Aaen elaborates on what Mr Aaen has to say in concrete terms. Frank Aa's world view? I mean, if you, for example... gets 6 kroner. in the hour more of going to work than being on cash benefits, that is enough in Mr. Frank Aa's world view, is that enough? You get in mr. Frank Aaen's world view is something out of going to work, if what you're pulling home is 6 kroner. In class?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150700	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150702	No, I think there are employers who reward their employees far too little, for example. Down in Netto. While the owners of Netto now it is no longer A.P. Møller, but it has been for a number of years shoveled money home on Netto, the employees who had a very low salary. If we look at a newly trained SOSU assistant, the salary is far too low. And there are plenty of places where we think that the wages of those who really work hard and make an effort should be higher than it is today. Then I know that the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that we just have to lower the daily allowances. That's your policy. I just want to say that, and it is not certain that you quite know it, because I am not aware of it, but the lower you set the daily allowance, the lower the wages of those who are the lowest paid, and therefore it is no solution to reduce the daily allowance. It's just more poverty. So in reality, you should unite with the Enhedslisten and make sure that the lowest-paid people in this society get some higher salaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150816	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150818	We are willing to look at the level of transfer income in Denmark, but above all we want to reduce the tax to the bottom, namely to introduce a bottom-up allowance for those who are in employment so that you do not pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 you earn. But I'm glad that Mr. Frank Aaen says 6 kroner. is too little. Well, there's something we agree on. I just think it's weird that sir... Frank Aaen says that 'cause that's it, sir. Frank Aaen actually says that the agreements concluded by the Danish trade union movement and that the wage level approved by the Danish trade union movement is apparently not good enough for Mr. Frank Aaen. Does it not give any consideration to Frank Aaen as to whether his point of view may be a bit strange? So one really has the view in Enhedslisten that the wage level, as the Danish trade union movement has said OK. Because, just isn't good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150921	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217150922	It seems like it's kind of part of the debate here... as if you haven't gotten very much into Enhedslisten's policy, and peace be with it. But we do not agree with the Danish trade union movement, for example. have not ensured that the lowest paid have received some better wages. We have said this openly, and I am happy to say so here today. We sometimes think that the priorities of the trade union movement are wrong. No doubt about it. May I just say that tax relief can well be a method, or rather, it is actually a method we support so that the lowest incomes get more out of their payments. It should be noted that both those who are unemployed and those who are in work who need lower taxes, because otherwise we will increase inequality in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151009	Then the next brief remark from Mr. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151015	Thank you for that, President. Congratulations on the financial agreement, you might say. Now I was a little sad that I came to be among those leading people who cannot then be said to be taking part in the debate, because I am now taking part in the debate and doing so with great pleasure, and Mr. Frank Aaen, too. I have a question about development aid, because the Finance Act both raises and lowers it. So we are raising it because we are counting a greater proportion of what is happening in Denmark in relation to the reception of refugees and there should be 2.5 billion. kr. extra 2 500 million. kr. additional costs in 2015. When you count it in, you raise development aid. But then you had to find that money somewhere, and then you have among other things. Some things have been cut back on development aid. What I'd like to ask, sir. Frank Aaen on, is it true, as one can read from the Finance Act, that Enhedslisten, if the cost turns out to be at the level one is already expecting them to be at, has accepted a commitment to find 0.5 billion. kr. extra in savings on development assistance in autumn 2015. And if it can be confirmed that one has committed itself to the one where Enhedslisten imagines itself then to find the 0.5 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151128	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151130	I would like to make two positive comments to Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I was pleased to see that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl came into the hall some time after I complained that there were not so many on the front benches but welcome to, I'm glad. I also welcome the concern about where development aid needs to be cut. We share it completely. I do not know whether the Danish People's Party fully shares it, but it would of course be very unfortunate if we had to go out again and find some savings on development aid. We are against that, we have been saying it all along. We have then said that if this should happen, then we will have to negotiate on how this can be done most gently to the poorest people in the world, and actually we succeeded here in the first round. We will also try to achieve this in the next round, if it comes to it. We hope that it will not be the poorest in the world that will suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151224	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151227	That was an incomplete answer, and now I am taking part in the debate all day and also hearing the debate. You can do that in many places in the house, and I think Mr. Frank Aaen is familiar with. I have also put questions to several previous rapporteurs, and I have great pleasure in being able to put questions to Mr. Frank Aaen and would be very happy to take part in the debate, including with Mr Aaen. Frank Aaen. But that also requires that Mr. Frank Aaen relates to what I'm asking, so we can get some answers, too, because then it's gonna turn out like that, right? So now we have an area such as development aid, which has been so full of financial legislation, because we have had to find funding of 2.5 billion. kr. I would have liked to say, in addition to the cost of the asylum system within the country, here for 2015. In that deal, sir. Frank Aaen then undertook a commitment to save extra 0.5 billion. kr. In the field of development aid. That's understood, isn't it? That is something we have committed ourselves to. If the cost is at that level, you have to find 0.5 billion. kr. extra on development aid. Is it too much to ask for a probability of where Enhedslisten expects to find the 0.5 billion? kr., which you have undertaken to find in autumn 2015? Or is it just because it's probably coming after the election, and you're counting on you not to suck up on these things, since we can't get an answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151339	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151340	We have been through the whole budget and found some savings that we thought were right. If we are forced to do this once more, we are also trying to find savings that are quite right, to the greatest extent possible. We have not yet come to that, but we will, of course, assume that responsibility. I would just like to say that it is not Enhedslisten's fault that a massive majority in this Parliament has decided that expenditure on asylum seekers should be financed through development aid. So, if we were the ones who decided, we would have to find the money outside the development funds, but it is again one of the places where they say "and I think that is also the case with the Danish People's Party." The money should be found in the development budget. We are opposed to this, but if it happens, if it is necessary, because we have to take care of those who seek asylum in this country, then of course we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151444	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151449	Thank you. I want to hear what public growth in the economy The Enhedslisten really wants. What is the policy of Enhedslisten in relation to how much the public sector's economic framework will grow in the coming period?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151506	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151507	Let me start with the concept of growth. In other words, we are very concerned that when we talk about growth, it is on a sustainable basis. That means that the environment must be able to cope with it, and that is why growth for us is very much within, for example, the area of growth. renewable energy and energy saving, and it is in the area of welfare that is also sustainable. Our starting point is that expenditure on the common welfare, for schools, for the elderly must follow the general development of income in society, i.e. GDP, if you want to use that concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151548	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151551	I'll get that straight. The general trend in income, i.e. the trend in prices and wages, is that what we are talking about? No, that's not what we're talking about. Okay, then, sir. Frank Aaen just elaborates on that. That is to say, if we have a starting point where growth in the economy is negative, does that mean, according to Enhedslisten, that you also have to cut down in the public sector, or how do I understand it? Or if you have a starting point where the economy in general has to increase, let us say 0.7 per cent, as it seems at the moment, for 2014, is that the level that Enhedslisten operates in relation to public economic growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151627	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151629	Now we have to be very careful to regulate public expenditure year by year, if I may say so, because if we now, for example, are going to have to do something about it. Having some years of negative growth, as we have had, it would only deepen the negative growth of the economy if, at the same time, public budgets were cut. So we look at it over a number of years and then we say that the costs of common things, welfare, schools, etc., must follow general income development or GDP development in society. However, in the years when there is a crisis, the common costs should not be reduced. It would only deepen the crisis and increase unemployment. There we have to accept that, for example, for a period of time. This is the only way to help the economy in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151721	The next brief remark is from Mrs Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151728	Thank you. I understand, sir. Frank Aaen like the Liberal Alliance is concerned with lightening the tax at the bottom, so that people who do not have such a large income can have more money for themselves, and so there are also more people entering the labour market. That's why I'd like to hear Mr. Frank Aaen, when Enhedslisten has entered into a debate with the agenda item to have the tax relieved at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151756	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151758	We did so in the tax negotiations three years ago, when we went in and worked hard for it. Unfortunately, this changed because the government chose to make a tax agreement with the Left, which meant that, instead of the tax cuts coming at the bottom, they were given to business and to the very richest in society. We were very opposed to that, but it wasn't our fault. It was the government's and the Left's choice that it should be so. Then I have to make it clear: I think it should apply both to those who have low incomes, for example. have a low pension or a low cash benefit or benefit and those who are in work. We believe that it is all the groups that have low incomes that should benefit from tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151845	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151847	Thank you. So let me clarify my question. Now it is the Finance Act that we are discussing today, so why was it that the Enhedslisten did not bring this item to the agenda when we had to discuss the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151900	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151901	It was in fact the case that we had several proposals on how we thought we could increase tax revenue, for example. by introducing a millionaire tax or by taxing financial transactions that we thought could really help the public economy. It was not the same thing that we could get a majority in favour, not even of the Radicals, I would say, and that is why it was not implemented. But then we would have liked to use that money for tax relief at the bottom, certainly. Now some money has been set aside, partly for more health and partly for other welfare improvements, and we then used that opportunity to spend as sensibly as possible. In other words, if we had had the chance to raise more income and thus create the basis for tax cuts for low incomes, we would have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217151951	Then I have not recorded any more brief comments, and that means that we can thank Mr Beazley. Frank Aaen and prepare for the next rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217152006	Here again we are faced with a financial bill from this government, which will increase public spending quite considerably instead of facilitating taxation on Danes. The government always thinks it is more important that the government itself can spend more money than that the Danes, who have worked for the money, can spend more of them. One would think that Denmark, with one of the world's largest public sectors, had a public sector that was expensive enough in advance, and one would also think that it was needed to do something about the fact that Denmark has the world's highest tax burden. Last week the OECD again issued its annual inventory of the tax burden in its 34 member countries, and Denmark again came out as the country with the unconditional highest tax burden. Denmark is the country where a combined marginal tax of 66 per cent is paid. of his income. People who pay top tax in Denmark go from Monday morning to lunch break Thursday to work for the state, and only after lunch break Thursday and the rest of the week will they be allowed to work for themselves and their loved ones. Denmark is also the country where you have to pay tax already of the very first crown you earn. In Denmark people are not waited to tax until they have made enough money to take care of themselves at a reasonable level, nah, here with us they are taxed long before they have made enough money to just buy a rye bread without butter. It is also in Denmark that cars are charged up to 180%. registration tax on top of VAT, which is also one of the world's highest. Therefore, the most sold car in Denmark is a Volkswagen Up, for many Danes can only afford small microcars with very little space and very little safety. Meanwhile, the most sold car in Sweden is a Volvo V 70, because the Swedes have no registration fee, so they can afford to buy a good family car, although they also have a public hospital service, free training and cash assistance for Swedes who do not have a job. These world-record taxes do not want the government to do anything about, for the government imagines that it always knows best what the welfare of the Danes is. The idea that the Danes could get more welfare if they could be allowed to keep more of their own money so that they could decide for themselves what the money could be used for is very remote from the government. A few years ago, the Prime Minister, who was not yet Prime Minister, went to elections with the slogan: Welfare or tax relief. So the claim was that a good life and well-being is only something that can be gained from the public sector and that one could not have a good life at all if one could instead get rid of cheaper taxes. But there is plenty of welfare associated with the fact that a family can change their Volkswagen Up with a Volvo V 70, so that Mom and Dad and the children can get the baby carriage, the traveling bed and the dog from Copenhagen and home to the grandparents in Jutland at Christmas. There is also plenty of welfare in the fact that the retired couple can go on winter holidays in Thailand on top of camping holidays in the summer in Denmark, and it is also well-being that it is possible for Mom or Dad to work part-time while the children are young so that they do not have to be so many hours in day nurseries and kindergarten. Therefore, the opposition between welfare and tax relief is false. It gives welfare that you can decide more about your life and decide what your own money should be spent on. This summer, Politiken reported a survey of countries in the world with the most welfare for citizens made by the U.S. Harvard University. The world's best welfare society is according to the study New Zealand, and then comes Switzerland, then comes Iceland, then comes Holland, Norway, Sweden, Canada and Finland. In a ninth place comes Denmark. A ninth place is also a fine location, but it is noteworthy that it is not the case that welfare in Denmark is best, even if we pay the highest taxes here in the three best-placed countries, New Zealand, Switzerland and Iceland, we even have tax pressure, which is between 13 and 21 percentage points below the Danish level. There is no contradiction between welfare and tax relief. As in the other years with this government, we can now see that the government has overestimated how much the public sector would cost this year. In particular, the municipalities have managed to deliver their service production cheaper here in 2014 than the government expected when it presented its Finance Bill for 2015, which is a joyful news. It's like going to the supermarket to make your purchases, and so there are offers on a number of items, so the bill gets smaller than you expected. But the government doesn't see it that way. It considers that it is a major problem that it was not as expensive to run the public sector as it had been planned. Many times this government has told the municipalities that they must be better at spending all the money that has been set aside, and now that we are dealing with the draft Finance Act for the new year, it certainly does not matter to the government that this year it turned out to be cheaper to run the public sector than planned. It just ignores the government; then the public consumption just has to grow even more than in 2015, so we get the missing consumption in 2014. This is why the Government's Finance Act now operates with a growth in public consumption of 1.5%. and not the 0.8%, which was the budgeted consumption growth for 2015, when the draft budget was tabled in August. When you haven't spent so much money in 2014, but still will spend the same money as you planned, in 2015, the difference between the consumption in 2014 and 2015 will also be greater than planned. This is not the rational way to run any other organization or activity. If you have found that you can run your business cheaper than you expected, then the cheaper operation must of course be the new starting point. It may be that new money is being used in new areas, but it is assumed that the old areas will be able to proceed satisfactorily with the level of expenditure observed this year, and not only will expenditure be increased unconsciously, irrespective of what things have been shown to cost in the past; at least it will not be done in rationally run organisations or companies. But this is how public expenditure is being driven towards ever-new heights, regardless of the fact that in the past it has not been possible to spend as much money as had been planned. The government does it even if it can't afford it. In August it became clear that the government's draft budget had a budget deficit of 60 billion. kr. Since then, it has become apparent that the government has been too optimistic in its expectations. The deficit will be much higher in 2015 and it will also exceed the EU limit of 3.0 per cent. of GDP. Therefore, the government has decided that it will temporarily grant the Danes a tax rebate if they raise or convert some of their pension savings. When the discount is temporary, the expectation is that the Danes will make large use of it, and then all the pension billions will be taxed in 2015 and then the deficit will disappear. On the other hand, the possibility of taxing these pension billions also disappears when their owners actually grow old and retire, and then the money in the public funds, when they are most needed, is missing to pay for health care and care for the more elderly. Liberal Alliance would like the Danes a discount on the tax payment of their pension savings, but we would not under the government to be able to make up its excessive public deficit with money, which should only have been taxed in the future. We have tabled amendments to the draft budget which will make the public deficit 10 billion. kr. less, and we can also come up with more amendments that can reduce the public deficit even more, but the government will not waste after nourishment, it would rather just tax pension billions early. Perhaps this is because the government does not expect to sit so long yet; it may think that it does not matter what happens to the Danish economy after the next elections, because it does not believe that it will be re-elected. It can only be hoped that this analysis is correct, but there will be a clean-up work for the new majority, which may be in the Folketing after the next elections. Liberal Alliance is happy to participate in this clean-up work. However, the Government's draft Finance Act for 2015 will vote against the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217152949	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Camilla Hersom from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217152958	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance proposes, in its amendments to the Finance Act, to cut 4 billion. kr. in the public sector in 2015, i.e. the 4 billion. kr., which the government will add, and an additional 8 billion. kr., which will be used to assist what is called productivity improvements, i.e. 12 billion. kr., which the Liberal Alliance alone will cut into the public budget. But what does not appear from the amendments is where that money is to come from. So, what is to be cut back on in the public budget? Can Ole Birk Olesen make us smarter today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153044	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153046	After all, we have taken the report from the Government's Productivity Commission to our attention. The government has asked some experts to calculate whether the public sector can be operated more efficiently if productivity increases and they then come out with an answer. The answer is that the public sector can operate 10%. cheaper without getting worse by operating more efficiently. The government has then thrown that answer into a garbage can and said it can't use it for anything. But we've said, okay, let's do it. Surely we should not have a public sector that is 10%. more expensive than it is necessary to provide the service that is needed. And that's the starting point here. I cannot say in detail how Herning Municipality should streamline by 11⁄2%. a year for 7 years, because I do not sit out in Herning Municipality, but I know that Herning Municipality can also be more efficient, and I know that the municipalities can, on average, be more efficient by 10%, because that is the answer from the Government's Productivity Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153153	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153154	The government is already trying to make the most of the public crowns, but the Liberal Alliance does not have a proposal at all when one imagines that one should reap 12 billion. kr. next year, which areas should be the main ones? In other words, is it on education that we must first and foremost make it more efficient, is it on health that we must first and foremost make it more efficient, is it in children's institutions, is it on care for the elderly? You have to have some idea of that, because it doesn't just happen when you say you want it. There must be concrete plans for how to actually reap those gains. Does the Liberal Alliance have an idea of that, a plan for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153232	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153234	The Government's Productivity Commission has examined the field of education, i.e. the school area, and the area of the elderly in detail, and found that there is a 10% increase in efficiency. However, we are not in favour of the detailed management of the municipalities; we are in favour of framework management. We are in favour of some budgets being put in place in cooperation with the municipalities and for the municipalities to figure out how to implement those budgets. That is how it works in large international companies too. It is not the case that the head office tells the country office and every branch in the country office in detail where the efficiency can be found, but sometimes we are told that we will have to run our business more efficiently, because others, for example. is cheaper to produce the same and just as well. That's why something has to be done, and then you find out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153323	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153327	It is clear that Liberal Alliance Ole Birk Olesen would rather talk about the size of cars than give concrete answers to how welfare should be given priority, how these savings should be found. I have a specific question as a follow-up. In addition to the 12 billion. kr., which the Liberal Alliance will cut in various welfare areas, the party has proposed in another amendment to the Finance Act to charge 3.4 billion. kr. in user charges in the health system. They're gonna have to finance the Liberal Alliance's tax relief. How much does Mr. Ole Birk Olesen it's gonna cost you to see a doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153409	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153411	First of all, I would like to say that our public sector framework management plans do not differ from the government's plans, i.e. the government that Mr. Rasmus Prehn supports. The government also says that we can make the public sector more efficient for 12 billion. kr. with frame control. The government can't say how the 12 billion. kr. to be found, just as I cannot say how our 12 billion. kr. in 2015 must be found. So there's no difference between the Liberal Alliance and the government. Then there is the user fee to go to a private practitioner and specialist. That is where we propose to pay 130 kroner. per Once again with a maximum ceiling of DKK 1,300. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153452	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153455	One can be somewhat alarmed on behalf of the weakest groups in this system, so I would like to ask a follow-up question: are there some groups, for example. caring for elderly or children's families, single mothers or other things that need to be exempted from paying, or do everyone have to pay the same to go to a doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153517	Yes, there are groups that are exempt. Pensioners and children are exempt from paying the DKK 130. in our model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153526	Then we move on to the next person who has short comments. It's sir. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153532	I'd like to dwell on this with the Productivity Commission for a while, because it leans on Mr. After all, Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance are very much in line with the arguments here. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Ole Birk Olesen can confirm to me that even the same Chairman of the Productivity Commission, Peter Birk, has said that it will be birds on the roof it is the quote to give himself to use an efficiency potential before one has actually realized it because the things they have put forward are uncertain. Is it true that the inventory, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions, is accompanied by a warning against taking advantage of this money before achieving the efficiency?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153624	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153625	That's right. That is why we are not proposing to spend the money until the savings have been made. We propose that the money should first be used to ease taxes, among other things. at the bottom of the income scale when the saving is made. So that means that after the municipal negotiations have been carried out, where the framework for municipalities has been adjusted by 11⁄2%. downstairs and told them to stay 11⁄2%. better this year, which is why they can get 11⁄2%. If you have less money, you have the money at your disposal, and then you can lighten the tax at the bottom, as we suggest this money should be spent on. After all, we want there to be no taxation of the first DKK 7 000. of the monthly salary of all Danes at work. That is why we want to make the public sector more efficient. Indeed, we have a very great desire that people should be able to support themselves before they have to start supporting the state through their tax payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153718	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153720	Thank you. I am not quite sure that the way to pursue economic policy will be quite well preserved, but let us move on to another question to which I would like a clear answer: the Liberal Alliance would like to have minus growth in the public sector and spend that money on tax cuts. Is it a requirement on the part of the Liberal Alliance that a negative growth policy should be pursued in the public sector before support is given to a new bourgeois government? You can say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153753	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153754	We support a new bourgeois government, and then we have the expectation that if we have decisive mandates for that government to come in, we can also get some of our policy implemented. However, I cannot stand here and say that I am sure that we will be successful, that there will be an increase in the efficiency of the public sector, so that we can lighten the tax for all Danes at the bottom of the income scale so that they do not have to pay taxes on the first DKK 7.000. It is a policy that we wholeheartedly support, and if it were so miraculous that the Danes gave us 90 mandates, it could also be implemented in contrast to the Social Democrats and the SF's Fair Solution Plan from before the last elections, but we cannot know whether the other parties will help us implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153834	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153839	Thank you. Basically, the Danish People's Party does not agree that it should be cut so strongly to the bone in relation to the public economy. That's why I'm not gonna go into it like that. But it's just that when there's a question to Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen, we can hear from the government parties that what you want in the Liberal Alliance is very black. However, is it not correctly understood that in the government's 2020 plan it is exactly 12 billion? DKK to be found in the public sector by 2020? The public sector must do better, must make it more efficient for 12 billion. kr., so make it smarter and better and make it 12 billion. kr. cheaper. Is that not what the government has put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153918	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217153920	It is true that the government has a plan to make 12 billion more efficient. kr. Until 2020. What we say then and that's probably why the government parties are so up and running, is that in one year you can find 8 billion. kr. by efficiency improvements. That seems to the government to be far too ambitious, while we think that the government is far too lame when it says that 12 billion can be found alone. kr. 12 billion kr. is equivalent to an efficiency increase of 21⁄2%. of public sector output. I don't know a single company in this country that wouldn't be able to streamline at least 21⁄2%, also quite faster than by 2020. So we say that it has to be 10%, we have to be more efficient for the next seven years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154009	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154011	We in the Danish People's Party disagree with the Liberal Alliance on this. But to return to the government's 12 billion. kr.: Now many questions are being asked to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen on how to do it. Did Mr. Ole Birk Olesen noticed that there is somewhere, such in the press or elsewhere, or in the Finance Act, where it says how to find the 12 billion. kr.? Well, have the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Liberal Alliance. Ole Birk Olesen found out what it's like to find this 12 billion. kr. that's written in as an income in the 2020 plan? Are they spoken for in what the government has put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154042	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154043	No, there isn't, and we've asked many times. Both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and the Left and also the Conservatives, as I recall, have asked in consultation with ministers how they here 12 billion. kr. must be achieved through efficiency improvements. What's the government's plan to do that? And the answer is about the same as ours, namely that it should be found, by scaling down the framework, that is to say, the framework for the municipalities, the framework for the regions, the framework for the state; it all needs to be scaled down, and then the efficiency comes well, because there is not so much money out there. That is also our answer when we propose efficiency improvements for 10%.: The frames need to be scaled down.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154126	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154129	That was great. Thank you. I don't know a lot of people like sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who can say with great contempt and with a cutting voice the State. It's like it's one of the worst things in this society. This is a little strange, because I thought that the state was the Danes, that the municipalities were the Danes, that the public sector was the Danes. This is something we have built together. If we didn't want it, we could just not build our society the way it is. I would like to acknowledge that there must of course be some rich people in this country around Saxo Bank and surroundings who must have a party to vote on, for those who refuse to give anything to the common. But I do not understand how one can take the view that the state is not our common one. So, at home we have a common economy; we have our money in the bank, where we share a little about how wrong things can go, and we are part of an insurance company where we share how wrong things can go when there is an accident, etc. We also pay our taxes, even with great pleasure we can see that my old father has been to a nursing home, an uncle has been to a hospital, and another's aunt had been to a university etc. What is the reason for such contemptuous talk about the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154252	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154254	Well, actually, I don't think I have a cutting voice. But it may well be that I also have a certain criticism of the state in my political luggage, or it may not be; I do. And I remember once where the left had it, too. I remember once when the left felt that the state was part of the class society's apparatus of power, which was used to hold down the working class on behalf of the ruling classes. But then something happened to the left, so that the state became the property of the left, and the left sat down on the state, and then the left became the ruling class, and then one stopped criticizing the state's exercise of power. You thought the state was really good, and the treasure couldn't get high enough. The tax on the working masses could not be high enough for the left, and if it were for the Enhedslisten, the tax burden, which is now 48-49 per cent, would well be 65-70-80 per cent. Maybe we should deliver all our income to the state if Enhedslisten could get his way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154358	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154401	Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Ole Birk Olesen had followed in class at the university, he had also heard the left-wing talk about the state's double character. It's not that hard to understand. After all, the state has a task of welfare, but the state also has a task of power to which we must pay close attention. And I'm really happy that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was also aware of the detail, for one must be careful that the state itself does not become a power, but becomes a welfare system. So I'd like to go over to these small tram cars: is there anything wrong with if the Danes choose a car that doesn't fill very much in a very crowded capital or doesn't use so much gasoline or can get around more easily and actually have a good safety? You can call Volkswagen and they'll explain how safe it actually is. What is wrong with taking environmental considerations into account? What is wrong with using public transport? What is wrong with thinking instead of just blindly polluting?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154501	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154502	There is nothing wrong with the Danes choosing small cars. But we can only note that the reason the Danes are doing so is because they cannot afford a larger family car. For the Swedes, who do not have a registration fee, larger cars are chosen. That's one thing. The other thing is, sir. Christian Juhl's idea that because the car is big, it is more polluting than a small car is wrong. It is the case that microcars run around 24 km on the liter, and when we are dealing with some of the bigger and more expensive cars, they are up to being able to drive over 30 km on the liter for the best models. After all, there has been a technological development in cars too, and one can benefit from this if one is willing to pay a little more for a car. But you are not in Denmark because it is too expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154547	The next brief remark is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154553	Thank you. I would really like to come back to the minus-growth issue. Back in April, Mr. Anders Samuelsen tells Everything exactly what they require in terms of economic policy. And the quote is this: "It is more likely that Thulesen Dahl will give himself on economic policy. If we need our mandates, this is where we have to be paid, it is as simple as that. We need to get negative growth in the public sector, and we will get that as well. I would really like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there will be less growth if there is a bourgeois majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154630	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154632	I can't guess. That is the honest answer. What I can confirm, however, is that economic policy, the efficiency of the public sector, the use of money to ease the tax burden on working Danes, are at the heart of the Liberal Alliance's programme. That means that this is where we will seriously demand influence for our mandates. I am not fully aware of what other parties in the bourgeois bloc will demand and see as being absolutely central to their participation in civic majority cooperation. In the past, it has been the case for the Danish People's Party that it was especially concerned with immigration policy and older people's politics and also that early retirement should have some more money. That, then, is what will be united after the next elections. And just as one could not predict how Enhedslisten would be united with the Radical Left in this parliamentary term, one cannot predict exactly what the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party's cooperation will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154743	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154745	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that it is very central to the policy of the Liberal Alliance to work for that minus growth, and I know that it is not possible to foresee how the mandates will be distributed. But the rapporteur must have given some thought to how to make his influence felt if he joins a bourgeois government. What are you gonna do to be able to work for this minus growth? I would really like to hear what the rapporteur intends to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154812	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154814	But we will do that by going to negotiations, among other things. on the Finance Act and say: we want the public sector to operate more efficiently. The Left also has that, because the Left also says that there are 12 billion. kr., which the government wants to save by operating the public sector more efficiently, the Left will also save, and then we can talk about how the 12 billion. kr. must be used. It may also be that we can talk about something more if we have a lot of influence, but I cannot predict what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154848	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154852	Thank you. If there is something that is clear now for all of us, it is of course that the Liberal Alliance wants a blue government after the next elections, and it also wants to make economic policy the central issue where the Liberal Alliance must have influence. If there is something we may share with the Radical and Liberal Alliance, it is probably a bit of a sight on the Danish People's Party's outbid policy. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who says on 9 September of this year to Ritzau that it is empty talk when the Danish People's Party promises tax relief that it is not the Danish People's Party that the Danes can rely on when it comes to getting the world's highest tax burden off, so that it can be felt. At DF you have to settle for empty talk. How does the rapporteur actually think that the term 'empty talk' should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154954	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217154956	Well, I am not impressed by the way in which the Danish People's Party presents its policy to the electorate. I do not think it is fair to say that all proposals that cost the Treasury money will be taken into account, while the proposals that are then put forward, which could then save some money that could give money for everything that you want to spend money on, are much smaller and cannot even finance everything that you say you want to. I'm not impressed with that. This reminds me a little of the Social Democrats and the SF before the last elections. That is why I can sometimes be annoyed with the Danish People's Party when we have debates about taxes being too high in one area or another, and the Danish People's Party just says: Well, we also think that the tax should be lower there. I think the voters must understand that the Danish People's Party does not have the money to say that, and so I would like to make it clear to the voters that if they want to have lower taxes in Denmark, then there is in particular the Liberal Alliance they can vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155057	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155059	I shall then understand that when you may enter into a future cooperation in a government, either as a support party or as a part of the government, there are some who have some issues and some others who have some other issues, and then the Liberal Alliance can live with the fact that the Danish People's Party is mostly responsible for empty talk. Does the rapporteur still think that the Danish People's Party stands for empty talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155128	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155130	In relation to the financing of some of the many things they say they want to do, it's very empty talk it's about. But I feel very good about the members of the Danish People's Party. In many areas, I think that it is sensible people who have some good basic ideas about many things. I would be somewhat more nervous if I were a member of the Radical Left and had to negotiate with the Enhedslisten. So their economic policy is completely on the moon. They use a number of completely different methods of calculation than the rest of us do. So all other parties in the Folketing, as long as the Social Democrats and the SF are in government, use the same methods of calculation, the same common methods of calculation, but the methods of calculating Enhedslisten are not at all related to anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155215	The next brief remark is from Mrs Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155219	Thank you. The Danish People's Party cheats the voters. The Danish People's Party pretends to have more money to spend than they really have, and they tell the voters that they can get more good gifts if they vote for the Danish People's Party than they can actually get. That is how the rapporteur spoke to BT in November. - Sir... Ole Birk Olesen elaborates on what the Liberal Alliance means by the Danish People's Party cheating the voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155259	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155301	I have, of course, just done that in relation to the question that was asked before. I do not think it is really proposing a lot of things and saying that money will be spent on lightening taxes here and there and that money will be spent on better public services, both in one place and another, when you do not have funding proposals to match all the spending proposals that you put forward. That is what I mean by it and what I also explain in the quotation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155333	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155336	As I heard the rapporteur in an earlier reply, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that Dansk Folkeparti had some good basic positions. Is it a good basic view that the Danish People's Party is cheating the electorate, as the rapporteur has already said?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155359	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155401	I guess that's not really a basic attitude. I guess that's such a political strategy. When I say this with a basic attitude, it is partly because we recently had a debate in the Chamber about equality prompted by a motion for a resolution from the SF. There it was, sir. René Christensen here on the platform and said that it was not so important that we were all equal. What is important is that we are a prosperous society and that those who feel ill are raised to a proper level. I agree with Mr. René Christensen in, and this is a little in contrast to what the Left stands for, where it is problematized, that there have been some who have been very skilled and therefore made a lot of money, and makes it a problem instead of making poverty a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155447	The next brief remark is from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155450	Thank you. How long will the reduced growth of the Liberal Alliance last?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155456	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155459	Seven years. Seven years at 1.5%. efficiency per year in the public sector gives a total of 10 per cent. efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155509	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155510	After that, we have the size of the public sector we need, we have to assume. I am a little surprised, I must admit, that the rapporteur, like the great value-policy lighthouse on the right that he wants to look up to be, cannot mention a single thing that we are promising in the public sector today and that we do not have to promise in the future. Is there nothing at all that the rapporteur would like to say that we simply should not do any more? Is that pure saving? Is it only the salami method that we see from the Liberal Alliance, or do we have the courage to point out just one thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155545	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155546	Well, I can give you quite a lot of examples that I think the money is being used incorrectly in the public sector. For example: I think it is wrong that the public sector is quite consistent and, regardless of the subject area we are talking about, higher absenteeism among employees than similar areas in the private sector. Because then something's wrong. Either the working environment in the public sector is so bad that people get sicker there more than they do when they are private employees, or there is something about the working culture that needs to be done about, and both are management responsibilities, either to provide a proper working environment or to provide a proper working culture. So I'd like to do something about that. Then there are many municipalities, for example. is a myriad of communication staff. I'm thinking, why do you have to have so many spin doctors out locally? Then there are luminous benches, and there are people who spread good karma on the bike paths, who are also employed by the municipality, and in this way you can find a lot of that kind of strange projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155645	The next brief remark is from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155650	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I understand that the tax concessions that are so important to the Liberal Alliance must primarily go to larger cars and charter holidays. If you look at what the current government has done with tax relief, you can see that it has been with a slightly different focus, namely to boost employment and jobs, and of course to some extent we have succeeded in doing so with the 28 000 more jobs and a falling unemployment. If the Liberal Alliance were to adopt the same principle, as I have actually heard the rapporteur say at other times, namely that tax relief should actually go to create more jobs and more growth in the private sector, can I get an answer on the settlement tax which you have proposed should be abolished? Does the rapporteur think that the abolition of the tax on family-owned businesses will boost the economy, and that is what I am talking about? Will this boost private growth and jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155747	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155749	The good thing about tax relief is that it serves the purpose that people can keep a fairer share of their income, that they can expand their private consumption with things that make their lives better, while motivating people to work and to work more and thus create growth and increase employment in Denmark. I do not want to rule out any of the things, just because I am now talking about the good thing that an older couple can go to Thailand during the winter holidays, because the couple have been able to keep some more of their money. That is a good thing, and I do not want to sneak out like that and say: it is just charter holidays. It's welfare, it's private welfare for the married couple. But there is no doubt at all that our policy leads to more employment than the policy of the government and the policy of the Radical Left. Just take the government's tax reform, which will make it advantageous to work. It is the case today that for 330,000 people there is a small financial incentive to work. When the government's tax reform is implemented, it is 250,000 people who have a small financial incentive to work. If our policy is implemented, only 92 000 people have a small financial incentive to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155911	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155912	Now the answer is somewhat in contrast to what the Treasury has assessed. In a reply to the Tax Committee to question 351, the parliamentary year 2012-13, it is estimated that abolishing the tax will have no positive structural effect on growth and labour supply. But that is not what the rapporteur is saying here, as I hear it. Does the rapporteur disagree with the Ministry of Taxation in that assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217155940	I'm sorry, I didn't get the answer to that. Well, the reason I mentioned the many areas in which tax relief helps was to say that it is not just one or the other. I agree with the government when it says that there is not a great employment effect in facilitating the settlement tax. I think there is, but let's just start with the government figures. Then there is something else at stake here, namely that we think it is fair that people who have spent their whole lives paying taxes on their income can be allowed to pass it on to their children as a gift, either before their death or after their death, without having to pay taxes on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160021	Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160024	Now it is a well-known fact that under this government there has been a minus growth economy in relation to the municipalities. Over the last three years, some 1 billion have been spent. kr. less in the municipal sector than in 2011. Isn't that very good? Can the Liberal Alliance not praise the government for the line that is being taken and, incidentally, is continuing largely into 2016, which operates with the approximate cost freeze, zero growth, as some call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160052	Budgetary discipline on the part of this government has been considerably greater, it has to be said, than the one that was elected. I remember how to go to the polls on that famous Fair Solution Plan, which the current Finance Minister was responsible for drawing up where there should be a growth in public consumption of 1.4%. a year. So it is quite a lot compared to what you have actually had. It has to be said that the reality may have been the surprise of both the finance minister and the entire government and the Social Democrats and the SF, and fortunately the reality was influenced. You didn't just keep your policy going. There were then some voters who felt cheated by it, and I understand that, but the alternative had been to run the country financially down.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160143	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160145	It could be very possible. I would like to ask, on the same street, whether the rapporteur would also praise the government for ensuring that there are now about 11 000 fewer full-time jobs in the municipal sector than there were when the government came to 11 000 fewer. I know that this is in complete contrast to what was elected, but I do not know whether we can get a little praise from the Liberal Alliance in relation to the government's policy, which is actually in some way the direction that the Liberal Alliance wants, namely that the public sector should not only be kept quiet, but that it should also be restricted. That is what the government's policy has brought about. Can we hear a praise from LA in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160229	That's about it. 800,000 civil servants. Of them, as far as I remember, about half are employed in the municipalities, that is. 400,000. 10% of 400,000 is 40,000, and the government has then reduced the number of public employees in the municipalities by 11,000. It then represents about an efficiency of 2.5%. over the three years the government has been sitting there. What we are proposing is an increase in efficiency of 10%. over 7 years. So over seven years this government, if it continued its course, would probably have made it more efficient by approx. 6% where we propose 10%, and that is not quite as ambitious as our policy, but it is a good piece up there, so I would like to commend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160318	There are no more authors, so thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217160337	Thank you, sir. President. The Finance Act as it stands is not designed for the Conservative People's Party. We have had a debate on it and we do not support it, nor have we been invited to another set meeting. We regard it as a red Finance Act, which first and foremost extends the public sector, recruits more public employees and, in general, points in the wrong direction, so in my speaking time I will explain what we would have done if we could have decided. Denmark must be a robust society where the Danes can be safe, both in relation to their private economy, in their homes, and when they move outside. It must be cheaper to buy groceries, tax on work must be reduced, and public spending must be kept quiet. It is paradoxical that a country with the highest tax burden in the world has a bunch of deficits. It should be thought that, when we have a world record of taxes, there was enough money at our disposal, but unfortunately that is not the case. After all, we think that the Danes themselves should be allowed to give more priority to what their money should be spent on. The family and the home need more focus. Too many people are hit by break-ins... it needs to be stopped. We also want to combat gangs and violent ravages to a greater extent, and we need to take tough action against international cross-border crime and, above all, against thieves, whom we know to be their starting point in Eastern Europe. We would like to give priority to the police and provide them with additional funds to prevent and solve the many burglaries that still plague Denmark. Today, the police have more tasks than they can do, and there is a need for a general strengthening of efforts so that the police can safely deal with gang conflicts, organised crime and the far too many burglary. We want many more policemen on the street to strengthen police action against daily gang crime and organised crime. All Danes must receive a deduction via the housing job scheme when they have their homes repaired when they have their homes maintained, because it creates jobs and healthy and safe housing. We want to freeze the land, so Danish families are sure what they have to do with financially in the future. We cannot, will or must not accept that Danish families can risk having to leave house and home because of the increasing ground debt. It is simply unworthy. On the other hand, we say no to the fact that some people should be exempt from tax because they are union members, because union membership is a private matter for which other taxpayers should not be involved or paid for. The Danes' security and economic freedom is what we Conservatives want to give priority to: better more police officers than that we provide special tax relations to union members; better cheap groceries and a fixed ground debt than increased public spending. The Conservative People's Party will give the Danes more freedom to decide for themselves in a safer framework. It is quite wrong that Danes, who make an extra effort and at the same time create jobs for others, should be penalised by having to pay top tax. As an absolute minimum, it must be the case that you can keep half of every penny you earn yourself. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Therefore, the top tax should be reduced by 6 percentage points, which would bring the marginal personal tax down to 50 per cent. By lowering the top tax, we ensure that the 500,000 Danes who pay that tax today will never pay more than 50%. of the money they make themselves. Then we will also do something for the first money that is made, that is to say, the bottom tax, by introducing a higher employment allowance, and that means that all those who are on the labour market and who stand up every day and take care of their affairs will have greater economic room for manoeuvre. At the same time, there is a need to ensure that it is better worth taking a job. Back to the root cause, which is a great and increasing burden for a great many homeowners: it risks tearing away the carpet under many homeowners, especially in and around the big cities, and therefore it is an important focus area. There is a need for tranquillity in two areas, so that homeowners are not forced to leave home or be tied to their homes. Therefore, the land must be frozen at its current level and regulated only by general price developments. In this way we guard Danish families against unpleasant surprises in their private finances. About groceries: Danish families and traders must be burdened with as few taxes as possible on food, groceries. Today, Denmark has the EU's sovereign highest prices, as much as 42 per cent. above average. This hampers private consumption and therefore we will abolish 28 specific taxes on daily goods which make living more expensive for Danes and cost valuable time and labour in companies. They are selected on the basis of interviews with the retail industry and represent the most meaningless excise duties. Moreover, it will also have a positive impact on the negative border trade, which costs merchants growth and employment especially in southern Denmark. We will also allocate money to strengthen the efforts of doctors and nurses on weekends and on holidays as well as to increase the quality of medical care. We will therefore set aside funds to combat overcrowding in the medical services and strengthen emergency efforts by ensuring that doctors and nurses are present when patients need it, including on weekends and on holidays. And then we'll take action against the overcrowding so that all patients get the best possible treatment. Patients should no longer lie on the corridors or wait a long time to be seen because of understaffing in the wards. We Conservatives want to maintain the housing job scheme. The current system has created 5,000 full-time jobs. If the deduction is increased, it is expected that more households will have an incentive to set major projects in motion, and therefore we propose that the amount of the deduction be doubled from 15,000 to 30,000 per year. person in the household. The scheme also provides families with concrete and much needed help in a busy day-to-day life. We are certainly not the party that wants to deprive the Danes of a helping hand in an otherwise busy everyday life. So for the preparedness, which some will save on: the state rescue is there to prevent and remedy major disasters and accidents. Hurricanes Allan and Bodil stressed the importance of a strong and well-functioning preparedness. The emergency response did the job, but not much more is needed before it can get in trouble with personnel and equipment in large-scale or long-term tasks, and what happens then? Then we will have floods and damage, and it will cost even more to repair the damage that is there. Then it is better to prevent. That is why we are proposing to strengthen the state rescue service to cover the cost of extending the current number of conscripts, which will take care of these tasks, from 420 to 520 a year, as well as the association of 100 volunteers to each of the state emergency centres, as well as to equipment and uniforms. The last case I want to strike a blow to and have chosen to prioritise today from the platform is children's hospices that we would like to have on the Finance Act. I fully informed you about this at first reading. During the pool negotiations, we have achieved part of it. After all, when an terminally ill adult needs the last care and care, there is actually a hospice ready to help, but when a dying child has to say goodbye to life, it is referred to the departments of the current hospitals. When we look around, in Germany, Holland, Britain and Sweden, they already have hospices for children. It's established. That is why we were also pleased that we received a grant for a children's hospice in the recently completed movement pool negotiations. It was a conservative matter. The funding is a good start, but it is not enough with one, and that is why we hope for greater willingness next time we have to negotiate it. I was just about to say more humanity, but leave it alone. However, we are hoping for more accommodatingness in the negotiations for the next few years. These were the words of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161257	Thank you. First question is Camilla Hersom from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161300	Thank you. Now I noticed that the rapporteur said in his speech that more doctors and nurses would be given priority and that there would also be a higher occupancy in the country's hospitals on weekends and on public holidays. During the first reading of the Finance Act, the rapporteur also stressed that the Conservative People's Party would give priority to health, and said in this respect: and I have said that we will find the money. The fact that one does not just find it described in a single word, as the Socialist rapporteurs would like to read it, does not mean that the money is not there. So my question to the rapporteur is whether, since then, at the third reading, we have found out how the Conservative People's Party will give health the promise promised to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161353	This is a very good and relevant question, and of course we do. And, of course, we have also tabled an amendment in which we set aside 700 million. kr. to this area. So now there are also clear lines around it and clear talk, so we will deal with that later tonight. But the proposal has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161411	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161412	But where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161421	After all, we have a change of priority order, and we have briefly told you, and I would like to run them through, so that it can be the framework for the other issues, and I do so briefly, delivered our own financial act over with the Finance Minister. But first to what we wanted to do and let me briefly run through it: we wanted to abolish these taxes on groceries, which I just explained. It costs 2.5 billion. kr. To lower the tax to 50%. of last earned crown costs others 2.5 billion. kr. The ground blame must be frozen, it costs 700 million. kr. A higher reduction in employment costs 2 billion. kr. The housing job scheme costs 1.9 billion. kr. And then there are some minor items, including 700 million. kr. to what I was talking about now, with doctors and nurses and increased effort. Where we find the money is here: with zero growth we find 4 billion. kr.; when the green cheque is abolished, we find 3.3 billion. kr.; foreign aid is maintained at 0.8%, we earn 600 million. kr. I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I Then we abolish deductions for trade union quotas, which means 1.6 billion. kr. Then we remove it 1.5 billion. kr., which the government has set aside for welfare improvements, and then we roll back foreign policy reliefs for 700 million. kr. It provides a total exchange of 11.7 billion. kr., so here there was funding crown to crown, and then we even have a pool, a profit we can take off.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161545	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161549	You can hear that mr. Mike Legarth, like he's giving the answer a little bit, and I take that as if you actually realize that when we had this discussion last time, Mr. Mike Legarth didn't explain where the money was to make a boost to the health care system. But Mr. Mike Legarth might agree with me that all of this only fits as long as it's possible to find some 4 billion. kr. in savings in the territory of the State? This is the prerequisite for the way in which we wish to table our amendments, namely that more than 4 billion will be saved. kr. in the territory of the State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161636	Now I have to be very technical when we get such economic questions, so I will read out the letter that I handed over to the Minister for Finance during the sitting. I have been to a conciliation meeting where I found that the Minister for Finance was not so well reminded. So I'd like to review what it was like we found the 4 billion. kr., because we acknowledged that at the time we did not plan to open the budgets again in the municipalities. Now I have seen that the government has done so in the context of the asylum debate, but we did not. That is why we said that we would only take it on the state budget, and it is therefore said that there are reserves which total 2.7 billion. kr. In addition, our financial bill has a surplus of 700 million. kr., which means that there are 550 million more details. kr. to be found on the state budget. The 2.7 billion. kr. is available from a reserve for activity-derived and technical amendments of 500 million. kr. kr., the reserve for the government's legislative programme, government initiatives of 350 million. kr. and a reserve for the Danish EU contribution of 200 million. kr. So there they are taken, and then I could imagine the Minister of Finance asking: can you do that? Yes, you can, and the Minister of Finance and the government themselves have done so, in other words, botanised in such reserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161759	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161802	That is simply a fantastic answer. Let me start with the Conservative 2020 plan; I am simply standing here with the financial table. There's not a penny for health. That is what Mike Legarth was driving around in, the last time we discussed: that one had to recognise that there was no crown for health. That is what we are trying to rectify now with an amendment where funding, says Mr. Mike Legarth, the Danes, is that next year you will have to work without an additional reserve, that is, what is in the ordinary people's budget would be called that there should be no money for unforeseen expenditure. This is an interesting development in today's debate. I know that the Left is doing the same. The Conservatives didn't want to do that until now, but that's what we're getting at now. Many of the other reserves, sir. Mike Legarth mentions, in fact, the use of the government's financial law agreement has already begun, so you get into some difficulties if you want to do what the Conservatives say. But now to clean up the whole forest of questions, sir. Mike Legarth's answer actually triggers, so I just have the one thing that I would ask him to deal with: Mike Legarth ever come under the former government in which the Conservatives were involved, where no funds had been set aside for unforeseen expenditure, where there was no additional reserve? Was there one year at any time during the previous government where this was done?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217161931	The government is botanizing in the same way, and this is the choice we have, and this is where we assign funding crowns to crowns, and there is no running around in that. There was no driving around at first reading either. There, in the debate, we referred to a 2020 plan, and now it is a financial act for 2015, and there is a 2020 plan and the two things are different. I guess I can have that much respect. After all, the 2020 plan provides for 11.3 billion in the Conservatives' proposal. kr. to demographic challenges. So that's what we're gonna do, and you can use it for a lot of different things. So we have indicated, and that is what we are talking about here, namely a professional debate, responsibility, to vouch for what is being said. We could never dream of proposing something that is not funding for, and we have shown that in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162023	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162024	It is clearly a conservative rapporteur who has thought: this time I want to get my answers straight. Well, last time I accused Mr. Knox... Mike Legarth to get a little on ice because there was so much uncertainty about the funding of the great health promise given by the Conservatives. Now we have one answer and the other answer and so on, but I have to say that there is still a great deal of slippery riding over it. I would like to say that during the Christmas season there is such a little Holiday on Ice about it in the replies that come from the Conservative People's Party. The Conservative People's Party scratches up a whole lot of things that you want to save on, and then some things you don't want to save on. But one of the things that remains in the Conservative People's Party's replies here from the platform today is defence. It is planned that 537 million will be saved. kr. In this area. Is that something that the Conservative People's Party supports? Is it conservative politics to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162135	No, the Conservative People's Party is very keen that we have a well-functioning defence, that we give priority to defence, so new savings on defence are not on the Conservative agenda. Rasmus Prehn asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162152	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162153	Well, where's the money coming from, if that's how it's set up for this? Where do you find the money to avoid that saving? That is what we need answers to. I could also ask about the whole area of justice and police, which is also usually conservative policy. Where will the money come from if the savings are not to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162215	I have just explained what we want and where the funding comes from. We think it is very important that we increase our efforts, that we strengthen the police, because they have tasks they cannot solve. We would like to put an end to gang crime and we would like to see increased efforts being made in the field of cross-border crime. We have set aside 500 million. kr. If you're a tech geek, you can see exactly where the money comes from. So for the proposal like everyone else: when we as Conservatives propose something, we have • and I assume that this applies to the majority of the parties in this Chamber too, so of course we do. But we think it is important that we do something more to ensure that we have a well-functioning, effective police force, that we create legal certainty in the streets and straits and a belief in it, that is, that it is first and foremost what the ordinary Dane is experiencing. But if you have a break-in, are there any policemen who can get out? Many tell us that no, you are told when you report it that there are no staff to come out and deal with it. It's downgraded. It is a gross violation of individual legal certainty. We can't have that, we have to do something about that. And that is why we are putting money into a strengthened effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162325	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162326	Well, I really would like to come back to that, my colleague, sir. Jesper Petersen asked, because I didn't think there was a very concrete answer. So let me ask again: did it ever happen under the VK government that there was no contingency reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162346-2	You could ask the then Minister for Finance about that. And excuse me, I think this is a completely irrelevant question. Well, we've done what this government does, botanized in a number of things. But one could turn it around and ask: could it be imagined before the last elections that the present government, having won the power of government, after filling the assembly halls, having sat and received joyfully and having been applauded out of the Chamber on what would now be delivered to the Danes, could then do the diametrically opposite? Then negative growth was delivered in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Has anyone ever seen this happen before and that a block can regain power on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162432	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162433	I can of course hear that the rapporteur would like to try to avoid replying. The answer is no. It did not happen that there were no reserves for unforeseen expenditure, and it did not do so because it is deeply, deeply irresponsible to pursue an economic policy without having reserves, if storms arise, for example, if there are other things that do in a society when you try to control the economy. So I would like to know whether it is generally conservative economic policy that you do not operate with reserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162507	I can say one thing: every penny spent by the state we want to take responsibility for, and we want to point out where the money is to be found. So Mrs. Trine Bramsen can come in. Just tell me if it's for tax relief or reform, anything. The wish list can be long. The Conservative People's Party is involved. We're not political Santas. We are not the ones who are throwing shine around with what can be done and what cannot be done. No, we tell you what we mean and tell you what we think we can do, and we assign crowns to crown funding. The red block could learn a lot from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162537	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162539	Thank you to the rapporteur for explaining a little where to find funding for all these proposals. If you're going to dive into one of them, the 4 billion. The rapporteur could then be a little more precise about what two-digit million ECU is to be saved. It may be in the fields of defence, justice, education or the like. The 4 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. must be found on the state budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162613	It's actually the same as what we've been around a little bit. Let me start with some general considerations as to why we think there should be zero growth. It is because we believe that it is unsustainable in many contexts that we continue to increase the volume of the public sector and increase the tax burden. We're going the other way. We want the public sector to be smaller. We want to reduce public consumption and then we want to let growth come from the private sector, and that is why we are constantly calling for and calling for direct investment in the private sector to be launched so that it can grow so that the public sector becomes smaller as the private sector grows. We believe that zero growth can be achieved, and this does not just apply in 2015. After all, we will do this by 2020 every year, and then it is an accounting exercise because we are at the end of the year. Shall we open the budgets? We had so much respect for the municipalities that we said that we are trying to find the money in a different way in 2015, but in 2016 it is about having zero growth; others call it a cost stop. We think that is excellent. However, it is price and salary projected, so you can have the same number of employees and the same purchase of goods. But we're keeping the public sector quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162722	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162724	I'm gonna try one more time. What I asked was the 4 billion. kr., you want to save on the state budget. This is, in fact, very tangible in contrast to some of the other proposals we have had in the past, where savings will be made in the municipalities without being able to indicate exactly what needs to be done there. You could say that the good thing about this proposal is that it's the state budget. That is something to which the rapporteur can give a direct answer. How will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party save 4 billion? kr. on the state budget? This is not something any municipalities or regions should do. This is something to which the rapporteur can actually give direct instructions here. I ask once again: how will you find the 4 billion? kr. on the state budget in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162805	Now I assume that when we are sitting in this Chamber, we have also just been knocked out the listening patches; then we are listening to what the rapporteur says when he stands on the platform. I explained what reserves we had taken in. I explained that we had 700 million. kr. in surplus, which we used, and I explained that we would then have to find 550 million. kr. on the budget of the State. I would just like to mention one thing, although I may think, when it is a debate on finance law, that it is the big numbers and the big frameworks that are at stake. But let's just dive into it a little; I think that's quite fair. The state's consumption of consultants is an example. Perhaps that could be spared.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162840	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162841	Thank you. It is very clear that Mr. Mike Legarth and the Conservative People's Party have thrown both belts and belts in relation to the Danish economy and our public budget. Not for 25 years has a government been seen to run without reserves. - Sir... Mike Legarth really guarantee that there will be nothing unexpected in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162905	If this is to be brought to the end of the day, then no one can guarantee that the reserves that have been set aside are sufficient. If there is any major natural disaster, then it is not certain that the reserves that have been set aside will be sufficient, and we will have to get on with the political work of finding that money anyway. And there I can just say that you can just call the Conservative People's Party and then we deliver, because I can at least guarantee that if someone asks us to help find the money that is missing for one reason or another, we will be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162931	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162932	Up through the 00s one could at least count on Conservatives in government providing a security around the Danish economy, a certainty about that if something unexpected came out, one would have suffered on the coffin floor to give off. Is it to be understood that this responsibility will no longer be experienced by the Conservative People's Party if and if one should go back to government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217162954	I'd like to say it again. I don't think I can be asked too much, and I'll answer every single time, even if it's the same thing I'm asked about. Well, we're assigning crowns to crown funding, and we've done that in this context. If that is not enough, we can be called and we will be involved. If, contrary to our expectations, there will be a greater feature of some of the reserves than we had anticipated, we should be happy to help find more. We would also like, in any context, to help find growth initiatives in the private sector; we would like to help, for many different reasons, find the money to abolish the top tax and the bottom tax so that it will be better and easier for companies to compete. So this isn't a question of the money not there. We shall help them to be present, and we can be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217163040	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Johan Lund Olsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217163105	Thank you, sir. President. During the opening of the Danish Parliament earlier this autumn I informed the Danish Parliament and the government about the major economic problems and challenges facing Greenland. These predictions are still holding back, and the prospects are not good either, even if we now have a new government coalition of Siumut, the Democrats and Atassut. In addition to the prospect of a huge deficit in the Greenlandic treasury at the end of this year, there is, as you know, also the prospect that the economy in Greenland will deteriorate considerably as early as next year. This will happen if the service contract with the Americans on the American military presence at Thule and in Greenland is not changed, so the contract again comes to the greatest benefit to Greenland's society in terms of employment and socio-economic terms. But we will come back to that in this Chamber in the new year. Today and tomorrow, we will be debating and voting on the total financial law of the Kingdom Community, i.e.: Greenland's relevant appropriations for 2015 and for the coming years too, and I will concentrate on that in this rapporteur's speech. I have highlighted to the Minister for Finance my dissatisfaction and my party with the course of this year's financial law negotiations. We believe that the justification that the government, including the Minister for Finance, could not meet with us during the budget negotiations because of the written election for the Greenland Landsting, Inatsisartut, is neither satisfactory nor right. We were thus effectively cut off from being part of the financial law negotiations as opposed to the other parties in the Folketing. We must start from the fact that Greenlandic and Faroese members of the Folketing are equal to the Danish members and our parties are equal to the Danish parties. I have been elected to the Danish Parliament to carry out my duties here, among others. for the benefit of Greenlandic citizens in Denmark and Greenland. It also means that my party and I are constantly working to ensure improvements and, therefore, funds for areas that need a boost. These are, in principle, matters of relevance to Greenland. This is the case for all other parties elected to the Danish Parliament. I find it difficult to see why we from the North Atlantic should not also be given that opportunity. Of course, our mandate is not necessarily certain, because we are part of an electoral union, and we will therefore expect, like other parties, that we will be called to debate the funds put forward for debate in the future, whatever government may be in power. I hope there will no longer be any doubt about that. From IA's we have been working with Greenlanders in Denmark for a number of years and particularly vulnerable Greenlanders living in Denmark. This led, among other things, to a strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, and to the fact that last year we got the social projects under the Greenlandic houses fixed on the Finance Act. We're really happy about that. During our work on the area, we have repeatedly encountered a general problem: the need for earmarked funds for preventive measures to ensure safe integration for newly-assigned Greenlanders. Prevention is and remains a good business and a long-term investment. Today too much money is being spent on tackling the problems of homelessness, abuse, etc. has arisen, and it makes no sense in purely socio-economic terms. The aim must be for that group of people not to end up in such situations at all. Targeted preventive measures for socially vulnerable Greenlanders are and remain a necessity. I am therefore very pleased that the Danish Government agrees with us on this recital and that funds earmarked under the Finance Act for the integration effort will now be set aside, namely 4 million. kr. in 2015 and 4 million; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). That's a total of 8 million. kr. over the next two years for preventive measures for newly-assigned Greenlanders in Denmark. It's money that falls in a dry place. From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we have taken up the challenge of the Greenlandic justice system before. We have fought for Greenland to become a safe and secure community of law, and the fight is not over. Across our countries, we in both the Folketing and Inatsisartut and in close cooperation with the relevant ministries will continue the work. There's enough to do. The aim must be for us to ensure together a judicial system and a criminal justice system in Greenland which correspond to Danish standards, just as we have agreed in the report to the Self-Government Act. We will be signing from the IA that the new prison is finally being built in Nuuk, and thank you for the earmarked funds set aside in the Finance Act to combat piles at the Greenland cuisine. It is a step in the right direction. In relation to Greenlandic aid guardians in Denmark, it has not been right that they have been waiting for so many years for an announcement to come, and thus have been looking at the fact that for too many years there has been unequal pay and working conditions within the Kingdom Community. There are now hopes of orderly conditions at last. The Government has promised that a new decree will be issued on Greenlandic aid and caregivers, so that a long-standing discrimination between Danish and Greenlandic aid and caregivers can be abolished. I am, of course, pleased about that. Activities in the Arctic are growing. In line with this, the Danish defence strengthens the focus and presence in the Arctic and in Greenland. It should be safe to travel in Greenland. At last year's autumn session, a large Greenlandic majority in Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, supported the establishment of a civilian voluntary preparedness in Greenland. Let there be action behind the majority's adoption in Greenland. We are all talking about the Arctic, but let us put real action behind the fine declarations of intent. Another case affecting the presence of the defence in Greenland concerns environmental clean-up at old military facilities. The task must be carried out, it must be cleaned up and it costs money. Creating a civil preparedness in Greenland as well as ensuring environmental clean-up at military facilities in Greenland are two cases that we from Inuit Ataqatigiits will continue to focus on at next year's finance negotiations. In the opening debate, I said to the Prime Minister that we are very pleased that the Growth Fund will now also include Greenland's industry and the possibility of business promotion in Greenland. I'm really glad. Growth is needed, for new investments and for business development in Greenland. The cooperation on this is a win-win situation for the benefit of Denmark and for the benefit of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Further cooperation across the North Atlantic on close business cooperation and investment actions can only benefit all of us. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we will continue this work in 2015. In many ways, close cooperation in the Kingdom community is a necessity also for the Danish Finance Act. I sat in the plane yesterday on my way here from Nuuk and thought, it's 5 minutes to 12. When does the Danish Government wake up from their thornsleep? Three minutes in 12, I received a letter from the government saying that the government had complied with my wishes and those of IA, and that is why I intend to vote in favour tomorrow. I think I can now go on Christmas vacation with serenity and a good conscience to concentrate on lamb roll sausage made of Greenlandic lamb and liver pâté made of Greenlandic lamb liver. Takuss' 2015-imi - as we say in Greenland. I'll see you in 2015 and have a merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-DK_20141217163929	Thank you. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217163932	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and congratulations on the success of an agreement with the Minister for Finance. We are all very happy about that, at least this side of the House. I should just like to ask whether there is any possibility that part of the appropriation that has been agreed could be used for the pension scheme for newly-assigned Greenlanders, for which the rapporteur himself has previously spoken, and which Enhedslisten also seems to be a very good idea. This could probably prevent many problems associated with the integration of Greenlanders here in Denmark. The second question concerns the fact that, over the last few days in the media, there were some voices that it was a violently aggressive act that the Kingdom community has submitted a so-called claim on Greenland's continental shelf right over to Russia's 200-mile limit. I would like to know how the rapporteur sees this. Does the rapporteur consider this to be an aggressive act on the part of the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164038	Thank you, Finn Sørensen. In relation to a boarding house for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, I have to say that this is a proposal that the Council of Social Affairs Ministers has referred to as one of the options. But it's the same thing with this 8 million. The agreement is that it is the Ministry of Social Affairs which, together with the Greenlandic houses around it, will manage these 8 million. kr. over 2 years. So whether there is a guest house or how to arrange is entirely up to the employees of the Greenlandic houses in close cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. This is something I am very pleased about, because the Greenlandic house staff around this country are those who have first-hand knowledge of where the problems lie and how big the problems are. So I'm really glad about that. In relation to the continental shelf project and the demand made to the United Nations here recently, I must say that we in my party are pleased that this demand has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164201	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164202	Thank you. Thank you for the information on how to manage these appropriations. Like the rapporteur, I think it is a very good idea for this to happen in close cooperation between the Greenlandic houses and the Ministry of Social Affairs. After all, it is the houses that know where the shoe prints on these issues, and then I think we can all trust that a good solution will be found to spend that money. As far as the latter is concerned, one can only stress that when Denmark submits such a claim, it is in fact the real world on behalf of Greenland. So I also believe that the Folketing, like the rapporteur, can be extremely satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164245	Yes, I am, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164255	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Sjúrður Skaale from JF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164258	Thank you. I will move a little along the same street as the previous speaker. Because in the last weeks and days of one of the more well-informed journalists in this House has been written that, although the financial law agreement has long been concluded, until very recently there has been no real majority in favour of it. The journalist also wrote that I was the one who secured the vote a few days ago by the government. Ninety. The articles are based on the mathematical fact that when the government makes a financial bill to the left, the Danish parties only count 89 seats. So at least one North Atlantic mandate is needed to raise the number of votes to 90. This shows how important pieces of North Atlantic mandates are in the game. If we voted no tomorrow, there would be parliamentary elections in January. It also means that if we were so rude and cynical, we could have made very great demands. And the special thing is that the bill for these claims had to be paid by Danish taxpayers and not our own voters. We could therefore, if we were not the civilised, formed and decent people as we are, sit in the Folketing and print very large bills for the Danes. Not having to demand in with one hand when you give with the other, but being able to give with both hands is surely the dream of every politician, and we actually have the opportunity to live if we want to. We would be very unpopular in Denmark if we did so, but hardly among everyone in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland. Imagine, then, that the last election had been held a few days later than it was, and blue block it was the trend that had overtaken the red block on election day. Imagine that the red block had been given 86 mandates and blue block 89 mandates during the election. And imagine that in 2011 it had been as some polls suggest it might be next time that four red North Atlantics came. Then, of course, the red bloc would gain power, even if it had lost the elections, and then four seats, four one-man parties elected on quite different promises from all others in this Chamber, would each have the opportunity to make very great demands on the Finance Act. In that case, Denmark's voters would have to live, firstly, with a government other than the one they had chosen, and secondly, they would have to pay a high economic price for this government to remain in power. If we then fabulously continue to say that the red block had thought that it was too much of the good and had refused to meet the demands, then only one of the four North Atlantics could have gone to blue block and said: If you meet my demands, you will have the 90th mandate from me, and then you will have the power in Denmark. Of course, the blues would have been doubtful, but they would have said yes, because it is cheaper to dance with one demanding North Atlanticer than with four. As I have said, these arguments about the hypothetical possibilities are based on the articles of the journalist mentioned, and I mention them because the basic premise of the articles is interesting and so far very little discussed. We North Atlantics could not have just blackmailed the government in this round; we could have been the poison for the political system in Denmark at all. That is also what has led to a debate in England on whether to deprive MEPs from Scotland of the opportunity to vote in purely English cases. Having said all that, however, I would add that it is not really so. I have never, never, in the run-up to this Finance Act threatened to vote against the Financial Bill. I never did. I have had some good negotiations, or we can say talks, with the Minister of Finance and his people, and we have found a common understanding of things, and that must be the case. Although I could, I think it would be an abuse of my mandate to print large bills to people for whom I should not be answerable on election day. On the other hand, it is so that all people hate the feeling of being taken for granted. And when you're a politician, you can't live with that feeling at all. No government can therefore demand any mandate from the North Atlantic that he should place his vote in one or the other of the scales without any counterclaims. We are sitting here because the Constitution says we must; we are fighting to win the seats, and then we must also be expected to play the game. It is wrong and it would be wrong to abuse your mandate, but it would be a failure not to use it. We should just do it in our own responsible way, taking into account that in our countries there is another financial law and that Danish authorities do not implement any law in the Faroe Islands bypassing the Faroese Parliament. We are therefore very special elements in this House, and therefore there must also be a special understanding between the government on the one hand and us on the other. I would say this, at least for my own part, that there have been the last few years and also in the last few weeks. Since there is much to suggest that this is the last major debate in this parliamentary term, I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, as I said, there has been a good understanding over all the years, and this has made things work. My demands have not been economic, they have been of a political nature, and most of them have been met. The relationship has been good both with the government, but certainly also with the opposition parties. We still have to resolve some of the political tasks I have put on the agenda, but hopefully we will do so before the button is pressed sometime next year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217164950	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217165002	Thank you very much for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs and to the Danish Parliament for an interesting debate, at least so far, on the budget law for 2015. Before commenting on the speeches that have come from the rapporteurs, I would like to begin by summing up the current economic situation in Denmark and outlining the responsible and balanced path which is the foundation of the government's economic policy and which, at the same time, creates space and security to develop the common welfare in Denmark. I will then outline the main elements of the Finance Act, which shows how the government's welfare policy is actually different from a zero growth policy. Basically, it is worth noting that the Danish economy is progressing, although GDP growth over 2014 has been weaker than expected. This is an increase which is clearly the most important place at all, namely in the labour market, where employment in the private sector has increased by almost 30,000 people since mid-2013. At the same time, unemployment has fallen. Gross unemployment is expected to be 135,000 people this year, and the growth of Danish export markets has slowed down during 2014 and weaker growth in the euro area in particular has contributed to a lower growth in exports. Unfortunately, it is also the case that increasing geopolitical uncertainty, among other things. in view of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, has weakened expectations of economic growth, especially in the euro area. The weaker growth abroad has naturally contributed to the continued restraint of Danish companies and consumers, and domestic demand has also been lower than expected in 2014. However, it is also part of the picture of international economic trends that countries such as the United States and the UK are well advanced in their cyclical recovery, with a robust increase in domestic demand and an increase in employment. It is the government's assessment that the recovery in the Danish economy will increase in strength and that employment will increase further. GDP growth is expected to increase by 1.4% with recent estimates. in 2015 and 2%. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Employment is also expected to increase in the coming years. Overall, employment is estimated to increase by approx. 60,000 people for 2013-2016, and in the years to come it will also be first and foremost in the private sector that one sees a move in the growth of employment. Of course, there is uncertainty about the recovery of the economy. The Danish economy is fundamentally improving, and Denmark's competitiveness has increased significantly since 2011. But in other areas too, the Danish economy is much stronger than only a few years ago. As mentioned, employment has increased since 2013, housing prices have increased since 2013, consumer confidence has been positive since 2013 and interest rates have decreased further since 2013. Finally, over the last few months, we have seen that oil prices have fallen and that the dollar exchange rate has risen, and if this trend is longer, it will support the activity of the Danish economy. Overall, Danish economy has good conditions for growth in the coming years. The Government's economic policy has aimed to support growth and employment as far as possible and to do so within the framework of a responsible fiscal policy, and this also applies to the Finance Act for 2015. The development of 2014 has unfortunately confirmed that it is still necessary to keep a hand under the economy. There are clear signs of progress in the economy, but the strength of economic recovery has so far been more modest than expected. The Ministry of Finance assessed the structural deficit in the course of the financial draft for 2015 in August at 0.5%. of GDP in 2015 and the actual deficit to 3.0 per cent. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Thus, fiscal policy for 2015 deliberately came close to deficit limits. Following the submission of the Government's draft Finance Bill, a number of indicators and assessments were published pointing towards lower growth, especially in the euro area. It is clear that a weakening of the economic outlook in the euro area also affects growth in Denmark. Weaker growth also poses a risk that the actual government deficit in 2015 will be higher than assessed in August and thus exceed the 3-percent limit. That was why, in October, the government concluded an agreement with Enhedslisten and SF on a pension package, and I would like to thank the two parties for that. The pension package introduces a financial incentive for the earlier payment of savings in the wage-earners' Animal Time Fund and extends the possibility of converting the capital pension into an old-age pension until the end of 2015. The pension package is expected to improve the general government balance by 3⁄4 per cent. of GDP in 2015, corresponding to 15 billion. The pension package thus provides a significant safety distance to the deficit threshold for the actual deficit, which reduces the risk that Denmark will re-recommend a recommendation from the EU. The pension package does not contain any new expenditure. It is merely that tax payments are brought forward to 2015 and are used to reduce the deficit and thus the public debt. Furthermore, the pension package has the advantage that the improvement of the general government balance in 2015 can be achieved without weakening demand and without weakening growth and employment. With the Finance Act, we are taking a large number of new initiatives together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, to which I shall return later, but it is fundamental to bear in mind that the Finance Act remains within the financial framework of the draft Finance Act. As a result, the agreement does not contribute to reducing the public deficit in 2015. The new estimates for GDP growth in 2014 and 2015 in the Economic Statement, published in December 2014, increase the government deficit in isolation, and so does a lower oil price, as has been debated in recent days. At the same time, however, it should be borne in mind that the positive development of employment reduces the negative impact on the general government deficit of lower GDP growth. Finally, it should also be borne in mind that interest rates have been declining in the wake of lower international growth, and a falling interest rate increases the income from the pension return tax, which reduces the government deficit. Overall, it is the Ministry of Finance's assessment that a government deficit of 21⁄2 percent of GDP is projected in 2015 against the 3%. of GDP, which was assessed in August. And, as you know, with a general government deficit of 21⁄2 percent of GDP in 2015, there is a certain safety margin for the deficit threshold of 3.0 per cent. Finally, it should be pointed out that the government's economic policy is not only about supporting growth and employment; it is just as much about helping to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. And Danish companies and Danish jobs are conditions that are persistently challenged by competition from other countries, although Denmark's competitiveness has been significantly strengthened since 2011. However, there is still a need to improve the competitiveness of Danish companies, which is why the government is working to ensure that companies have good conditions for creating jobs in Denmark. Among other things, the government has. done with the "Growth Plan" in 2013 and with the "Growth Package 2014" from this summer. The most recent agreements on growth package 2014• contain over 100 initiatives, which together with a number of other government achievements in 2014 increase the prosperity of the Danish economy by 6 billion. kr. in 2020. At the same time, "Growth Package 2014" means that companies can reduce their costs by just over 5 billion. kr. annual as a result of fewer administrative burdens, lower taxes, efficiency, etc. At the same time, growth package 2014 will support an increase in private business investment for total approx. 10 billion kr. Towards 2020. The enhanced production will help secure well-paid jobs across the country, including in our manufacturing companies. What I have been talking about so far, i.e. the economic situation, growth prospects, Danish jobs, etc., are all essential conditions for us to be able to develop and safeguard our welfare societies for future generations. The core of what the government is doing and what the government wants to do is to protect and safeguard our common welfare society in the future. That's why the government spends an average of 3 billion dollars. kr. every year for new welfare. This means that by 2020 there will be a total of 20 billion. kr. more to ensure better welfare if you keep that course. With the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, we clearly show how the government's welfare policy in practice differs from zero growth policy. Within the framework of a responsible economic policy, we can afford significant investments in our welfare societies in the coming years. The government has signed a Finance Act with SF and Enhedslisten with initiatives that significantly strengthen welfare over the next 4 years. These are initiatives that address the weakest in our society and at the same time support a proper and secure labour market, and all of this has been done within the framework of a balanced and sustainable economic policy. The agreement shall ensure, inter alia, that: A significant priority is given to health; a total of 6.5 billion is added. kr. over the next 4 years for improvements in the Danish health care system. This increases, among other things. efforts to ensure better cancer survival, and at the same time we take responsibility for the weakest in society by strengthening our efforts towards chronic diseases. At the same time, with the agreement, we have allocated new funds for a home help clip card. It is a rock card that should allow the weakest elderly to decide for themselves what they want more help with, if it is an extra time cleaning, a tour of the cinema, a museum visit or something quite fourth. High-quality daily offers are of great importance for how children are doing later in life. That is why we are strengthening day-to-day offers by a total of 1 billion. kr. In the coming years, more educational staff can be employed in the country's kindergartens, crèches and day care facilities. With the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, the government, SF and Enhedslisten have also emphasised that we would like to support the Danish labour market model, and therefore we have chosen to increase the deduction for trade union quotas. At the same time, we are continuing our efforts to date to combat social dumping by a further 50 million. kr. in 2015. This means that in the period 2012-2015 we have allocated more than 650 million. kr. to the fight against social dumping. At the same time, the parties to the agreement have been concerned with maintaining a secure labour market. That is why, with the Finance Act, we are introducing a cash benefit that will hold hands with the unemployed who will fall out of the benefit system. At the same time, we ensure better conditions for cash benefits recipients, among others. by abolishing the mutual dependants of co-living cash benefits recipients. The government, SF and Enhedslisten also agree that it should be possible to develop versatile residential areas. That is why we have decided to amend the law on plans so that municipalities will have better opportunities to develop mixed residential areas where there is room for everyone, including citizens with small incomes. We must also take responsibility for a sustainable future for future generations. Therefore, the government has also set aside 200 million at this point together with SF and Enhedslisten. kr. annual green transition and enhanced climate action in the coming years. Finally, with the Finance Act, we have set aside a pool of 0.25 billion. kr. to help municipalities house the many asylum seekers who have come to Denmark in recent months. In addition to the many initiatives in the Central Finance Act, a total of three sub-agreements have been concluded, including: the implementation of the Research Reserve in 2015, a new Film Agreement for the period 2015-2018 and the payment of the Rate Pool for 2014. These are partial agreements concluded by a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, and the government would like to sign for more parties to take responsibility for the Finance Act for 2015. The Finance Act is, overall, fully funded. It includes new initiatives for a total of 3.4 billion. kr. in 2015, and in addition, fully funded sub-contracts have been implemented for 2,3 billion. kr. in 2015. Total financing of approx. 5.6 billion. kr. ensure that the 2015 Finance Law Agreements can be implemented within the framework of the Budget Act and the expenditure ceilings. With the overall agreement complex, the government has continued to pursue a responsible and balanced economic policy, which at the same time creates space to develop the common welfare in Denmark. I shall now take some time to comment on the various contributions made by the rapporteurs in today's debate. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the SF and the Enhedslisten. As usual, there is no reason at all for these debates to hide the fact that on a number of points we disagree on essential elements of economic policy. That has also emerged from the debate here today, and that will certainly be the case in the future, and this is an entirely honest matter. At the same time, with today's debate and the financial agreement that has been the subject of the debate, it is clear that we are united on a wide range of specific issues and that, from that point of view, we are able to achieve a wide range of concrete results. It is results that strengthen the community, strengthen the Danish labour market model, strengthen the fight against social dumping, strengthen the conditions of the Danes who have the most difficulty, strengthen the green transition and the core welfare, which play a very important role in the lives of so many ordinary Danish employees. This has taken place in the framework of bottom solidity, entirely financially responsible, where all the new stricter requirements for economic policy introduced in recent years are respected; where the growth packages widely agreed in the Folketing are implemented; and where overall economic policy continues to contribute positively to private growth and employment. All of this is not so bad, and I would like to thank you for that. Secondly, I would like to say a few words to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Peter Christensen. From this point of view, in my view, the contribution was adversely influenced by the desire and expectation of an early election campaign. This wish is understandable and the rapporteur is right to have it, but it is very little encouraging when it stands in the way of a substantive debate on economic policy and the economic situation in Denmark. Instead of a sober discussion of economic realities, instead of a concrete offer of the Left's own proposals and priorities, we were given a long, negative, unconcerned and, unfortunately, unspeakably elected. It was a speech that seemed to have been written on the basis of the only source of facts about economic and social conditions currently used in the Left, namely the attack manual that has been published to all members and candidates of the Party. But no elections have been held, and we are not in an election campaign. On the other hand, we are all obliged to do our job here in the Folketing and, in this context, to discuss as objectively as possible how best to carry out the heavy financial clean-up tasks that have affected the government work of recent years, on the one hand, after a deep crisis and, on the other hand, after a long period in which the majority of the VKO had no control over economic policy, and so I would like to help the rapporteur of the Left with a number of information which has not found its way into the attack manual, but which is still not possible. I can perhaps start with a few facts about the objectives that the rapporteur of the Left talks about and advocates: economic progress, financial accountability, public finances, more private jobs, stronger competitiveness and a better business environment. We are really dealing here with a paradox in today's debate on finance law. For the truth is that the government has delivered far better results on those points in the last three years than the government, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Left were in charge, and that is why the situation is also that we have actually got more private jobs and fewer unemployed and that we have the prospect of renewed prosperity. This is a trend that is most recently confirmed in today's current edition of Berlingske, where a panel of 204 Danish top executives expresses a clear optimism, compared to what awaits the private sector and companies in the coming months. According to senior managers from the private sector, the arrow points towards more investment, greater turnover and new jobs. In this situation, I cannot help but regret the approach taken not only by the rapporteur of the Left, but by the whole bourgeois opposition in terms of real economic development in Denmark. Because if you listen to the speeches made by the rapporteurs over a long day's debate, yes, you sometimes get the impression that the rapporteurs are almost upset about the economic progress that actually appears on a large number of points, as if the political urge to scold the government and its ministers far overshadows interest in what is happening outside Christiansborg. I find that sad, and therefore I think there is reason to dwell on the debate on deficits and accountability in economic policy that I have had the pleasure of having with a broad committee of representatives from the Left over recent months. After all, the claim by the Left has been that the government was not in control of debt and deficit, the claim has been that falling oil prices and lower growth prospects due to developments in the countries around Denmark should push the deficit above the limits to which we have committed ourselves and that it should trigger a new recommendation from the European Commission. In this respect, it seems to have completely forgotten the close past where the only government that has actually made a recommendation to Denmark was Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's VK government. After all, it was a recommendation that triggered the demands for clean-up that the present government has had to deal with in recent years, so that the recommendation has now been repealed. Now we've got the updated numbers. We know that, in the light of recent developments and the latest data, the European Commission estimates that the Danish deficit will be 2.3 per cent and that it will remain firmly on the right side of the 3-percent limit; we also know, as I said, that the estimate in the Economic Statement is a little more cautious and that we are landing at 2.5%. It will be baroque if you look at what the Left itself has proposed. This has been done by the Ministry of Finance in response to the Finance Committee's question 152 and this shows that if the draft Finance Act by the Left were actually implemented without the pension package, which the Left has so severely criticised, it would result in a public deficit of between 3.1 per cent on the basis of the current economic outlook. and 3.25%. of GDP. It is, of course, a fact that is quite well linked to the fact that the Left's draft budget was based on driving without any margin of safety, without reserves for unforeseen costs in 2015. So I think there is reason to take it again and perhaps slowly: if you implement the financial year 2015, that is, the financial year we are debating here today, then it would again, as under the VKO government, mean exceeding the deficit limits to which Denmark has committed itself, if you do not implement the pension package that the government has responsibly and in good time proposed under massive criticism from the entire bourgeois opposition with the Left at the forefront. This leads me to a few comments on the pension package itself, which, of course, ensures that we can continue to pursue an economic policy through the Finance Act that contributes positively to private growth and employment. As you know, the criticism has been quite massive, and this has not least been the case on the part of the rapporteur of the Left, and it may be useful in this context for the Folketing to be reminded of some of the assessments made by the most expert economists in connection with the proposal. For example, the President of the Economic Council says Hans Jørgen Whitta-Jacobsen, and I quote that if you had not done so, you would have to pursue a tighter fiscal policy in a crisis in which we need to strengthen employment. The same wise man explains this in a different context, and again I quote, that if politicians cannot live with a government deficit of 3.6%. and, therefore, we must, in a traditional way, tighten down to 3%, so we need a severe fiscal tightening which will have significant negative consequences for the economy in the current economic situation. And we can clearly see the need to avoid such a great fiscal tightening. Similarly, Professor Nina Smith says, and again I quote, that it may be appropriate to extend the deadline to 2015 in order to recapitalise capital pensions and also to include deposits in the Employees' Animal Time Fund, so that we do not impose an economic tightening on account of the EU's budgetary restrictions, which run counter to optimum cyclical regulation. So, frankly, the pension package is useful if you want to avoid pursuing a policy that costs growth and costs jobs in the Danish economy as well. Secondly, I would like to make a few comments on the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. Here today's contribution was, unfortunately, another missed opportunity to put into practice the economic policy of the Danish People's Party, in order to establish something that merely resembles the link between expenditure and income in the politics of the Danish People's Party in a wide range of contexts. And I followed with particular attention Mr. René Christensen's attempt to avoid the many issues that simply related to the many popular views of the Danish People's Party in the media on the one hand, and the lack of willingness to finance and make proposals here in the Parliamentary Chamber when the Finance Act is to be dealt with. The impression was left of a rapporteur who, on his way down the slope, overturned virtually all the gates that the authors put up on the road. Quite consistently, the rapporteur suffered from a heavy loss of memory when it came to the concrete unfinanced spending proposals of prominent members of the Danish People's Party, who are not found or financed in the Danish People's Party's Finance Bill. Finally, I would like to end with a few words about the speeches from the two bourgeois parties on the far right, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. Here, as usual, I am delighted at the great scope of our democracy on this occasion. For here are two parties with an economic policy that lies miles away from mainstream, miles away from my and the government's attitudes and assessments of both justice and fairness, but also of the possibilities of pursuing an economic policy that works. This, of course, puts a color to the debate, it creates contradictions that one can relate to, because there has to be something to choose from for the Danes who will have to decide on the direction for Denmark next year at some point in the next four years, and for that I would really like to thank them. However, I should like to add that my pleasure in following these speeches in the debate must of course be matched by a very similar concern on the part of the Left and on the part of Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who, following today's debate, must find that there is no kind of coherence, no kind of responsible common denominator between the economic policy presented by the four bourgeois parties. And even when it comes to one of the key financing elements of the Left's financial bill, namely the requirement to break the municipal and regional agreements, to cancel the block grant act, to reopen the already adopted municipal and regional budgets and to send what can best be described as a reverse Christmas present, i.e. a giro card of 1.5 billion. kr. To the citizens who benefit from local and regional welfare, yes, it is quite frankly rejected by the Conservative People's Party, in line with a number of left-wing mayors, while the Conservative People's Party, on the other hand, builds the entire party's financial bill on saving 4 billion. kr. In the case of the state budgets, without in any way realising where the money for it is to be found by means of specific amendments to the Finance Act. Anyone, and I am sure the rapporteur from the Left, can see that this is not a responsible economic policy. And, overall, this creates a fundamental uncertainty about the alternative to the current government. This creates a stronger need for the Left to present a concrete plan for the party's own economic policy, which is why I will end with a quiet Christmas and New Year's hope that we will have such a plan in the coming years, and I would also like to end with a thank you for today's debate so far and for the broad consensus which, despite our many discussions, nevertheless accounts for the fact that we can adopt the Community's financial law for 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171731	Peter Christensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171733	I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether the Minister for Finance has regretted the reply that was sent to the Committee on Finance and in which the Minister for Finance explained the reforms that have taken place by the Danish economy since 2009. For in that reply, the Minister for Finance says that reforms have been made between 2009 and 2011, which have strengthened the Danish economy by 46.8 billion. kr., and that reforms have been made while the Minister for Finance has had financial responsibility, for 5.2 billion. kr., i.e. that 90%. of the recovery of the Danish economy that has taken place, not by the Minister for Finance, but by the former government of the VK. Has the Minister of Finance regretted sending that reply to the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171847	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171848	I certainly haven't regretted any answer at all. And there is quite a lot to make up for when it comes to the Danish economy. In other words, what we took over was a situation where public budgets were not under control, where, on the basis of massive overheating, the economy had suffered a much greater job loss and growth loss than in many other Western economies, where our productivity lagged sharply behind developments in other countries and where there was certainly something to do in relation to the efficiency of our public sector and the conditions we provide to our businesses. All these things are so straightened up on the page, not so that you are in the goal, but so that the direction has become much more right. And that is something that is being welcomed in our business community. If you ask independent economists, whom you cannot possibly suspect to be party-political, about which government they consider to be the most financially responsible, then the present government comes out as a clear winner in relation to the government from which we took over, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government, in which the questioner himself also had the pleasure of being a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171944	Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217171945	However, it is interesting that the Minister for Finance continues to make a false storytelling when the Minister for Finance has sent a reply to the Committee on Finance, where the Minister for Finance says quite clearly: yes, 90%. The recovery of the Danish economy took place under the government of the VK. The Minister for Finance could have been even more honest and added: we went to the polls to be against the recovery, but ran from the promise when we had won the election. Perhaps that would have been too honest, so the Minister for Finance failed to do so, but he still had to say, because the law of ministerial responsibility applies, that the fact is that 90%. of the recovery of the Danish economy is not due to me, but to the VK government. Those are the facts. And yet we're gonna hear that fake storytelling: We've done everything we've done right; well, that's only equal to 10%. of the recovery; we take responsibility for it all; what we went to the polls on, dear Danes, we hope you forget; now we start a new round of new promises; we wash the slate clean; believe in us, it will be good; well enough, there is no money for public growth in 2016, because we cannot fulfill the many promises. Is it not difficult to be Minister of Finance, where one hat should answer honestly when it is written and where it is with another hat when one has to stand and have a political debate? I mean, I'd be really confused if I had to change my hat so fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172112	Well, we'll have to try to avoid that. That's the whole change of hat thing. I'll be happy to keep mine for a while longer. And in general, it's just that the thing about calling things fake, and I don't know what, doesn't help much. So, how could it possibly be that, by spending a great many hours a day on it, I could tell the leading economists in Denmark that the government that is now in office is doing better than the government from which we took power? They can do the numbers. You have also read the answers to the Financial Committee. They have basically got to grips with things, and what they may be aware of is that, regardless of what the previous government did when it came to recovery, there were also 100 per cent. of the problems that were created. That was quite a lot, and we have had to deal with them. We can then discuss that in the future how we do best, but if what could come out of our little exchange of words was a consensus that things are actually now going better than before the change of government, then we have come a bit. That was not the impression of the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172213	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172213-2	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Finance Minister for his speech and also for what was said. What I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance is the prelude to the Finance Act, because there were many positive things here that the Danish People's Party had also hoped we could be part of, but we did not. When you stand here with it, you can see that it says "Agreement on Finance Act 2015·." Does the Minister of Finance not agree that it must have been really difficult to get this thing right? It has been a financial law that has had to be given a tough priority, and the challenge that has been faced, in relation to the good intentions that a financial law would be drawn up, in which we were just looking at welfare, has not really succeeded, because a policy in the area of immigration and asylum has been pursued which has made it take the proceeds that were available. That is why today we have a Finance Act for 2015, which does not provide much welfare. The starting point was 1.5 billion. Unfortunately, we are now faced with a financial law which has had to give priority to the area of asylum and immigration. Is that not the result we really have here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172327	You can answer that with a short no. So, I know that the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party would like that impression to be spread, but that is wrong. The Finance Act passed strengthens our well-being in Denmark. It also strengthens our green transition; it also strengthens help for those who have the weakest; it strengthens our Danish labour market model. It strengthens throughout all the areas I went through in my speech, and it cannot have gone completely over the rapporteur's head. In addition, you pay the bill that Denmark, in line with a number of other countries, receives more people from Syria because there is war in Syria. And a large part of the bill is paid with money that would otherwise have been spent on foreign aid. That should be known to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172406	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172408	What I actually signed up for in the Minister's review was all the positive things that were also said. That's what you want to sell this on. But we can look at it: To strengthen the fight against overcrowding in hospitals, 50 million have been set aside. kr. off. When we look at it with the strengthening of the municipal prevention effort, i.e. that people do not have to be reinstated time and time again, we can see that you have set 0 kr. of 2015, and that you have set 0 DKK. of in 2016. You don't lose money until 2017. When we look at the insurance of the medical allowance for the chronically ill, it is a very good headline, but the problem is that you have set 0 kr. of in 2015. You don't lose money until 2016. When we look at a strengthened effort towards vulnerable families, i.e. in this agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, we can see that you have set 0 DKK. of in 2015. You don't lose money until 2016. Then the Minister must say "and I recognise that the government had good intentions that it did not succeed in getting the good intentions done in 2015 because a failed policy in the area of asylum has been pursued, and that is why it has sucked the money for itself. Unfortunately, there was no amount left available to implement the initiatives you wanted to take in relation to the welfare of 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172525	That is simply wrong. Now there is a limit in speaking time here in the Danish Parliament, but if you are interested in reading from the Danish People's Party all the excellent things that happen when it comes to welfare and community, helping our weakest fellow citizens, our Danish labour market, such a point by point, then you can get on outside the Parliamentary Chamber then the end of the debate tonight and get on with it. It will be a relatively long reading. Then there is the fact that positive things are also happening in the coming years: many of the funds are permanent, many of them are phased in so that they actually grow over the next few years, well to note that they are fully funded from the outset, because there is no use of a penny which has not been financed. That is only one more positive thing. I would be delighted if I were, by the way, one who was seriously in favour of this type of purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172608	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172610	After all, the Minister of Finance would like to paint the picture that the Danish economy was a craftsman's offer, which he took over; that everything has now been sorted out; that things are going much better now; and that there was no control over the budgets then, but that there is now. I therefore agree that the economic policy of the government of the VK could have been better, but rather to acknowledge that this government's policy does the job. Because when you look at, for example, what the public deficit was in 2011, when the Minister for Finance took over, you see that it was 37 billion. kr. And then comes the Finance Minister with a Finance Act for 2015, where according to him everything goes much better, and he presents it in August, and then there is a deficit of 60 billion. kr. That saves the finance minister by taxing some pension money prematurely, but it is not responsible. The starting point is that the Minister of Finance took over a deficit of 37 billion. kr., and he presented a finance bill here in August with a deficit of 60 billion. kr. How can the Minister of Finance say he's got things under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172722	This can be claimed by reference to all the parameters I went through. The Danish economy is now in control. Economic policy is sustainable. There is structural balance in 2020. The structural and actual deficits remain within the deficit limits. The budgetary ceilings, which are something completely new, adopted by this government and, fortunately, by a broad majority, I think the Liberal Alliance voted against for strange reasons, I do not know why they are being respected now. Municipal budgets are respected. Regional budgets are respected. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. And, of course, there are deficits within borders as part of economic policy. I think that's very wise. This corresponds entirely to the calls made by the Presidency of the Economic Council. There's nothing wrong with that. In relation to the matter of using these pension funds responsibly in economic policy, I guess it was free from my memory, and I can be wrong on that point, but then I have to correct myself afterwards. Anders Samuelsen, who first operated with that idea in the political debate in Denmark in connection with one of the tax proposals launched when the party then called the New Alliance was founded. But perhaps we can do a little research in the Liberal Alliance's parliamentary group, and then we can return to the debate at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172834	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172834-2	What I just do not understand is that you lift yourself up to a pedestal and say that you have better control of the budgets than the previous government, when at the same time you have a deficit on your financial law for 2015 before the pension fin of 60 billion. kr., while the government from which the economy was taken over had a deficit which was almost half as large, namely 37 billion. kr. Does it really matter how much the deficit is? In other words, when we talk about managing budgets, it does not matter at all whether the deficit is 37 billion. kr. or 60 billion. kr.? Could you also have had a deficit of 120 billion? kr. and still say that the budgets were managed more than if you had a deficit of 37 billion. kr.? I think that the deficit is an important one. If you have almost doubled the deficit, then I do not think you have any more control over the budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217172931	After all, it was remarkable that the rapporteur failed to reflect on the things that were answered. This was partly because of the fact that the President of the Liberal Alliance did not experiment with pension funds at the time in a similarly responsible manner, of course, but nevertheless that the Presidency of the Economic Council has recommended a deficit of this magnitude in order to stimulate demand and job growth in Denmark. And then there is the fact that we are keeping within all the limits to which we have committed ourselves, thereby ensuring that economic policy is controlled in Denmark. Unfortunately, if you know a little about the subject, and the rapporteur certainly does, if the rapporteur wishes to enter into such discussions, examples of countries that have been suffering from small public deficits or even public surpluses. in Spain before the financial crisis but without having control of the fundamentals of the country's economy by the way. And so it was in a situation in which the situation of having a surplus on public finances was in no way sufficient or fair as to how the economy in question actually felt. Here in Denmark we measure a large number of other things in addition to the deficit, and it shows us that we have a handle on what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173037	Jesper Petersen's gotten into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173045	Thank you. I am taking the floor here because we had a discussion with the Conservative rapporteur who went on about this with the supplementary allocation reserve. The question was asked a few times about whether, at any time during the previous government, work was being done without an additional reserve, that is to say, making financial legislation without having any funds for unforeseen expenditure, and that could not really be answered at that time. However, since it is not only the Conservatives but also the Left who have actually proposed to agree to it, we could perhaps get the Minister's answer as to whether he remembers a time when he has worked without an additional reserve and whether it would really be particularly responsible not to have one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173134	Well, that's pretty concrete. As far as I am aware, there has never been any operation under the VK government without the supplementary allocation reserve, and I would strongly advise against doing so. Because it is precisely a buffer which ensures that there is money to cover unforeseen events, that is to say a guarantee in economic policy that we can actually finance what might happen over the year. So I think that can best be described as a small budgetary trick by the Left and the Conservative People's Party in connection with this year's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173207	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173208	Can it be so headlessly irresponsible to do so that perhaps that is why it has not been tabled as an amendment on which we shall vote later this evening? Could the Minister for Finance agree that this is the reason why it has not been tabled as an amendment? Or can you come up with other explanations such a evening from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173231	That would require a psychological insight which I do not have at all. That is quite possible, but if so, you have to ask the two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173239	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173240	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, Mr President. Jesper Petersen to come to the rescue of the Minister of Finance. The first questioners must have been so tough that the minister needed what in boxing is called a count on his fingers. Whether or not the Finance Minister is Finance Minister after the next parliamentary elections, the Minister for Finance should know that I have a deep fascination for him. In fact, he has been on what I would describe as a political transformation journey, which has rarely been seen in Danish politics. From being a candidate for parliament and the main writer of the cavalcade fair trial, the Minister of Finance has actually become entirely financially responsible for the first few years in the Finance Ministry's chair, now with his latest Finance Act, to return to time as a somewhat loose-minded candidate for parliament and in a spirit of gift. It is, of course, an analysis which is on my own account, but nevertheless I hope that the Minister of Finance will try to point out some of the areas in the Finance Act which creates private jobs. As new and as one of the remaining members of parliament, I cannot find it. This may be because I have not read it well enough, but it may be that the Minister for Finance will help. So where are the initiatives that create private jobs in the new Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173356	Well, it's very, very simple. After all, the Finance Act contains the growth agreements that we have concluded widely in the Folketing, most recently the one we concluded just before the summer holiday, but also the one that came before the season, i.e. in 2013. It's all in the Finance Act. In addition, the profile of the Finance Act, in other words the way we put it up, with the investments being made, is, of course, a positive move towards growth and employment. And the so-called financial effect, which can easily be considered more thoroughly afterwards, if it has an interest, is positive, and that is, of course, the aim of pushing positively towards growth and employment in society, including in the private sector, with the financial law that we will be adopting in a very short time, I hope. In this way, the task of balancing the need for both a stronger community for better welfare and a stronger community for more jobs is successful. That is also what the forecasts show is going to happen, and that is not just the government's forecasts, but also the National Bank's forecasts. So you can look forward to it in the back row.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173458	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173458-2	In any case, it can be said that the Minister of Finance is eight times the master of downgrading growth estimates. I also understand the political need to nurture its parliamentary hinterland instead of continuing political infidelity with the Left and other financially responsible parties. However, at a time when so much is being said about family reunification and the area of foreigners, I would like to commend the Minister for Finance for having created a certain economic family reunification between the Government's oil fund and the IC4 scandal and, in this context, ask whether it is not a matter of concern to a historically financially responsible finance minister that the oil price has been rattled down and that four days ago OPEC declared itself ready to sell oil at $40 a barrel. This removes a huge part of the economic foundation of the government's high-profile political plan for a train fund. I am aware that the question has been put to social democratic representatives who could not answer, but with the intellectual foundation and knowledge now represented on the platform, I hope that the Minister for Finance can answer whether it is not worrying and whether it does not undermine the potential of the Togfonden DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173604	Thank you for a friendly question, and that admiration and fascination is quite mutual. I think, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's question is some of the most poetic one gets in the Assembly Hall, and we also agree on the hairstyle, so there is a lot that gathers. When it comes to the price of oil and its fall, it is, in general, a positive thing for the economy. So, overall, this is something that strikes at a higher level of availability for consumers, lower costs for businesses, probably more growth, more jobs and better export opportunities for our companies. So I don't think we should be sorry about that. The Danish Railway Fund, which is financed by North Sea money, is quite robust. After all, it is over a long period of time that this money is falling and spent, and it is budgeted structurally, just as you have to budget that kind of thing, in other words on the basis of what will be the long-term price trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173700	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173701	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance for taking an active part in the debate on Finance Law in the Danish Parliament. My question is about development aid. With the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, the level of development aid is increasing, so in the future, by 2015, it will amount to 0.87%. of what is called GNP. Now we know that part of the increase is attributed to the fact that, according to some of the government, there are extraordinary expenditure in 2015 for the asylum area, which is charged to development aid. Therefore, I think the natural question in this context is: if it is the case that one half of the government believes that it is extraordinary spending in 2015 that will fall away again in 2016, development aid will fall again, or will it continue to be 0.87%. of GNP if it's up to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173801	After all, the level of development aid is fixed from year to year. You will be able to look at the proposal for 2016, how much money the government is prioritizing for that purpose. I will have the pleasure of putting forward such a proposal as Minister of Finance if I can have the support of the rapporteur and the support of the electorate for it, and I am, of course, prepared to do so. Of course, we will decide on this in the light of how much money is available and what are, moreover, priorities and things we would like to take into account. You take that year by year, at least in this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173831	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173832	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for Finance, of course, for trying to respond. I did not think it was quite adequate. This may, of course, be due to the fact that the Minister of Finance either does not know or does not want to tell us what the government's development aid policy in 2016 is. After all, we have worked very hard on development aid for 2015 with the Financial Law Agreement that is in place. It has been deep down in the various areas to find out where to save some money for this extra cost of 2.5 billion. kr. to be used in Denmark in connection with the asylum area. Now that you have a government base that says that over a number of years you have to reach 1%. It is true that from 2015 to 2016 there will be a decrease in the level of development aid. In other words, if you write in the government base that you want to reach 1% over a number of years. Can you imagine, then, Minister of Finance, running from what you have at least put your own voters in perspective and doing something else, namely lowering the level of development aid from 2015 to 2016? Is that scenario possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173938	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217173939	What I can well imagine is that we are acting completely responsibly, and that is why I do not think I can stand here as Minister of Finance and promise greater development aid in the coming years without, moreover, knowing the economic situation and the priorities we want to make. So even if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is pushing hard for greater development aid, it is not something we are getting through with today, at least not with me. That is what we are fixing from year to year in economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174006	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174011	Thank you. After all, this Finance Act is full of expensive promises, even though some of them will only be fulfilled next year or rather in 2016, but some of them will also be fulfilled in 2015, and this leads, as far as I can see, to the postponement of a legislative proposal for a reform of the electricity market, because one cannot afford the one-off expenditure that would then be in 2015. Does the Minister think that it is financially responsible to postpone a bill because all the money has been spent on the Finance Act instead of spending it on the legislative programme that has been planned?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174049	You have a good word in the Danish language for this type of arrangement. It's called priority, and that's what we use in this government. We give priority to what needs to be implemented so that we stick to the right side of the deficit limits to which we must stick. As I went through in my speech, which I believe the rapporteur had heard, that is not the case for the Left. After all, it is a good idea to go beyond the deficit limits to which we must stick. The government doesn't. We're prioritizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174119	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174122	However, it was nice to have a clear answer that it has been given priority because it would rather be given electoral vows. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about this national pension that you are going to give to refugees, which has been estimated to cost 90 million in the past. kr. a year, but only 7.1 million have been allocated. kr. to increase in 2015 to 14.6 million. kr. in 2018. Why has the government not financed the full price of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174151	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174153	So has the government. Such a Finance Act is technically designed to cover the financial year and then covers the 3 BO years, i.e. the three following years, and that is what is being introduced into the Finance Act. There is, of course, full funding, and there is also the long-term cost of this proposal, of the economic policy we are pursuing, of the room for manoeuvre already provided and fully funded in our 2020 plan. So that part of the matter is completely under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174217	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174218	After all, the Committee on Finance has today received an answer to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 152 on the consequences of the Left's The answer is that this would mean a deficit in the general government balance of 3.25%. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance could perhaps attach a few words to what it would actually mean for the Danish economy if the Left's financial bill were implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174245	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174246	Well, that would, if it were, mean that the risk of catching up with another recommendation from the European Union would be present, and this has been the experience of the Left, because that was also what happened when the Left was last responsible for economic policy. And the figure mentioned by the rapporteur I also included in my speech is, of course, the figure that appears if you count on the impact of the Left's proposal, without implementing the pension package which the Left has so sharply criticised in the past months. After all, we have had very good time to discuss this in the media, and now you can see the consequences of the opinions expressed in that debate, and you can see who, if you may say so, was on the right side of the borders in that discussion and that was the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174331	Then it's mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174340	Thank you for that, President. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked about development aid before, and that is why the government has chosen to refocus some money on development aid and has therefore temporarily moved a billion from the development aid we send out of the country to our partner countries to receive asylum seekers in Denmark. Let it go. In the past, Enhedslisten's rapporteur was on the platform, and he seemed to have had some doubts about what had actually been agreed about the last half billion. As I understand it, it has therefore been agreed that if the cost of asylum increases as much as they have been thought to be doing so, half a billion will be spent on development aid in the autumn. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is the agreement between the Government, Enhedslisten and the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174437	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174438	I do not now see my partners as being very much in doubt about what we have agreed. They tend to get to grips with things quite well, and what they have made sure of is that they go the other way, what may be some signs of right now, where there are fewer asylum seekers coming to Denmark according to the latest figures, then you take the money the other way. So the mechanism is established in the negotiations according to the requirements of SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174502	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174503	Thank you for making that clear. Can the Minister of Finance tell us where this half-billion is to be found? Are these commitments that you want to hold back or where do you suddenly find half a billion? For it may seem very convenient for an outsider to shoot this exercise to the other side of a parliamentary election, where you either sit safely in the saddle again or do something quite different. So where do you find half a billion?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174534	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174535	I think that is a perfectly objective approach, so that we do not provide these funds until we know if they will be needed. And now I have seen quite a lot of respect for the questioner that the questioner must apologize for but I think that this is a rather strange question from a party which, as far as I understand it, is in favour of 0.7 per cent of development aid and spends that money to fund parts of the party's economic policy proposals without, of course, launching any very clear specification of where they should then be taken from within the developing framework. It certainly has escaped my attention, but of course it may be me with whom it is mad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174607	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174614	The Finance Minister's party often accuses the Left of not wanting to put their policy forward. Now I really would like to hear from the Minister for Finance what the plans of the Minister for Finance and the party of the Minister for Finance are after an election, in other words in view of the fact that there are structural deficits when we come on the other side of 2020. This requires some solutions to the long-term challenges of the Danish economy, and they must start to be dealt with after the next elections as a minimum. So can the Minister of Finance tell us what reform plans are being made? After all, there must be reforms such as those we have been through in recent years. What offers does the Minister of Finance have there? What must be done to ensure that there is sustainability on the other side of 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174706	Technically, it is the case that there is durability, but the questioner will also be aware of this. We are pursuing an economic policy in Denmark at the moment, which is economically viable in the long term. It is clear from the Economic Statement, from a large number of other publications, from the Government's 2020 plan, that is a fact established. In addition, the government's plan is quite simple to follow the 2020 plan that we have put forward and then run according to the framework laid down in the 2020 plan. After all, this calls for us to implement even more policies that guarantee growth and employment in our private sector and provide even more private jobs than those already created under this government and which are likely to happen in the coming years. In addition, it creates a space for us to strengthen our community with a total of 20 billion. kr. Towards 2020. I think that is an important priority. I do not agree with the questioner, but that is the kind of thing that puts a little colour on Danish politics. In addition, I believe that there are many things that should and can be changed in Denmark. Surely we need to get more out of the money we spend in our public sector. We need to do more for our businesses. There is plenty of work to do, but the government, unlike the opposition, has a firm and responsible framework to solve the task within. That's where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174819	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174824	I guess we'll agree that there's some hammock effect when we get on the other side of 2020. There are many, many years of structural deficits. Then it is true that in the very long run it is connected, but I suppose there is also general agreement that there are some challenges on the other side of the election that need to be dealt with. It could, for example, be done. is handled with very low public spending, but I do not assume that this is the view of the Minister for Finance on matters. So I guess some reforms need to be made after a choice, also in view of the fact that we have the prospect of the sixth lowest growth in the OECD, out of the 34 OECD countries, up to 2030, that we have 2.1 million Danes on transfer income, a figure which, according to the Economic Statement, will rise to 2.3 million. So I guess there's a need for further reforms. Then the Minister for Finance cannot inform Parliament of this, so that we can also have a debate on what the priorities are after an election. I think it is a good thing that parties are putting forward their plans, we are doing so in the Liberal Alliance, but what could be imagined? Where are further labour market reforms to be carried out? Where should further reforms be made to increase productivity so that we do not have the sixth lowest economic growth and so that we can reduce the number of people outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174937	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217174939	I believe that changes will be seen on an ongoing basis if we re-elect the government we have now. I certainly think so. We have also proved this over the last three years that we want, but there is sustainability in economic policy. The problem with the hammock is of course an interesting one, which will probably also be discussed, but this hammock is based on certain assumptions about public consumption, as the questioner will be aware, and it is only with the assumption of public spending in the year 1.1% that there is a hammock. For my part, at least, I have not decided what the growth in public consumption will be from 2020 onwards. I think we're gonna get to that. On the other hand, I have laid out a completely firm framework on behalf of the government for how things can be in the next four years and the whole period up to 2020, and the good thing about that framework is that it is fully funded. Contrary to previous versions of these long economic plans, it is not based on the requirement that we have something for good that we don't know what is. It's based on things we've already done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175043	Sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175045	Now you could understand from the Minister of Finance that he almost took over a bankruptcy estate, a morass, it was almost completely immersed, and now it's all so much better I can see that it's being nodded off the Social Democratic benches as a confirmation of that. And I must also understand that this is where too much money had been spent under the former government, the VK government, in the public sector. I've also heard that the Prime Minister said that I think it was in the program "Mogensen and Kristiansen" here a few weeks or three ago. I asked the Prime Minister where, in the public sector, the Prime Minister thought that too much money had been spent. The Prime Minister did not want to reply to that, but instead referred to the Minister for Finance. That is why I now have the opportunity to ask the Minister for Finance: where is it more precisely that too much money was spent in the public sector under the VK government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175131	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175132	Now you get such a special debate out of taking the debate with yourself, in other words, where you like to invent the views of your opponent and then ask them. I can only say that what we took over was not particularly good in economic terms. As a country we had lost over 100,000 private jobs; we had had a strong economic downturn, also in relation to other Western countries; economic policy in Denmark was not under control; the kind of decisions that the current President of the Danish Parliament stood for when he was in charge in the 1990s had not been taken, which ensured a long recovery without that type of overheating; our productivity lagged behind other countries; public finances also left something to be desired. That is why we have taken the initiative, and now things are not perfect, but in much better shape. And with regard to public expenditure and the management of public expenditure, that is what we are discussing today. Fortunately, we have now got a budget law which governs this kind of thing and will also govern it for a long time to come, actually until somebody has broken the agreement that has been reached on this matter, and fortunately it is very broad and also includes the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175241	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175243	Well, today the Minister of Finance is very busy writing history, bearing in mind the view of history that the Minister of Finance has. Of course, this should not be in dispute, and that is why I see this answer as confirmation that the Minister of Finance agrees with the Prime Minister in the statement she has made, in other words that too much money was spent under the government of the VK in the public sector. The Minister for Finance, or, for that matter, the Prime Minister, does not want to answer where it was thought to be the case. But may I ask: if you have that view, could the Minister for Finance point to just one or perhaps two proposals made by the Minister for Finance or the Finance Minister's party during the corresponding period here in the Parliament or elsewhere, and where they actually asked for the public economy to be tightened up, that is to say, that less money was spent in the public sector under the then VK government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175329	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175330	Yes, and I think it was the present Prime Minister and my then party chairman, also my current party chairman, who at the time took the initiative to create a very, very large welfare agreement in which Denmark, as one of the few countries in Europe and one of the first countries in Europe, laid the foundations for indexing pension and early retirement ages in the future, which, of course, makes a very, very significant contribution to our balance in our economy, unlike other countries. Besides, I'm not busy with anything, I'm just trying to relate to the facts about our economy, the facts about the developments that are outside Christiansborg when you sort of put the controversy away. And then I quietly point to the fact that the questioner has risen and will be taking part in the debate... that what we have spent the last few months discussing here in Parliament has unfortunately gone well for the government and very badly for the Left. Because with the Left's Finance Bill, there is no pension package proposed by the government to go beyond the limits that the Left has otherwise said they will respect. And I think that, as far as the rapporteur is concerned, we should go home and work on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175435	Sir. Erling Bonnesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175438	Thank you. Where are the new jobs that need to be created in order to make enough money to close the larger gap which the government is making in its financial law? The government tells us very clearly that you are making the deficit bigger and actually doing so as much as possible within the rules that are now in place. Then it is also very relevant to ask what you have of plans to make enough money home to close that hole again. It seems to be floating a little in the air. After all, there are no new jobs for the private sector in order to generate greater growth in the coming years. You can see that there is a huge deficit, and then there is a bit of flaunting with these one-off income from the tax on pension schemes. And it's really weird to look at, for example. are slaughterhouse workers queued because they have either been fired or are on their way out of slaughterhouses elsewhere. There's a lot of people who want to work there. So where are the plans for the new jobs to come that will be needed so that we can earn home to close the larger hole that the government is now digging?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175539	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175540	I do not know whether the rapporteur has not followed up the debate until now, and that is somehow strange if that is the case. And I do not know whether it has completely escaped the rapporteur's attention that what the Left is proposing is a member of the Left Party, I am responding to a greater deficit than what the government is actually proposing and where we are keeping within the limits. When it comes to private jobs, I would say that they are out in reality, which can sometimes be tempted to think is a rather more interesting place than the political debate. Because what is really happening in these weeks, these months, these years, is that we get more private jobs. One might ask the 204 top leaders who participate in Berlingske's top management panel. It is not a Social Democratic newspaper, and it is not a panel that is influenced by my party or by the government. How can it be that they forecast that more progress will be made in the private sector of our economy in the near future? Yes, that is probably due to the fact that economic policy is actually under control, as opposed to the period when the questioner himself had the pleasure of leading this with his party and where we lost over 100,000 private jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175653	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175655	I think it's the finance minister who's gonna take a trip out in real life. And it is quite amazing that the Finance Minister's defence work is beginning to look at what the policy of the Left is. And in the calculation to which the Minister of Finance refers in the Left, you pick something out to make it look bad. That's weird. It is clear, then, that the things that lie with regard to disposable income are not simply left behind. That's a fact, because that's what the government decides. So it's gonna be a fictional calculation that the government's running. But the fact that this is the best defence work the Minister of Finance can do shows just how weak a basis the Finance Act is based on, as it is now. Then it is true that new jobs have been created, but that is far from enough, because we can look down into a big gaping hole, a deficit. So there is a shortage of new jobs in the private sector in order to generate a greater surplus again to close that gap. That is simply what we lack the answer to, and the Minister for Finance was not near giving an answer to it. But then there is also the answer, because it is a non-answer you do not have a bid on how to close that hole. And the previous questioner also said that if you look forward to 2020, there are deficits after that, as far as the eye can see. So apparently the government is on the ground on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175815	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175816	Well, if you want to make a political speech instead of asking a question, you are welcome to do so. It is entirely within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, as I understand it. But the best friend you can have in this kind of discussion is reality. And the reality out there shows that we are creating more jobs, including private jobs, in these years; our competitiveness is considerably strengthened compared to when we had a VK government; and public finances are better managed. There is a concrete plan, a 2020 plan, that is, a plan that goes many years ahead, for how this is going to be even better, what it should of course be. And that is what the Left is missing. And what is characteristic of the debate on these matters is that it is not just me that it is not just the governing parties, that it is not just the government's supporting parties; it is also parties in the bourgeois bloc that are calling for the Left to give corresponding concrete answers to how the Left intends to deal with these issues. That's the interesting part.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175913	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217175916	Thank you, President. Look, I'm sitting here on my chair and I'm actually full of respect for the Minister of Finance's speech, because, Minister of Finance, I'm burdened by the fact that I'm a history teacher. I regard myself as a good history teacher, and I have never heard anything else, but I can hear that the stories that the Minister of Finance can tell I cannot reach the sockholders at all. The Minister for Finance mentions in his very long speech and so on that before the Minister arrived, everything was just about to get off the rails and so forth, that the economy was overheated and that the reforms launched by the previous government have not meant anything to what our situation is like in Denmark at the moment. I have a very specific question. After all, the minister was the main architect of Fair Solution and Fair Change. If the two plans had now been implemented, thank God they would not have contributed to the overheating of the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180016	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180017	Hardly for overheating. There was almost what you have to say was a massive underheating. At the time when we took over the government, it was all over with partying and colors in the economy and the fact that we could buy the whole world and that it all went on its own. It was well over. After all, these plans were based on a precautionary principle which meant that the money could not be used until it had been found, that is to say financed. That is the precautionary principle which has now become law in Denmark. Now it is not just something that parties are proposing any longer, it is now something that is written into the law, namely in a budget law which, fortunately, the Left has also voted for, but which, as far as I understand, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party have opposed. So it's worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180103	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180105	Yeah, well, you could start talking about who took the preliminaries to a budget law and so on. However, when the Minister, in his speech from the beginning, spends a long time telling about overheating and that too much money has been spent in the public sector, and then you know that the Minister was the main architect of the Fair Solution and Fair Change, who would pour out even more money, money that you didn't have, I see the Minister's answer now and here as a recognition that you had just put those plans in the lake because you had to win a popular election. You went out and promised an incredible lot of things you never did. Can you draw the same parallel to the Finance Act that we are debating here today, i.e. that you have put a lot of things in the lake that will not come next year, which will not be until 2016 and in the years of estimates? Is it just a Finance Act for 2015, which will help ensure that the Minister of Finance has a small probability of being re-elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180204	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180205	Yes, I know that it is such a claim that appears in the attack manual, and that is why it must be made as often as possible. It simply has nothing to do with anything, because anyone will be able to make sure if you read the draft budget, and it is, of course, freely available to everyone that what is being used is also financed. What is being given out, we will make sure that money comes in as well. It is not just in 2015, it is also in the coming years. What we are proposing, what we want to see happen in the coming years too, and what we have agreed, indeed, can happen with the funding we have already provided. That is the new and positive aspect of this government's economic policy. I would also like to say that, technically speaking, the concept of overheating is used in the context of economic policy. This is what happens if we do not manage the economic situation by increasing demand, when things are not really going on in Denmark, just as the government is doing in these years, and reducing it once things have got under way, just as the President of the Danish Parliament took responsibility for doing so when we last had a social democratic government, which ensured us a very, very healthy economic development for many years to come. This was not done by the later VK government, and this has also been thoroughly criticised by all expert economists in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180324	Mrs Jane Heitmann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180326	Thank you. I understand from the Minister for Finance that the government is committed to creating more jobs by 2020. I feel like most Danes, that I am much more concerned with creating growth and jobs now and here. I am much more concerned with the situation now than with the situation until 2020. It is true that in 2012 500,000 Danes made use of the housing job scheme, and Dansk Byggeri has calculated that the housing job scheme has created 5,000 jobs, so it must be said that it is a scheme that both the Danes and the business community have taken on board. Now the government wants to close it down and instead it wants to throw a gift rain after the trade union movement, it wants to increase the deduction of trade union quotas. Will the Minister of Finance not tell me and the rest of Denmark how many jobs it creates?
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180427	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180428	Basically, if you are concerned about jobs and employment by the questioner, you should go out and look at reality outside Christiansborg and look at the statistics and then rejoice that Denmark has a government that has created more jobs, also more private jobs than when we had a government that was led by the questioner's party, where we also lost jobs. Then it is probably the case that if you want to create jobs here and now, you have to take an interest in what is going on in 2020 too; then you have to have a handle on what needs to be done in the longer term too, and that is why so many parties demand a plan for those parts of the Left Party. We did not get it today either, but it may be coming in the new year, because at least that is what we need. As far as the craftsman's allowance is concerned, I would say that it is a priority that we do not think we can afford it. We are in a situation where we would rather dispose of the funds for example. cancer treatment in our hospitals or helping chronic patients. After all, the overall effect of the Finance Act is a positive boost to employment, including private employment. The craftsman's allowance has been a very good thing for a period of time, but the fact is that it has created relatively few jobs and has gone to support relatively many things that would have been done in any case, including the support that I myself have received, because of course I have taken advantage of it, as indeed very many Danes with good incomes already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180551	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180553	I can at least say once again that it is symptomatic of the Red Government that it is not responding to what is being asked. I heard a lot of words coming out of the Finance Minister's mouth, but in fact I did not answer my question, which was actually quite simple, namely how many jobs the increased deduction of trade union quotas creates. But let that be the case, I would like to say to the Minister for Finance, because I do not really think we are getting any closer here. I would also like to say that the cadence is that I am asking and the Minister for Finance is answering, although I could use the speaking time here to tell you how the Left will create both growth and jobs. But now that is not the point of this question. Now the Minister for Finance himself mentions health, and we all know that the Minister for Finance is the architect of Fair Solutions, and I have noticed from the draft budget that has been put forward that priority will be given to health by 600 million. kr. in 2015. After all, the minister himself has written in a Fair Solution that in 2015 health will be given a priority of 7.5 billion. I would just like to ask the Minister when the last 6.9 billion. kr. will be given health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180701	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180702	The point of what we are doing now is surely that we should have a political debate, and I am glad we have that, which is why we must also be able to take part in the political debate. I think that this demand for an economic plan from the Left is probably not getting rid of by referring to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. When it comes to this deduction for trade union quotas, it is of course a contribution to getting lower taxes on work in Denmark for ordinary employees. It is not a matter of giving a gift to anyone, and certainly not to the trade unions. This is a reduction in the tax on labour for 1.3 million Danish employees, who every day put to work, work through and pay their taxes to keep the welfare society running. I have to say that in my quiet mind I have wondered how the Left Party has ended up there, i.e. where one turns against lower taxes on work for ordinary people, ordinary employees. In any case, it must be said that some of the other debates that we have, whether it is worthwhile to work and whether or not there should be proper conditions for ordinary people, are then put in a very special light.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180809	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180814	First of all, I have to plead with the Minister of Finance. I have done so several times and now I hope that the Minister for Finance will confirm what he has replied to me in writing. Because when the Minister for Finance says he has predecessors who said that you could buy the whole world, would the Minister for Finance not be sorry that he has used that expression and say that it is not true and that the Minister for Finance has had to confirm in writing that no former Minister for Finance has said so? Can we not make it absolutely clear at some point? The thing about accusing the former Minister of Finance of saying that you could buy the whole world is a falsum, and the Minister of Finance knows that well. It would be liberating to get it in place. However, there are, of course, many things that the Minister of Finance needs to rectify, and I agree with that. In any case, he also has the merit of remedying the matter by answering the question put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Jensen: Where was it in the '00s that the Socialists wanted to save? Where was it that was spent too much money? What proposals came from the Social Democratic Party to limit public expenditure? It is just because we want to have a true history writing, and the Minister for Finance owes some real answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180924	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217180925	Well, it was an incredible excitement on behalf of one of my predecessors, Mr. Thor Pedersen. I have no responsibility for what came out of my predecessor's mouth. I can just say that the quote that is often mentioned, also by me, is, to me, a fantastic good picture of the mood that was around economic and economic policy in Denmark at the time. And what we saw, unfortunately, only a short time later, was that the idea of the state of affairs was not based on a very solid basis, because when we first had a financial crisis, we also had a situation where what we had thought was so fantastic and was so fantasticly healthy, in reality it turned out to be quite unhealthy and quite untenable. That is also the answer to the second question. Well, the 00s can't be reversed, but the rating of the 00s is left. Everyone is free to make their observations. And I'm not the only one taking part in that debate. It is also the totally independent economists who assess the policy being pursued in Denmark. And they are in no doubt: the government we have now is, in terms of the economy, better than the one we had before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181036	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181038	I just think it's too lame. I think it is pathetic that we have a finance minister who does not want to refer to former colleagues correctly. We can then give up on that, but fortunately I have the answers in writing where the Minister for Finance had to explain fully what the former Minister for Finance said. But, of course, the facts may lie in a small place with this government. I have still not received an answer as to where social democracy would save in the past. If you take the trouble to look at, among other things. The Rangvid report, one can see that it says that it may well be that there were some warnings that the government overheard, but it was even worse with the opposition. So I just want to know whether the remark in the Rangvid report that the opposition at that time would spend even more money is a falsum and whether the Rangvid report is wrong, or whether the Minister of Finance can confirm that the policy pursued by the party of the Minister of Finance when they were in opposition was to spend even more money, and that the Rangvid report criticises the opposition then for their policy just for the sake of histories. When the Minister for Finance is so busy with that, it would just suit the Minister for Finance to stand by what has been said and what has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181146	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181147	It suits everyone. I think that when it comes to writing history, there is free evidence, as is said in law. And what one could at least just see was the result of a number of years of economic block policy in Denmark. It was something that looked very good for a period of time, but then turned out to be quite untenable. It has then been my job to correct it, and I think we are quite well on track with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181215	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Well, then, sir. Jacob Jensen asked to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181231	Thank you. Welfare or tax relief, it sounded over and over again before the 2011 elections. After all, there was no limit to what the Social Democrats and the SF promised the Danes if only they came into government: 12 billion. kr. extra for service in the municipalities; two teachers in each primary school class; more to the developing countries; 5 billion. kr. extra for public wages; cheaper public transport; all transfer income should increase by DKK 2,000. And I guess there was something about a pay ring. But what has happened to these promises? Nothing. On the contrary, no more money has been made available to citizens for the provision of services in primary school, in children's institutions, in the care of the elderly. On the contrary, some 1 billion cuts have been made. kr. in the economy of the municipalities under this government. So the promised check was not sent to the mayor's offices; a giro card was sent instead. And because elections are about to take place again, we must listen to new promises from the Socialists about more money for children, for the sick and for the elderly. But what do we see in the government's own financial statement which appeared last week? Closing of expenditure, zero growth, if you like, in the public economy in 2016. So we have a government and a Social Democratic government which, for three years, has carried out a minus growth in the local economy and which is planning with an approximate cost freeze, funny enough in the year following a parliamentary election. And then, in the Left, we must listen to a murky criticism of our proposal to keep the costs of one of the world's largest public sectors in a calm state of criticism from a party that has so much paid off to power with an unprecedented number of outstanding promises. It works on me like water does on a goose: it completely bounces off. Right, however, must be right. The government will actually spend extra money in 2015, funny enough in an election year. But will this extra money bring more prosperity? Well, as you know, most of the extra money goes to the drastically increased expenditure in the area of asylum. I do not know whether the so-called ordinary Danes will be able to feel a boost in welfare as a result of this Furthermore, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, in a reply to me in the Finance Committee here recently, has said that he does not believe that the service during the last three years of negative growth in the municipalities has deteriorated. On the contrary, he says: service provision has been improved in priority areas. But at this time there is no great agreement between the views of the Radicals and the Socialists in a large number of key areas. But what has negative growth meant in the municipalities? 11,000 fewer full-time jobs over the last 3 years, according to the Finance Minister, fewer educators, fewer primary school teachers, fewer SOSU assistants. On the other hand, you can see that our country has become poorer when you look at the total economy in terms of GDP. The growth estimate has been downgraded over and over again, eight times in a row. And then we see a government bill that doesn't give one new private job. On the contrary, the Finance Act withdraws labour supply from the labour market in the government's own words. What does it help that little Peter in kindergarten get 0.002 extra educator or 3 minutes extra adult time a week if dad and mom don't have a job? In the Left, unlike the Socialists, we will not promise more than we can keep. In return, we will keep what we promise. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217181611	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That does not seem to be the case, and then I shall consider the debate on the amendments as closed. Before we begin the vote, there will be a short break. I suggest we meet again at noon. 18.25.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217182500	Then we'll resume the meeting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217182504	To section 5. Prime Minister's Office. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One by the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 448 by V, DF and LA, and you can vote now. And we're gonna get to the keys a little fast if we're gonna get through this. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 48 (V, DF and LA), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 449 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 9 (LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 43 (V and DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-13 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14-31 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Business and Growth. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 32-38, 506 and 39-46 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 47 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 48 of the Minister for Finance and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 10 (LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 450 of V, LA and KF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 39 (V, LA and KF), against 58 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. To section 10. Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 451 of LA rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 49 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 452 of LA, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 453 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 9 (LA and KF), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 507 and 50 of the Finance Minister? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 51 and 52 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 454 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 6 (KF and 1 (V) (by mistake)), against 63 (S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 41 (V and DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 53 of the Minister for Finance, and we can now vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 10 (LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 54-64 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 65-97 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 455 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 10 (EL and KF), against 86 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and 3 (EL) (by mistake), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 98-115 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 116 and 117, 508-512 and 118-120 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 121-135 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 136 of the Minister for Finance, and we can now vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 10 (LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 137-149 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 150 of the Minister for Finance and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 10 (LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 151-179, by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and Prevention. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 180-185 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 186 of the Minister for Finance and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 5 (LA), abstention 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 187-199 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 456 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (KF), against voting 86 (V, S, RV, SF and EL), abstention 19 (DF and LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 200 of the Minister for Finance and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 99 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 10 (LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendments were adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 201 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 202-214, 513, 216, 514, 218, 515 and 516, 221-233, 517 and 235-238 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 239 by the Minister for Finance now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 70 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 39 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 240-242, 518 and 244-270 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 271-292, 519, 520 and 295-298 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 299-304 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 305 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), against 5 (LA), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 306-343 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 344-357 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 358 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 457 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (DF and KF), against 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. To section 23. Ministry of the Environment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 359-369 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 24. Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 370-372 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 373 of the Minister for Finance, and we can now vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 5 (LA), abstention 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 458 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (KF), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 43 (V and DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 374-383 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 384-393 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 459 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 39 (V, LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 394-398 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. The Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 399 by the Minister for Finance now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), against 53 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 400, 521 and 401-416 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 417-422 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 460 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 10 (LA and KF), against 71 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 29 (V). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 423-430, 522 and 431-436 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 437 by the Minister for Finance now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 86 (V, S, RV, SF and EL), against 19 (DF and LA), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 438 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 461 of the CF now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (KF), against voting 90 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 15 (DF and 1 (V) (by mistake)). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 462 of the CF now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 5 (KF), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 43 (V and DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 463 of the CF, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 5 (KF), against 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 464 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 34 (V and LA), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 465 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 29 (V), against 67 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 14 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 466 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 42 (V and DF), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 467 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 29 (V), against 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 468 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote on 29 (V), against 81 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 469 of V and DF, and you can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 41 (V and DF), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 5 (LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 581 by CF now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (KF), against voting 85 (V, S, RV, SF and EL), abstention 19 (DF and LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 470, by V. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 29 (V), against 56 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 24 (DF, LA and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 471 by Mr V. A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 34 (V and LA), against 71 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 472 of V and DF and can be voted now. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 42 (V and DF), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 10 (LA and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 473 of V, and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 34 (V and LA), against 56 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 19 (DF and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 474 of V and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 33 (V and LA), against 55 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 19 (DF and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 475 by Mr V. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 34 (V and LA), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 19 (DF and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 476 of V and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 48 (V, DF and LA), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 477 of V, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 34 (V and LA), against 71 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 478 of V and LA, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 39 (V, LA and KF), against 71 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 479 of LA, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 480 by LA. A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 481 of LA, and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 482 of LA, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 483 by L.A. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 5 (LA), against 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 484 488 by Mr LA who was rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 489 of DF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 14 (DF), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL and KF), we abstained from voting on 34 (V and LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 490 of DF. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 95 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 491 of DF, and vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 22 (DF and EL), against 80 (V, S, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 8 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 492 of DF, and you can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 14 (DF), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and LA), we abstained from voting on 34 (V and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 493 of DF, and vote now. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 96 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 494 of DF, and vote now. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 96 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 495 by DF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 14 (DF), against 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 5 (LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 496 by DF. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 96 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 497 by DF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 14 (DF), against 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL and LA), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 498 by DF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (DF and LA), against 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 34 (V and KF). The amendment has been rejected. For section 36. Pensioners. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 439 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 523-535 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 499 by Mr KF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (KF), against 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 500 of LA. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 99 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 536 and 443 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 501 of DF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 22 (DF and EL), against 88 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 537-540 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 502 of LA now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 541 and 542 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 503 of LA now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 543 and 544 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 504 of LA now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 5 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 545-551 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 505 by Mr KF. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 10 (LA and KF), against 71 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 29 (V). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 552-557 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 558-560, 447 and 561-571 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted to Article 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 572-577 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 578-580 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. That concludes the votes on the amendments. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings in the Chamber are closed accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141217185949	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 18 December 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
