ParlaMint-DK_20141211100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national survey of foster housing units). Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the decision-making powers in the field of electronic ankle shackles). Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and Dennis Flydtkjær (DF): Request no. F 14 (Will the Minister explain the government's current plans for the development of Blue Denmark, including how far the initiatives have been implemented in the Government's Wake-up Plan for the Blue Denmark?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100050	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100108	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 6 (KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100141	No amendments have been tabled. Hopefully we have overcome the technical problem. No amendments have been tabled. I do not think anyone wanted to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100442	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100530	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 106 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100601	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100616	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 104 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100648	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100701	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 93 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 14 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100732	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to comment on the amendment? Mr. Lars Dohn as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100804	I would like to justify our amendments to the urban renewal law. It is a matter of these mold cases, where it can be said that the procedure at present is causing a large number of problems. We would like to see these problems reduced or eliminated through the proposed amendment. What often happens when a mold case is submitted to the municipality is that the municipality sends one of the municipality's own construction technicians. What is important is that it should be an independent company that investigates the case and decides who is responsible for this issue, because it is very important for the possibility of bringing a trial later. It is very important for the parties to know as early as possible what the cause is. Is it tenant behavior, is it too little heat, is clothes dried in the apartment, or is it the building structure that is too bad? Finally, we would like an independent company to come in again before the residents of the dwelling are refurbished. What is happening out there is that too many mold cases move a new family in. The skim is just painted over, and then we have this case going on. So these things would fix the situation very strongly out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211100951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101003	We have provided technical assistance for this amendment, and we must do so when asked to do so. I'd like to say that mold is not something to joke about. Mold at worst destroys people's lives with years of illness. I fully recognize that mold in our homes is a serious problem, but it is not only in the case of housing for rents, and this proposal deals only with rentals. Mold does not take ownership into account. Therefore, there are rules in the urban renewal law which are designed to ensure that all types of housing are protected by the law, and I believe that this must continue to be the case in the future. Under the urban renewal law, the municipalities' regulatory and regulatory obligations are clearly and very clearly defined. This also applies to molds. That is why it may be surprising when, nevertheless, it happens that some citizens do not believe that they have received the procedure in the municipalities that they are entitled to have. That is why, earlier this year, I have made the rules clear to the municipalities that they have an unambiguous and clear duty to intervene when there is a health risk in a dwelling, and I would like to stress that no citizen should live in a health-dangerous dwelling. We must ensure this in the best possible way, so that it is the urban renewal law, and not the building law, that is to say that there is a duty to rehouse. But the way forward is not just that which this amendment covers. The way forward is, of course, an increased guidance effort, because I believe that the rules that exist are good enough and very clear. The municipalities must then be better advised about the rights and obligations arising from the urban renewal law, including in the case of mold. After all, citizens must have easy and unhindered access to relevant information about prevention and their opportunities, in the event of molds in their homes. KL and other stakeholders in the field • It may be urban renewal boards, it may be housing lawyers etc. I would like to make a commitment here from the platform to start this year. However, specific special rules on molds in private rental homes do not belong in the urban renewal law, so the government cannot support this amendment. But we agree with the seriousness of these matters and I would like to make an increased effort in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101232	I think there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101236	The Minister said that no one here is a proposal which in essential areas improves the situation of tenants. It is about an issue with which the renters' LO and other tenant organizations have worked hard over the last 7-8 years because it is an increasing problem in many houses. Why on earth should part of that solution not be included? One cannot, of course, vote against a proposal simply because it only partially solves the problem and then does not put forward a proposal itself that improves the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101313	Two things: one is that I believe it is about improved counselling efforts, the involvement of citizens and local authorities. In fact, earlier this year I have written to the municipalities and imposed their obligation to act in this area. The second is that we do not in fact believe that a proposal that changes a large number of complaints should only deal with one type of housing on the whole housing market. The question of mold does not only cover rentals; it covers cohabitation, it covers condominiums, and it covers private homes. I would like to say that the view of the government and my view is that the legislation is actually good enough. There is an unequivocal right to intervene and an obligation to intervene if people live in hazardous housing, and it is the municipality that is responsible for the housing supply in the municipality. So this amendment would be more confusing than it would improve the situation. In addition, some institutional duties are attributed to the official doctor. The municipalities can now draw on all kinds of other than only the medical institution, but can also involve it. In fact, we believe that the rules are good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101408	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101410	I thought it was social democratic policy that if you could get a little improvement through, you would take it with you when the opportunity was here. I myself have been volunteering in a tenant's organization and watching one mold case after another, and so I thought: the possibilities are not in order, sir. Minister. The possibilities to intervene against these cases are not at all in order, and this is documented by one tenant organisation after another, and not least the renters' LO in Horsens has done a formidable job to uncover this area. Year after year, you have documented to successive ministers that it is time for this problem to be taken seriously and not just with guidance. So it's hardcore landlords who only have one thing in their head: making money from their tenants who cheat time and time again in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101458	Sir. Christian Juhl, we are actually taking this very seriously. That is why, earlier this year, I have also insisted on the possibilities for action, their rights and obligations of the municipalities: action must be taken if there are hazardous housing, and it is the municipality that is responsible for the housing supply in the municipality. In fact, we believe that the legislation is good enough. It is a question of the municipalities acting as they should, and we have seen some instances in which they have not done so. That is why I have told the municipalities what needs to be done. I have also promised from the platform today that we will look at it to see if we can map out more of the cases in which it has gone wrong, despite the fact that we believe that the legislation is good enough. However, making a new proposal involving only one type of housing, which is, moreover, a mishmash of various complaints, and saying that it is the official doctor who has to make the overall decision here, is not reasonable. It will confuse more than it will benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101550	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else want to make a statement? That is not the case, and then the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101558	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Mr Lars Dohn (EL), and a vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 17 (EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101632	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101638	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 102 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101706	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101724	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 99 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101801	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101816	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 102 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101850	Sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211101909	I would like to make a few comments on a number of other points. the amendment that has been tabled to this draft law. After all, the legislative proposal is about the fact that the government parties and the right have the misconception that the way to create development in coastal and natural areas is undermining the protection of natural areas and reducing the protection of coastal areas. This is one of the elements of the bill. That speaks for itself, and we have discussed it at first reading. There's not much more reason to do anything about it. Answers to committee questions clearly show that the government has no assurance that this will not lead to a lasting deterioration in coastal protection and protection of nature in Denmark. There is no way of ensuring that, and that is so sad. The second part of the bill is about removing the possibility of planning for low-energy buildings in local plans, and this is such a particularly strange proposal, because the argument in the comments is that it removes one. This might be called simplification, it says, and it is true that if you remove an opportunity for municipalities to take account of the environment and climate, you might call it simplification. There have also been some who have been asking whether you did not have any better explanations for it, and that is true, because you have had a study done that shows that if you build some homes where you make greater demands on energy, that is to say for a lower energy consumption, that means that the homes will be a little more expensive. Therefore, the municipalities should not have this opportunity. There is no reminiscent of assessments of the socio-economic consequences; there is nothing reminiscent of assessments of climate and environmental significance other than that the comments state that it is not expected to have any greater significance. No, it must be said that this will not be of any greater importance, and it is pointed out that this area is already regulated by the legislation. There is our point of view, then, that when you reduce the possibility of making demands on energy quality in the building, it probably has environmental and climate implications. We will come back to this in a conciliation which we will keep between the second and third readings, because I am sure that when you ask the Minister for Climate Change and the Minister for the Environment, they will have better explanations than what has come so far. It can't be that bad. Then we have asked for the bill to be split up, and I would like to say that I am grateful that all the other parties in the Folketing support that proposal. I know that the governing parties were a little slow to come to the conclusion that they had to support it, that it was divided, but that was the conclusion when one could see that there was a majority to divide it, and it is good and illustrative that understanding for this kind of thing grows when one can see that one is otherwise voted down. But, of course, I have noticed that the opposition supported it all the way, and we are, of course, pleased about that. When we have asked for it to be split up, it is for the simple reason that the last element, the whole year's residence in the summer cottage areas of the 27 small islands, we must admit and recognise may also have some negative environmental and climate consequences, especially because there are no special requirements for insulation and quality of these houses. On the other hand, we have to say that exactly in relation to the 27 small islands, we believe that the situation is so serious and the need to do something to create development is so important that we would actually very much like to vote for it, and so do we, and I am very pleased that the draft law can be divided so that we can have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211102245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211102255	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning and the law on nature protection]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF, IA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 17 (EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning and construction]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-8, elected by the committee? They are adopted. It is proposed that Bill No. L 70A is referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I then propose that Bill No. L 70 B goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211102445	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I am taking a very short break before we go to the first reading so that the votes can fall in the Chamber. Yes, we need to move a little more discussions out of the Assembly Hall. I think it's gonna help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211102607	The debate is open. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211102636	The SF has proposed the establishment of a mortgage institution for loans to owner-occupied housing and commercial property in the outermost regions. The mortgage credit institution is proposed to operate either on market conditions with a higher interest rate or with the help of the State in the form of either a certain loss coverage or through subsidies to interest rates. The Government does not consider that such a State mortgage institution should be set up and sees a number of problems in the proposal. Among other things, it will: be very problematic to define in which specific areas of Denmark citizens should have access to special state lending. Nor is it clear what the scope of such a system should be, and thus how many people in the outermost regions should have access to a state loan scheme if necessary. It will certainly not be all citizens, but how can we select those who are particularly needy? As I understand the proposal, an approach is that the institution at a higher interest rate than the market rate should grant loans to customers who cannot obtain loans elsewhere. Such a failure to borrow from private institutions must either be due to the fact that the value of the mortgage is assessed as too uncertain, or to the fact that the loan applicant's economy is not considered to be sufficiently good. As a result, a government institution will probably have a customer base characterised by low credit quality lending. The Institute will therefore have a loan book with significant loss risks and any losses will ultimately be borne by the Treasury. Another variant is • as I understand it • that the institution must offer loans with a lower interest rate than the market rate based on government coverage or subsidies. However, such a model would affect the competitive situation on the market. If the institution can grant loans at interest rates lower than those in the private market, then many borrowers will apply for a lower interest rate at the State Institute, and that is, whether they themselves could already obtain a loan from a private institution. This would, of course, be a serious distortion of competition and could act as indirect subsidies for rising housing prices in the affected areas. It is also crucial that the credit rating of a credit institution is sharp. Today, the public system does not have the competence to assess loan applications. It will be resource-intensive to build such competences, regardless of which of the two models we base ourselves on. If the credit rating is not sufficiently sharp, it would entail a risk of significant losses. We have a well-functioning mortgage system in Denmark, which accounts for a very large part of the total lending to homeowners and businesses. And the institutions have clearly indicated, also at the recent parliamentary hearing, that they are granting loans to creditworthy projects also in the outermost regions in accordance with the rules laid down in mortgage law. In recent years we have also seen increased competition from financial institutions, which have increasingly begun to borrow on the housing market. Finally, I would like to repeat that I have stated on several occasions that it is unacceptable for applicants to be rejected simply because of the postal code of the property. Both money and mortgage institutions tell me that this is not the case and that in each case they make a concrete assessment of the loan application. In order to learn more about the problem, I have also encouraged people who have received refusals because of geographical location alone to contact me. However, I have not received any evidence so far that the refusals have been made because of the geographical location of the property in a particular postal code area. I think that the right thing to do now is to increase our factual knowledge of financing conditions in the outermost regions. I have therefore taken the initiative to ensure that, on the basis of data from industry organisations, the Ministry of Business and Growth prepares statements on housing financing in the outermost regions on a future basis. By increasing the data base, we can discuss the issue on the basis of facts instead of feelings and sensations. As already indicated, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103112	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103117	I know, of course, that the Minister was present at the hearing we held in the Folketing, and I would like to know whether the Minister does not find it strange that some examples can be cited. In fact, we heard a great deal of cases in the consultation which indicated that there is a problem. And the real estate agents and the bank that was represented also say that there is a problem. I understand that it can be difficult to get to grips with can be difficult to get documented, but I think the point is that a lot of those refusals never get down to writing, because they are slowed down somewhere earlier. In addition, there are quite a few who still think they need a good relationship with their bank or mortgage, so they are afraid to come forward. I understand that the Minister is not enthusiastic about the SF's proposal, but what does the Minister think we should do in the outermost regions where this is a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103218	I would like to say that I also followed these examples at the conference, and you have to be clear that when you ask private owners of money that is what we are talking about here, we are talking about lending money, they have to make a credit rating in each case, and then they have to find out if they think it is sustainable to borrow the money. It's not the case that you have a legal claim that you have to. It's a credit rating that's made from place to place. This is other people's money. So there are many reasons why credits have not been specifically granted. I remember, for example, that we were told at the conference that there was a company that would have liked to develop a warehouse somewhere in the countryside, and it is clear that there will be a credit association and others who want to put up with it and assess it, because what if they suddenly move out of there or if things suddenly go wrong for the company, who really wants to put his business out there? So you always have to weigh the risk in relation to it. Having said this, I have said that we are constantly getting reports that there may be something here, but it cannot really be documented, it is not right to know it and everything else. I cannot, of course, make legislation on the basis of some sensations or feelings, and that is why I have asked to get in all the data that I can get in at all, so that we can keep a close eye on whether there are increasing loans where there are problems. And if we then identify the problems correctly, we will of course have to discuss whether there is anything extra that we can do. But so far, the best thing we can do is actually know what is actually the case out there and what is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103347	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103350	I also do not think that people should be entitled to a loan, of course they should not have it. If there are dilapidated rooks, I can understand that you are not borrowing out. But I really think the most important contribution is that there is an understanding that there is a need for an alternative lending market outside the bank, which had examples of people who could not get loans elsewhere but who would then have matched other loans. The point is that the loans become more expensive and probably also with a shorter payback. So this is a bomb under our perimeter if people out there can't get a mortgage. But could the Minister not then impose on banks and mortgage institutions that they must be able to document if they refuse if they slow down something, so that we can get a little more overview and a little more knowledge of where in the process this is going wrong, because I really think it is important that we get on with this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103443	I fully agree to go further, I fully agree to the examination of everything; that is to say, no one wants us to have a well-functioning loan market in the outermost regions too, because the more the economy gets going, and then we are all happy. So I totally get it. I will take all kinds of sensible initiatives in this direction, so I have no problem with that. What I have problems with is if I have to make legal claims or state companies at some point in time, and of course I also have to be careful when it is that I ask people to document various things so that it does not create unnecessary administrative burdens. But compared to such things as outside banks or something else, it was just, as far as I could judge, a rather limited portfolio they all had. However, I am aware that there are other banks that borrow on the mortgage market, which borrow out in the ordinary, and then it may be a little more expensive, but it may also reflect the risk that is then out there. And the more we can just make things work, the happier I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103542	Sir. Lars Dohn, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103546	I get the impression that the Minister places a great deal of emphasis on the risk of the lenders and not quite so much on what the situation is like out there, where, although in many cases you have been granted credit, you cannot obtain a loan. Now this issue has been running for a few years now, and I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister or the Ministry has examined, for example. the Norwegian house loan scheme or the Icelandic scheme, where you also have a state company. I understand that the Minister's party colleagues in the Rural Committee are now working with the bourgeois on a solution which must be found outside state funding, so I understand that the possibility is completely ruled out. Has the implementation of a state company been examined by the two neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103645	There were a number of questions here. First of all, I would like to say to the question whether I am defending the interest of the lender, that I am, in fact, in so far as, for example, a part of the mortgage business is owned by the customers themselves. I don't want to put them at unnecessary risk. It would be quite ridiculous to bring financial instability into the system by saying that now they just have to take on a lot of risky projects. So I believe that I am demanding in my banking legislation and in my financial legislation at all that the way in which money is borrowed must be sustainable. This is what we have endeavoured to do very, very thoroughly on top of the financial crisis. So I think that is actually kept to the letter all the way through. That is why I am actually making a number of demands in this direction. Yes, we have examined the Norwegian scheme. It is not, in fact, specifically directed towards housing, but more towards study accommodation and other things, so it is not something that can be directly transferred to it. I do not think that there is any reason why we should start making state funding here. In fact, I think it would be a good idea for the market to find out for itself, and I think the market can do that too. I am actually aware that, after the financial crisis, the mortgage, for example, has expanded their loans quite considerably. We are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars, and it has also benefited the outermost regions. So much suggests that it actually works quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103809	Sir. Lars Dohn? Not anymore. Then I say thank you to the Minister, and then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211103834	Thank you for that, President. B 33 is about the fact that the Socialist People's Party will set up a special mortgage institution which can operate either on market conditions with a higher interest rate or be supported by the State in the form of either a deficit cover or a state subsidy. I regret that I am smiling a little, but it is a bit funny that the SF is making such a proposal. It is for a number of reasons. Firstly, the SF has not appeared in the Chamber when we have discussed financing challenges for rural areas in the past, nor have we seen in committee work when we have discussed financing challenges in rural areas. Secondly, among these proposals, the SF puts forward an idea of a state subsidy, which, fortunately, our competition rules do not allow, which is why parts of the resolution cannot be done at all. Thirdly, during this parliamentary term, the SF has in fact just voted against a loan scheme which offered loans to certain industries in rural areas and in which a risk contribution was paid which made it self-financing. That is why they have just voted against parts of their own resolution. Therefore, it may well be that we bourgeois should table that proposal again, as the SF has apparently changed its position on that front. And I do not think that the SF is interested in achieving real results with this motion for a resolution, as it would then have been a little bit involved before it was tabled. One might say that the Left is concerned with the intention of the proposal, namely to ensure better conditions for loans in rural areas. That is why, unlike the SF, we have entered into the interpolitical work with the parties of the Folketing, where we have just launched a working committee to make recommendations to the Folketing in this area. Among other things: We need to look at the six-month rule, which is grotesque in the sense that financing is provided on the basis of a 6-month lay-off period, when the average length is closer to about one year. We also need to look at the indicative amounts available from the borrowers. It's not very indicative when lenders get comments from the FSA if they don't comply with these guidelines. One has to look at whether there is legislation that limits lending and much, much else. We support this, and we look forward to seeing the results of that. I would very much like to deal with all the proposals seriously. However, it says a little about the seriousness of this proposal that, firstly, the proposer has not discovered that this working group has set in motion almost all parties have been behind it, except the SF, secondly, that parts of the proposal cannot be done because of our competition rules, and thirdly, that the SF has almost just voted against parts of their own resolution. The Left cannot, of course, support this kind of nonsense, but we are very much looking forward to the inter-political work of the Committee on Rural Loan Options. I can inform you that if in future SF will just show up for some of these meetings, I would also recommend that SF join the work on an equal footing with the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104207	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104209	I think we should refrain from being polemical. Now it is so small a party that one cannot be present everywhere, and I have other meetings at the time of the committee meeting, but I have actually been in contact with the chairman of the committee on this. I was on Monday. So it's not that I didn't do anything. I think there are quite a lot of other Leftmen who support this. Hans Christian Schmidt has actually been out to say that state-guaranteed loans are just one of the things we need. He has even proposed this himself. So what is the specific proposal of the Left? As I understand it, 6 months' rest time is completely subordinate to this issue. Even if it were 1 year, the challenge would be that these houses are located in some places where the rate of turnover is incredibly low, and this will affect the possibilities of obtaining loans. It will have no meaning whatsoever. So why is it that the Left continues out of a path that does not provide a solution for the people who are stabbed in their houses around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104318	I don't think there are any parties more concerned with this than the Left. I just want to say that the six-month rule cannot be ignored and said that it does not matter. It has. It has it both for valuation, turnover and loan options. With regard to what the Left wants, I would say that it is not the policy of the Left to make state-funded loans, because it goes without saying that we must not. What has been proposed by the Left, and which I also mention, and which the SF has just voted down during this parliamentary term, is loans for certain industries in rural areas. You give a state guarantee against being self-financing. There is a significant difference. That's not what the SF is proposing in this proposal. We have a number of good experiences, for example. the relocation of state jobs. We have relocated SKAT, the digital registration, the Danish Security Agency, the environmental centres etc. Unfortunately, the SF itself has also been involved in, and even led, the centralisation of several of these jobs, and this is one of the points made by those who provide mortgage loans and finance properties in rural areas. You say that the main prerequisite for us to offer loans in rural areas is whether or not we believe that some people will move out there. If the state takes the lead and depopulated those areas, it goes without saying that it makes it difficult to obtain loans. This is among other things. some of the roads we'd like to go. As far as lending is concerned, it is now a question of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands in the Folketing setting up a working committee to make recommendations and assess whether we are making legislation in this area which restricts the lending opportunities of financial institutions and mortgage banks. We can see that we do so in some ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104455	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104457	I just want to know whether you agree or disagree with Carl Holst and Hans Christian Schmidt, who said that state-guaranteed loans are the way forward. He has even proposed it himself. Do you disagree with several Left Mayors in South and South Jutland at this point? I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104519	I would like to repeat my answer. The Left has had a proposal that SF might be confused with its own proposal to grant loans. We are not in favour of this in the Left. But yes, we have had proposals in the Chamber about state-guaranteed loans, against their self-financing. That is an important difference. We have done so for agriculture; we have done so for fisheries. It is possible that SF has come to be confused, but of course the Left is not in favour of us going against our competition rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104554	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104558	I'm just gonna go back to that track with that committee that was set up on Tuesday. It's a little fast. It certainly says that it is a fast-working committee which must come up with proposals for solutions for this whole problem, but which do not include state funding. I can't quite understand what the Left means. Is it direct state funding that is excluded from the committee's work, or does it also include a state guarantee? After all, State guarantee is also a form of state financing, since the guarantee triggers a payout when the loans are defaulted and then the State is involved. So I cannot quite understand what has happened to this committee, and I also think that the reports from the Left are a little confusing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104653	I understand that the rapporteur finds it confusing if he cannot tell the difference between state subsidies and state guarantees. There is a significant difference. A State guarantee can be offered if one intends to do so, and one can do so because it is a self-financing scheme for which one then goes in and provides a guarantee. State subsidies do not allow the EU's competition rules, so that is not something we need to discuss in the Chamber. I know there are some who are inspired by Norway, but Norway has exactly the advantage in this area that it may not care about it. We have asked a committee to make some recommendations on what we in Parliament can do to ensure better lending opportunities. It is possible that they will, among them, propose some form of scheme involving a State guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104740	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104743	I recognise, of course, that if you are a supporter of the European Union and so on. etc., one is, of course, hard on that point of view. We are some who do not take that much into account, and if you think that in Denmark you want to build a scheme for the Norwegian, I think we should do it. That is quite right, I understand that the Left can help to ensure that the State guarantees that the private lenders are in fact banks or credit associations in such a way that they do not risk anything if they leave it to the State to guarantee loans which may be defaulted on. It is basically also some form of subsidy. It may well be that in EU law it is not understood that way, but at least it is holding hands under the private lending institutions in this area, and I understand that is the line of the Left, and you do not want any other line.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104837	Mr. Henning Hyllested completely misunderstood. But first of all, if you do not take into account reality, you may well have Mr. Henning Hyllested's position that we can simply propose the legislative proposals we want down here, whether they are contrary to our competition rules or otherwise, but we are certain serious parties that have to take that into account. And of course we do. We in the Left are not talking about granting a state guarantee to mortgage institutions. We in the Left are not talking about granting a state guarantee to the banks. We have had occasion to propose well-functioning state guarantees, which have actually run until this government decided that it will not be supported in the future. They were State guarantees for agriculture and fisheries; they were generational loans. This is an area in which we are so supportive of rural businesses and we are very interested that we go in and look at the state guarantee there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104929	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211104936	Thank you. After all, it is always nice to be able to discuss and debate rural policy, so it is also very good that today we are dealing with several resolutions in the area proposed by the SF. So thank you for that. Basically, it is very important for the Social Democratic Party that we strike a balance in Denmark. It's a challenge that won't be solved with a snap. From day one of the government offices, we have been working on the long tough move for the future of rural areas. With the proposal presented today by the SF, they want to help growth in the outermost regions by ensuring more loan opportunities for residential trade in these areas. As such, it is a sympathetic project. We have to recognise that there are certain areas in Denmark where it is very difficult to borrow money for house purchase. This is especially true of the very cheap houses. This may seem rather inappropriate, especially because many of the families who move to the countryside are precisely buying a house that has an affordable price. So I agree with the diagnosis of the proposers, but I do not share SF's view of what is the right medicine. In fact, it is proposed that it should be easier to access loans to owner-occupied housing or commercial property in the outermost regions by establishing a State mortgage institution. There are a number of factors which make the Social Democrats very concerned about such a solution. Firstly, we do not want to jeopardise the credibility of the Danish mortgage system. There is today an extremely high level of confidence and therefore very low interest rates. Secondly, the creation of a State rating company will be a costly and very uncertain affair, partly because the State has no experience in this field and partly because the properties that will need to be mortgaged are the most uncertain in the market with the greatest risk of loss. Thirdly, it can be added, and it has already been mentioned, that the creation of a State mortgage institution can be a serious distortion of competition and thus contrary to the EU rules on State aid. All in all, social democracy does not believe that it is the role of the state to be a mortgage institution. I believe that we must do everything we can to create growth and jobs in rural areas. In this way, it can also be easier to have access to credit. But it has to be in that order. Political action is needed to ensure rural areas, and this is something that is a major concern of the social democracy and the government. But this proposal will be to gamble with the funds in the common fund, and there is no need for that. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Hjermind Dencker as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105238	The proposal here is to set up a mortgage institution for loans for owner-occupied housing and commercial property in the outermost regions. The issue which the Socialist People's Party wishes to highlight with the proposal is extremely relevant. In the Rural Committee we are presented with a great many cases where people who live out there, where it is most beautiful and most peaceful, cannot borrow money for housing or commercial property, despite the fact that they actually have a valid economy. We politicians need to solve this problem. And since the FSA and the mortgage banks and the citizens who live in the areas seem to have three different experiences of what is up and down in this matter, we agreed in the Rural Committee that we would simply put all the parties together for a hearing where they could meet and where they could come up with joint proposals on how to solve that problem. We also agreed in the Rural Committee that on the basis of what came out of that consultation, we would go further in the process and together find out how we went further. In view of the fact that this was the process that a united Rural Committee decided to follow, it may well be surprising that the SF suddenly presented in the press a proposal for the establishment of a mortgage institute a few days before we even had to have that hearing. But then I thought that maybe it's not that weird. Because in order to be able to agree with the rest of the Rural Committee, in order to follow a process, it obviously requires that you show up at rural meetings. This requires participation in the day-to-day work of the Rural Committee. And we still have the merit of seeing Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who I believe is the rural rapporteur of the SF, in committee. As they say, blind hen also finds a grain. When a parliamentary election approaches, it is nice to see that even the SF begins to care about rural areas and islands. We can only welcome this in the rest of the committee. And should Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt be interested in dealing with rural policy in addition, of course, to making a couple of mediastunts up for a parliamentary election then I can inform you that we in the committee actually have a composition of people who sincerely, from the heart, are passionate about rural areas and the islands. And because all of us, regardless of party colour, are passionate about rural areas and the islands, we also agree on a great many things in committee. We were also in agreement with the Rural Committee, which decided that we would now write a report calling on the government to set up a working group which will have to make various suggestions on how to remedy the problem. It can, for example, be done. be mortgage-backed solutions. It may be to look more relaxed on the rules that the house should be translatable within 6 months. So we are a unanimous committee in the process of finding solutions in this area. And in the Danish People's Party, we would like to have a thorough look at what opportunities there are to combat the distortions in rural areas. That is why we support the report which the committee is preparing. Another important point to make here is, in fact, that the worst thing we can do at all to rural areas is to give them special conditions, such as. These special loans. The Minister also explained this very well in his speech, namely that one might actually blacklist some areas where they cannot obtain loans under normal conditions. You can risk putting people in a situation where it's called out in the population: Well, you're the ones underneath these loans. If there are two houses on a road that get these loans, then it quickly becomes a certain area, a village, and it might look really ugly. And that is not what those who live in rural areas want. That is why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105651	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105701	I have to ask Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker about this particular committee, which was set up on Tuesday at the Committee on Rural Development and the Isles Committee, because it says that proposals should be made for solutions which do not include state funding. So I would like to hear: what is in it? Well, what are the options? I had the impression that the consensus we have had so far in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands includes, after all, that all opportunities are open, that all opportunities can be put on the table if we otherwise consider it a social task to try to support both settlement and economic development in rural areas. So I would like to know what Mrs Hjermind Dencker's view is of the committee we are about to set up. Are you closing the door to some options, or are all options still open?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105804	We agreed, of course, that it should not be state funding, and it was a pity that Enhedslisten was not at that committee meeting, because the Enhedslisten usually appears in committee every time. So it was a little too bad that we didn't also bring Enhedslisten into that work there. But in any case, it is true that we do not want state funding. Sir. Thomas Danielsen from the Left has explained very well that this does not rule out the State guarantee on loans. But we simply agreed on that. We agreed to come up with various problems, which we discussed in committee, namely this one with pledges and with the six-month rule, with the transferability, with the amount of available funds and all those things, so we would have liked to clarify all these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105850	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105852	If I'm supposed to understand it that way, for example. the Norwegian option, which I believe Mrs Hjermind Dencker has previously expressed a certain understanding of, but correct me if I am wrong about the exclusion, or the suggestion, which is also from the SF now, about a state, as I understand at least, credit company, is an option which is excluded in Mrs Hjermind Dencker's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105920	Yes, they are very much, and I have never been for it when Enhedslisten has proposed those Norwegian mortgage loans. That's what Mr. Henning Hyllested may have misunderstood the Norwegian model, is that Dansk Folkeparti has been advocating that we should draw inspiration from the Norwegian model, in relation to how they treat the outermost regions, but it has not just been in connection with the state loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105946	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105948	I just need to know if the Danish People's Party itself believes that if the state does not interfere in this, there will be better lending opportunities in the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211105959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110000	I can promise that the state will interfere in this, but the way in which the state must interfere is just starting to place jobs in the outermost regions. That's where we take the lead. If we take the lead on the part of the Danish Parliament and decide that there should be more state jobs in the province we have 180,000 government jobs in Denmark, and the 80,000 are in the Capital Region, so we have a huge task of moving the state jobs out so lure me if there are not some mortgage institutions who think that it is a good idea to also borrow money out there when moving people to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110039	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110041	I just need to know if I heard right. So state jobs and their relocation are the solution to the problems people have with obtaining mortgages in the outermost regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110053	State jobs are an important, a large part of it because it is the case that when you move more state jobs into the province, jobs generate more jobs. Where there is a tax centre, there are some who can see a good idea in looking up a café or a hair salon next door. So, of course, it's part of the challenge, but it's along with a lot of other things, along with mobile coverage, along with better public transport, there's a lot of other things. So there are quite a number of challenges that we need to address in rural areas. That's why we can't just say that this loan thing comes first. It is important that we first get it going out there, and it is a state task that we want to help solve, also with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110140	Sir. Lars Dohn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110144	Just for the record, I have been a little in doubt, and that is why I am asking, namely to get smarter. It has been completely rejected that the state should be a participant in this process, so I understand what has been said so far. But I am in doubt, because does the Danish People's Party believe that state-guaranteed loans are excluded or is that an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110208	Well, the Danish People's Party still thinks this is an option, so that we can hold our hands under the mortgage banks in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110216	Sir. Lars Dohn? Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110226	Thank you, President. The SF has come up with a sympathetic motion, I would also call it, for a resolution to strengthen the lending opportunities for those people and companies who cannot obtain a loan in the outermost regions. SF proposes that this should be done, as we have also heard several times, by setting up a special mortgage institution which can either operate under market conditions with a higher interest rate or supported by the State in the form of either a certain deficit coverage or interest rate subsidies. This is one of the proposals of the SF for strengthening the outermost regions. I am not going to be wise about what the motives are for making the proposals; the SF knows that best for itself. However, the Radical Left is both genuinely interested and concerned about the opportunities we have for living and working in all parts of our country. We are genuinely interested that it is possible to settle where you like or where the economy allows it, and we are also genuinely interested in our entrepreneurs being able to open up businesses in all parts of the country, including our rural areas. We are genuinely interested in the fact that already existing healthy businesses can expand in the countryside when it is needed. We recognise that the development of the country's depopulation and the search for major cities has, for various reasons, had several unfortunate consequences over the years, and that is among other things. This is why we are discussing this problem today, namely that in certain areas of the country it is difficult to borrow both for private homes and for business. But no matter how sympathetic the aim of the proposal may be, in the opinion of the Radical Left, this is not the solution to a new government mortgage credit institution which operates on terms other than those we know. Firstly, we do not want to discriminate against the Danes wherever they live. We must all be able to walk through the same door when we need loans for housing and business. We don't want an institute for second-class citizens. Secondly, as the Minister put it, we believe that it would be far too costly and extremely cumbersome to build up the competences required in the field of credit rating and valuation under a state regime. Thirdly, we also agree that having a State institute which can grant loans on terms other than those we normally see would be a serious distortion of competition. We recognise, as I have said, that the problem exists, but we would much rather solve the problem within the existing mortgage credit system. Of course, other things also need to be done to increase rural development opportunities in general. We are therefore also very pleased that the Minister would like to delve into the problem a little further and has agreed that if you know of cases that could illustrate the problem, the Minister will look at them. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the SF motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110519	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mr Lars Dohn as rapporteur. Is Mr. Mr Lars Dohn, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten? It is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who has the floor now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211110559	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, a very pressure sensitive screen, and I was once given the floor without really wanting it, so that is what I was a little nervous about having happened again. I would like to start by thanking the SF for this resolution, because something needs to be done in this area of funding. The proposal that comes later from the SF depends on whether something is happening in the area of funding, because what are we going to do with plans if it is not possible to get it going out there in the countryside? We know from studies that there are many more people who want to live in the countryside than those who live there now, so it is therefore our job as politicians to create a framework so that we can get people to move to where they want to live. We also know that there are a number of people who can be loan-approved, but the mortgage banks in their current form will not always lend out. And then everything stops, life stops out there, and that's what's really happened. After all, the Housing Committee has held two hearings on this issue, and I do not know whether the Minister for Industry is still of the opinion that there are no problems. Now we have a promise that we will now try to follow up the situation. That's how little it's won. The committee has decided to set up a committee to look at funding, but no state financial solutions will be included. For the Enhedslisten it seems a little strange, because otherwise we thought we had an agreement with the Left that a broad committee should be set up to look at all the possibilities, but things can change that way. Perhaps it would be nice if we could be informed that an agreement no longer exists. So Enhedslisten has long since announced that this problem needs to be resolved by the fact that, when market functions do not work, society must go in and secure loan opportunities in the country. This can be done by the fact that the State, which is already involved in financial stability, which has lending institutions, which will also be able to assess mortgage and loan, including assessing loan situations at all, goes into it. If you look at the Danish history, it is also the case that you will see that in those cases where something has happened in the country, it is the Danish state, the Danish society, that has been out there. The State House Movement, the workers' homes after the Second World War are the two things that have moved the most out there in the countryside and created good working and living conditions, so society has to get back on track. If we look around, we can see that in Norway it is the case that you have a house bank that not only lends out for mortgage loans, but in other ways ensures that life in the country can take place. In Iceland, too, there is a house finance fund. This means that we should not look very far away until we can see that it is the social solutions that make a difference. What the SF is proposing is so special I do not think there is anywhere to be a government What we have to say about the proposal is that if it is to be on market conditions, then it will just be with an extra high interest rate, and then it will be just an extra tax on living in the countryside. As far as the latter is concerned, in other words a state regime, this is the solution which the Enhedslisten would be much better able to support. So if we are to conclude, we have to say that the SF's proposal is a very loose and very, very broad one, which is probably torpedoed by the consensus between the bourgeois and the government on a solution that does not include state involvement. The Enhedslisten regards SF's proposals as a step forward: that something will be done at all and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111053	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It's done. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111103	Thank you. This is an important area which is being shed light on with this draft parliamentary resolution. The solution is just wrong. It is quite right to pay particular attention to the fact that there are difficulties in this area. There is a distortion of Denmark, and there is a shift from country to city, which makes the possibility of financing housing, industry, etc. has been made more difficult in recent years. The problem is therefore real enough and we have had a number of opportunities to shed light on it in the rural context of consultations, conferences, meetings, etc., and it is very good to continue with it in order to influence so that we find solutions. However, we have a good mortgage system in Denmark, which must deliberately ensure that its money is secured as far as possible, because it is all our money that is talked about. And I guess none of us here would be interested in someone taking unnecessary risks and then losing some of our money. So it is clear that that system cannot solve all questions by itself when it comes to value. I would therefore like to point out that what has happened in recent years is that the mortgage market, which was part of the housekeepers, if we look at it historically, has largely been removed. It is because at some point the banks actually took over that exercise because there was good money to earn. Now the banks are in a situation where they are at least very reluctant and perhaps want to make the same assessment as the mortgage. The difference with such a mortgage market was that it was the seller who left an amount in the property, and then it was not a question of whether one dared to invest in that property, for it had done so. And the opportunity is there to help a buyer on the way or young people on the way, so that the credit associations can give a mortgage that is relatively secure, a smaller mortgage, a first-pant, and then there is someone who may know the buyer and has looked him deeply in the eye and wants to sell, and who can then help that trade get started. And we have also heard from some of the cases that will be presented at the hearing that it actually became such a solution that solved a case that had gone into a stalemate. The question is: and it is then considered by the government whether one could help it along the way by perhaps giving special tax treatment to those who take the risk, rather than thinking this idea of a state institution that is going to grant special loans. So I think it could be said here from the platform for friendly consideration, perhaps helping to set off a market that could thaw the frozen state that is in this area. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111402	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there is no Conservative rapporteur present, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the rapporteur for the proposers, is from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111419	I would like to thank you for the debate. I understand that there is a lot of anger about the SF's proposal. We all recognise the problem, but it is too brazen that the SF has proposed to do something about the situation that we are experiencing in our outermost regions in these years. I can say so much that this is not a teasing proposal. This is simply because I come from an area where this is very close to reality. It is simply going on just outside my front door, and of course it is something that I, as SFs, am concerned with, for me this is an equality agenda. It is about having equal access, no matter where you live in the country, to the same opportunities, and so you do not have that when someone cannot get a mortgage. I believe that at the hearing we were able to prove that there is indeed a problem, because in the very short time it has been in existence, UdenomBanken.dk has actually experienced granting loans in cases where the mortgage fails. Nor do I believe that the solution is to impose more unsafe loans on the mortgage, because we need to have confidence that what is happening there is sensible. That is also what gives the low interest rates. But we must respond to the fact that there are people who will be tied up in their houses, and that is an insecure situation. We must respond to the fact that jobs will not be created because companies will not be able to invest or to build new ones. Once jobs disappear from our outlying areas, they eat on tax revenues, and then they eat on welfare, and then the vicious circle has started. The Norwegian scheme has been mentioned a few times here today. I think it is a very interesting arrangement which we should look into in more detail. At least I know that there are Left Mayors in South Jutland who are very, very concerned about this agenda, and there is probably a gap in relation to what you think of Christiansborg from the Left. I think it is very good that a committee has been set up in the Rural Committee. I had a conversation with the chairman of the committee on Monday because I knew I could not show up on Tuesday and I said that I was prepared to find a majority for anything that brings this discussion forward. And I am because I am really concerned that our outermost regions do not continue in an evil spiral. I just do not think that what has been chosen by the committee, namely to look at 6 months of recuperation and availability, is the right medicine. I do not think that solves the problem, because once the last bus has left, when the neighbouring house is a dilapidated row, and when, by the way, no one lives in all the other houses around, a mortgage institute will take stock of what it looks like in 20 years' time, and if this accommodation can then be resold. And it probably can't, or at least it can turn out to be really, really difficult. So whether the bedtime is 6 months, 1 year or 2 years, I do not think it makes much difference, and the Realkredit Council has largely confirmed this to me. There is already a mortgage credit institution which has received remarks about having a slightly too loose portfolio, so I simply do not think that we will solve this in the usual mortgage credit system. There is simply a different arrangement to be applied. However, I am glad that the SF's proposal has pushed for a committee to be set up, because it has certainly been a long time in the process to look at this issue. So something good has come out of SF's proposal, and I think that, as the challenges for our outermost regions deteriorate, the time will ripen for us to have to look at something where the state is a co-player in one degree or another in order to solve this knot.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111825	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211111829	It is clear from the fact that the rapporteur's ignorance in this area reflects the fact that the many study trips which the committee has otherwise undertaken to investigate these matters have not been taken on board. But of course it cannot be expected either, since you have not been there. But I would like to know whether we can expect now, when the rapporteur stands and tells us how important an agenda this is for SF, that SF will follow this matter to the end; that means showing up for committee work for perhaps just one meeting, given that it is so important. Or isn't it something that the SF will either give priority to one or the other rapporteur? Finally, I just have to say that if we make a state loan scheme as a counterpart to mortgage institutions or other forms of lending, it will be a garbage bin company. We can call it a state bank for housing with a particularly attractive and nice view, or whatever we want, but it will be a garbage bin bank or bank, which everyone will fear to enter, because if one gets a loan from such a bank or a garbage bin company, it means in the future that when the banks in the private and free market are going to borrow, they will have to settle for that property and say: Whoa, in the area where it is located, you use the trash bin company, and therefore you must also have this expensive way of borrowing; you cannot just borrow on equal terms with the rest of the country. In this way, we are making a distortion between the country and the city, and that is not what the rural committee intends to do. I would like to ask the rapporteur, given that the rapporteur is so concerned about this: will the SF go in and look at the legislative proposals we are making about banks and mortgage banks so that we do not continue to tighten up on them? That is what ultimately results in borrowing less and less, and that is where the rural areas are first and foremost affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112032	Now I have only been rapporteur in this area just under two months, so it has been difficult for me to participate in all kinds of study trips that have preceded this. Do I turn up for committee work in the future? I cannot promise that because it is at the same time as group meetings and group board meetings, and on Tuesday I was in the Ministry of Justice. That is the challenge of being a small party. However, I can promise the rapporteur of the Left that the SF is pursuing this matter, because I consider it essential that there be solutions. With regard to the imbalance between the country and the city, it is already well under way and has deteriorated considerably in recent years. I sincerely fear that, if we do not intervene, there will be more problems. Nor do I believe that the solution is to make fewer demands on our financial institutions and on our mortgage institutions, in the sense that I do not think we should face a financial crisis again. I do not think we should see all sorts of inappropriate bubbles occurring. That is why I believe that the solution must be found in a different system than in the ordinary system. And we can just get to Norway and see that there is something that works, and so this can be done. It is just the political will that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112156	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112159	I must sadly say to the SF that it is unfortunately not to the credit of the SF that this intergroup in committee is being set up. It was planned long before the SF suddenly came this a little funny resolution. However, the rapporteur constantly mentions the Norwegian model. Could it not be that one could have taken the trouble before making this proposal to refer to the way Norway is doing things, that is, that one had looked at whether Norway was part of the European Union or whether they had the same competition rules as we do? It may be that you do not need to look at the reality of a party such as the SF, but it would, of course, strengthen the legislative process if the proposals put forward were to be dealt with just a little seriously, so that we knew beforehand that at least half of the legislative proposal had been on the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112246	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112249	I think that the Left's anger in this connection is due to the fact that the Left has no good idea how to solve this. You will continue out of some path where it most likely does not come to a solution where it ends in nothing. I don't think you want to make a solution, especially before a parliamentary election. In fact, we have tried to make our resolution so resolved and so openly that we could have a discussion on how we could work together to reach a political solution. The most important thing for me was not how the solution was put together; it was just that we could agree that here is a problem that we politically have a responsibility to solve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112325	Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112330	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt mentioned that this had apparently been a long process. It has been because we in the Rural Committee have a tradition of examining matters in depth, so that we have a large frame of reference. We've been out visiting a lot of small islands, a lot of the larger islands, we've been out visiting a lot of rural areas, so we've got a broad frame of reference pointing to the same problem, which is precisely the one with the transposition in the six months. This is one of the things we have experienced, just as it seems that the FSA is setting a framework for the amount available, which is quite unreasonable and completely out of line with reality. So we have gained that knowledge by being present, by participating in committee trips. Now that the SF seems to be voting down on this proposal, could the SF be in favour of joining this report, so that we set up a committee to examine these things and come up with some concrete solutions on how to lift these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112442	Well, I already told sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, on Monday, that we support anything that can drive this in a direction that will ensure that our outermost regions are not further denied. So, yes, I'd like to do that on Monday, and I'd still like to go. I think it is important that we look at some solutions. I am just saying that I do not believe that the solution is found by looking at the amount of availability and the six months, because there will still be the specific problem that these houses are in some areas that are not very attractive. That problem will worsen over the next few years as these areas are further depopulated, but I am open to looking at it. I'm still gone. I'm just saying that I think that as time matures, we're going to discuss whether or not the state should be a co-player. I think it would then have been most fair to say that you do not cut anyone off in advance when looking at solutions. We can always say, when the analysis is available, that this is not the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112539	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112542	Well, it's nice to hear that SF is on this one. When SF says you shouldn't cut anyone off, it's about doing it with these government-funded loans, so we've gotten into something that we can't figure out ourselves. I would certainly be glad if the SF, who is putting forward the proposal, had a suggestion as to how we could go in and cover the state-funded loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112610	Yeah, but maybe it shouldn't be about what DF's rapporteur in this area can manage. Maybe we should do an analysis where we look at all the models that are open-minded. But that is not what you want to do with your committee work. What I am just saying is: let us do the analysis first, then we can always decide on it afterwards, and then see whether Mrs Hjermind Dencker can understand the solutions that lie there or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112636	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112640	Thank you. It has been said by Mrs Karina Lorentzen that the SF wants a dialogue and that they have not made this proposal as a teasing proposal, and I certainly do not think you do either. The Radical Left is also in favour of a serious dialogue, and although you are a small party and you have a little difficulty in reaching all the meetings, I would nevertheless suggest that you come to the committee and give it priority when it is very close to heart. We're also struggling to make it all, but we're giving this a very high priority. So I would also like us to invite SF with us when we set up this working group, and so we look at the whole palette. Of course, it is not just financing and lending that is the problem in rural areas, it is also about jobs that come from the fact that a company can borrow for it, it is about places of education and so on. etc. So there is, of course, a great palette of measures to help the development of the outermost regions get under way. I would just like to urge that we work together on this and that we put aside all possible teasing. That's my call.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112758	I think that sounds like a really workable proposal, and we also have proposals in the SF to put in place a plan of action for the outermost regions; that is the next proposal we will have to deal with, and I hope there will be support for it. But I do not know whether I heard correctly, namely that the radical rapporteur opens up the possibility of looking at all the solutions in committee, because I think that would be a really, really workable proposal, and that would certainly mean that Enhedslisten and SF would be accepted in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112829	Mrs. Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112832	No, we're not gonna open that up. We have just been discussing for and against in committee, and I would say that the Radical Left also does not support some form of state institute for the reasons I myself mentioned in the rapporteur's speech and as Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left also explained a little. We want there to be one door for all Danes to walk in. We should not have an "A" and a "B" team where some are going to an institute where you might already be looked at with a little different eyes, because you do not have the same options, or because the Institute does not think you have the same options. So we do not think that option is particularly feasible also because it is very expensive and because, when you mention Husbanken, we do not have the conditions that exist in Norway. We would rather that we actually look at some solutions within the mortgage system that we already have, because we will not undermine our good system on that front. So we don't open the door to that. But I just think there are a lot of other options, and that is what we are doing, among other things. has revealed at committee meetings that there are so many other things that we can look at within the existing system, and we can look at whether there is anything in our own legislation that tightens. But just this option, we don't think it's sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211112958	Well, I just have to say that I think it is really, really a pity that some options are already being cut off in the analysis part. I think we should look at everyone openly and without prejudice, and when we have the results, we can decide whether we think it should not be an option. But I think it is foolish to say in advance that there is something here that we will not at all investigate if it can be an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211113021	Then no one else has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. The debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211113041	The debate is open. Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211113101	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. With the proposal, the SF calls on the government to draw up an action plan with initiatives that will improve the framework conditions for the country's outermost regions, rural areas and islands, as well as a better balance between the country and the city. I would like to start by saying that I actually think it is always positive that parties across the political spectrum show a great interest in creating a better cohesive society. On the part of the government, our position is clear and it has been clear from day one: we want a coherent country now, but also in the future. I think that the list of initiatives we have made to ensure a better coherence is long and impressive. This is far from the first time I have referred to the many initiatives, but nevertheless I think I would like to take this opportunity to refer and draw attention to some selected areas. Together with a broad majority, we have adjusted the compensation system, which, after all, gave a lasting boost in terms of redistributing some 400 million. kr. from the major cities to municipalities with rural challenges. It is because of a recognition that there has been a shift in social pressure, and I must promise that it caused trouble in the larger cities, but, on the other hand, rural areas thought well that they could have spent a little more money. But the truth is that this is the first time this has happened in many, many years that we have actually changed the compensation scheme for the benefit of our rural areas. As part of the 2014 growth package, there is also agreement to increase the number of municipalities in which an increased transport allowance can be granted, and this helps to improve commuters with a long daily transport between island regions. We have actually gone from 12 municipalities to 25 municipalities. That is part of the framework. We have also implemented a change in the planning law with a rural clause, moreover, while the SF had a minister in the area where we said that in relation to remaining buildings in municipalities with a decline in employment and settlement, the rural provision can therefore be used. I believe that Carsten Abild, President of the Villages of Denmark, said that this is the first time in more than 40 years that there has been a change in favour of rural areas in the planning law. In addition, we have agreed that a number of pilot projects can now be carried out in rural areas in relation to supporting the tourism part. We have launched, together with Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, when she was party leader and Minister for Growth and Industry, a very ambitious mobile issue with over 22 initiatives. We have come up with a new IT action plan, in fact on Monday, in which we support the need for better infrastructure in rural areas and which also takes care of, including in the new agreements to be made, for us to ensure that when we make new agreements it becomes the case that we have to take account of rural areas, just as we did when Mr. Ole Sohn was SFs by ensuring that the 207 worst covered postal numbers via the 800 MHz band actually got better mobile coverage. It's getting rolled out in the spring. It's an investment of 5-6 billion. kr. So we have been down to look at the framework conditions quite many times. While Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was Minister for Transport, we have booked 28.5 billion with a broad circle in the Folketing. kr. to Togfonden DK, to make a historical boost to the Danish rail traffic. The time model will provide faster and better rail connections across the country, also for the benefit of our rural areas. It means a great deal to rural and peripheral citizens that commuting distances to the largest centres of growth are reduced. I can say that in the city where I live with my accent, no one can be in any doubt that I live in Odense, there are actually 4,000-5000 people who commute to Copenhagen every morning, but stay in Odense and on Funen, so it means a lot. In addition, I would like to mention our growth plan for Danish tourism. This is the first time we have drawn up a comprehensive plan, an action plan to develop tourism. In fact, coastal tourism, which supports rural growth and development, employs 70 000 people throughout the year. It translates over 55 billion. kr. There is, of course, a great deal of focus here on developing coastal and natural tourism, which is equal to rural areas. In addition, we have together created the village renewal pool, where we followed up on the huge challenge that there are a number of empty houses in our rural areas. There are some who turn into ruins. If you add to the co-financing of the municipalities, this is, overall, a boost along with what we are doing with the urban renewal law, which we have just finished today, and where we have actually allocated special funds for area renewal, for urban renewal in rural areas, for 1.3 billion. kr. over a few years, so we've addressed this challenge with the framework conditions. We also make it that we make an annual statement to the Danish Parliament this is the first time that this has happened since there has been a Minister for Rural Development who highlights the development and situation of Danish rural areas and our outlying areas. Before my time as rural minister, a number of different statements were made in this area, but we have chosen to tighten it up, so that since 2012 a comprehensive account of rural areas and of our islands has been prepared, giving a coherent and clear picture. We have also made in the Ministry a new division of land and city for statistical purposes, but with the report we have got a much more accurate and much more nuanced picture of reality, not least those of the challenges that are facing our rural areas. There should of course be no doubt that rural areas and peripheral areas are facing very special challenges due to urbanisation and the general transformation that is in our society. This is particularly evident in a number of areas. I can mention physical and digital infrastructure that we have been through. We have often debated broadband in this Chamber. These are also the conditions in demographic development where you can say that it is really a little fun to think that Copenhagen and Aarhus are the youngest cities we have in Denmark. I think we made an inventory for a conference we held together with the Elders Case and the Rural Council here in the house, where we said that in Copenhagen there is only 10%. by citizens who are +65. In Aarhus it is 12.6 per cent, as far as I remember, and when you look beyond rural areas, you are in several places up to about 30 per cent. of the population, which is +65. So there are some challenges, no doubt about it, but there are also challenges when we talk about demographic development with so many people who are going to retire or something else in terms of the provision of welfare services. When we debate these challenges, I think it is crucial that we have the necessary knowledge about it, and I have to say that the SF's proposal for an action plan does indeed mean that we have to take some very, very expensive solutions, so I think it is wise that, together with our annual report, we might create a better basis for knowledge and a qualified basis for further debate. The next statement we expect to deliver in the second half of April 2015, and that statement can, of course, help in a number of areas to provide a knowledge base that can be the basis for the further and the good, constructive debate. Fortunately, we have made some progress in the development of rural areas and peripheral areas, and fortunately we also know much more. I believe that it is absolutely essential that we have sufficient knowledge in this area, because these are very complex issues. Urbanisation is not a moving movement towards the cities. It's a movement both ways. As Mr. Lars Dohn said during the previous debate that there are a lot of people who want to live in rural areas too. We know from a Tryg study that we did with Jørgen Goul Andersen from Aalborg University, where we had 5,000 respondents inside, that there are actually almost twice as many as those who live in rural areas who would like to move out there. The close access to nature, the network, the fact that you have close communities mean a great deal, and that is where we have also taken care of that part of it by trying to see if we could not use the flex housing, which we will have to deal with a bill later this year, where we now turn the flex housing into a form of housing, where the permit follows the home and not the person, and thus it is also easier to obtain funding for it. So we are actually trying to change three main areas. Firstly, as I have outlined, the overall framework conditions in which we regularly take the discussion, for example. The debate on the ferry, in which we recently made it reasonable to be an economic activity on our islands, knows that freight is now being paid over and that business on the mainland can be treated equally, the framework conditions that I have mentioned with equal treatment. In addition, we take specific steps to set up a scheme so that the empty houses can be torn down. We allocate them directly to the municipalities that have the challenges. We are resolving specific issues, as we have done with the flex housing, the rural provision, and in addition, I think that there is a huge task with what is called branding, namely to ensure that you talk nicely and properly about all parts of the country. It has to be said that what has been invented in the media with the conflicts over the rotten banana and social nomads and ruins etc. has not helped to burn our rural areas in a good way. So that's what we're working on. But I think it is absolutely crucial that we have sufficient knowledge of this area and, as I have said, the issues are very complex and cross-cutting. But to sum up, as the first government we have ever established a rural ministry. We are, as it were, mouthpieces into the government. We can feel it, too. When we work with the Rural Council, when we address the problems of the elderly and the rural areas, it is because we focus on it and have done so in good cooperation with several of the parties in the Folketing. We have cooperation, also good and proper, with our Rural Committee, and we have carried out a great many good initiatives, and all of this only succeeds because we have an ongoing background and attention to rural development, but also because we have knowledge of it. This is being done in the context of the political debate, which is also taking place in this Chamber, and I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for it today. In fact, I think that together we have got a fantastic focus on rural development and thus also changed focus. This is reflected both in finance law and growth packages and in concrete initiatives. In this context, however, I do not believe that we can agree with the motion for a resolution as it stands, but I agree that we need perhaps to learn more about a number of the areas that the authors of the motion for a resolution are pointing out today. So let us look forward to a further debate and see if we cannot find each other in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114143	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114205	Thank you for that, President. The SF has tabled a motion for a resolution to draw up an overall action plan with initiatives which will improve the framework conditions for the country's outermost regions and rural areas and create a better balance between the country and the city. I cannot answer what has happened, since SF has turned 180 degrees in this area too, but since 2012 there has been a broad civic desire for a comprehensive action plan with exactly this text, which is why we very much welcome the fact that SF has agreed to our proposal. Unfortunately, it is the SF which is at the same time responsible for the fact that it is only now that we have come so far in the parliamentary term and that we have not had it before, and that is, of course, a little paradoxical. As I said, it is at the eleventh hour of this parliamentary term, but of course the Left intends to support the SF proposal. We welcome the fact that the government has agreed to our wishes and, for example, to our wishes. have been accommodating to our requests for an increased transport allowance in rural municipalities, our tourism measures, as the rural minister has just explained, but we also have a desire to see a comprehensive action plan drawn up. There we have many wishes, among others. better funding opportunities in rural areas, in line with the debate we had during the previous resolutions. We also want the liberalisation of the law on plans to open up more growth and employment in rural areas, which is, of course, crucial for us to be able to develop them in a positive direction. We also want generational loans for agriculture and fisheries, which are some of the most important industries we have in rural areas and which mean a great deal out there; and we want the relocation of state jobs, according to several of the resolutions we have tabled, and take into account the financial bill that we have put forward. It is vital that the state believes in an area and does not centralise state jobs. During the VKO period we had very good experiences with the relocation of SKAT, the digital registration, the Danish Safety Authority, the environmental centres etc. Unfortunately, we have seen that several of the state jobs we have just relocated have been centralised. These are the measures that are needed. That and much more we would like to have included in such a plan. So, even though we are a little annoyed that the SF supports this idea of a comprehensive action plan so late in the election process, we are delighted that it can now become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114518	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114522	After all, it is good that there is something we can agree on. I should just like to ask when the Left has put forward a proposal for an action plan and what it then contained.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114543	We did so in collaboration with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on 11 January 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114553	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114556	But I asked what the proposal contained.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114603	There was exactly what the SF has now come to mind: the Danish Parliament therefore requires the government to take the initiative to draw up a comprehensive plan aimed at lifting outlying areas and islands in several areas, including traffic, education, occupation, health, housing, etc. So this is the same plan that the SF has now put forward and that we are pleased to be able to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114629	Sir. Lars Dohn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114632	I also remember the Left's proposal, but as I see it, there seems to be another twist in the content here. I do not believe that the proposals put forward by the Left were aimed at socio-economic companies, village communities, bio-economics and green growth in the outermost regions. This is certainly not something the Left practises anywhere, as far as I know. Then there isn't a huge difference in sight between this plan and the plan that the Left put forward in their aggressive tease period there in 2012, when everything was about teasing and not being constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114718	I do not quite understand what kind of teasing period the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is referring to. But the reason why the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives made exactly the proposal that has now been made by the SF was that the rural minister had stated at one of the first meetings that he wanted to present a comprehensive action plan, and the action plan we were looking for. And maybe you regretted that. I can't answer what happened, but we never got it. In relation to the content of the proposal for adoption which I have just read out, there is no difference at all. Of course, what has been aimed at the various parties is different, but I do not assume that a proposal has been made for adoption, which would cut off the input from green growth and what else we have in rural areas as positions of strength. That is indeed something that the Left also supports. We are very much in favour of the green transition in a sensible way. We are great advocates of specialist companies and much more. So I cannot quite understand where the rapporteur thinks the twist is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114834	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114837	I think there is a difference in content, and I cannot fail to note that earlier this day we adopted a legislative proposal that companies should now enter agriculture. I do not think it is in the SF's proposal here that we are going to degenerate agriculture at all. I believe that the words used here contain a completely different form of life creation and restoration in the countryside: peace, peace, etc. The fact that companies enter agriculture, I believe, is a cause of stress and anxiety.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211114918	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right in saying that we in the Left do not think that we should live as a farmer's ass in order to settle in rural areas. The Left believes that we must have modern rural areas that are attractive and can develop in a positive direction. It is a bit strange to hear the rapporteur's question, i.e. how much effort can be made to find a conflict between the two completely identical proposals: the proposal for adoption by the bourgeois wing, which I have just read out, and the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF and which we are debating today. There is no difference, but of course there is a difference between the priorities of the various parties. However, it does not make any difference whether it had been at our original proposal for adoption or it had been at SF's proposal. That part would have been exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115011	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115020	We are now dealing with another motion for a resolution on the outermost regions and rural areas of Denmark tabled by the Socialist People's Party. I should like to begin by stating that the social democracy is very much at the heart of the question of the outskirts. There are some very major changes in Danish society these years. More and more people are looking for cities, rural areas are being depopulated, and jobs are crawling together in certain parts of the country. It is a great challenge that requires political action, and it is a challenge that we in the Social Democratic Party take very seriously, because Denmark is and must be an equal country where the distance from top to bottom is small, where the primary school is the meeting place for children of both directors and hairdressers, and where you do not just live up and down people you look like on a dot. That equality and mobility is an objective for us Socialists. Therefore, it is also very important to pay attention to the risk of a distortion of Denmark. As the Minister has mentioned, the government has already initiated various initiatives, including while the SF was in government, aimed at strengthening rural and peripheral development. Together we have adjusted the municipal compensation, and with the "Growth Plan 2014" we have launched several initiatives that are directly targeted rural areas. It is, for example, in the form of upgrading the digital infrastructure, as it is so finely called. Having said that, there are, of course, still further challenges for rural areas, as we have just seen in the previous resolution that we have discussed in this Chamber today. These are challenges that require concrete and targeted initiatives. The government is constantly developing initiatives and solutions in this area, and in this work it is important to adapt the solutions to what is the right thing to do under the given circumstances. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Hjermind Dencker as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115239	It's a wonderful day today. It's a good day. It's a rather surprising day, but in the cool way. Because I can see that the SF today can see what they apparently did not see two years ago, namely that our lovely rural areas and islands need a boost, for help, for a concerted effort. Two years ago, the Danish People's Party raised a question in this Chamber, which specifically referred to the need for concerted action in rural areas and, together with the Left and the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, we put forward the proposal that Mr. Thomas Danielsen also mentioned where among others. The Danish Parliament therefore requires the government to take the initiative in drawing up a comprehensive plan aimed at lifting outlying areas and islands in several areas, including traffic, education, occupation, health, housing, etc. The SF voted against it. Then I admit that one can of course misunderstand it when I say that the SF voted against. It may be that some people are sitting out there thinking: okay, that is, when the SF voted against, it is because they were actually present in the Chamber and were debating this serious issue. But they weren't. The SF was the only party that did not take this issue seriously enough to want to run with a rapporteur in the Chamber. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that SF has changed its mind and yet we think that our proposal for a comprehensive action plan for rural and peripheral areas is a good idea. We are also pleased that the SF has appeared in this Chamber today to deal with this proposal, which they were hopelessly uninterested in two years ago. In the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned to give a boost to rural and peripheral areas, and it has to be said that we have already put our mark on the agenda, both by putting forward the proposal I have just mentioned and which the SF did not think was a good idea two years ago, but which they think is a good idea today, and also by including in the growth package, that there should be a price reduction on freight transport to the islands and that the beach protection line should be managed less rigidly. And, most recently, we also had the support of the whole parliament to set up a working group to find out what it will cost to introduce the so-called road model for the islands, which is that a total kilometer at sea should cost the same as a driven kilometer on the road. We have to recognise that there are plenty of challenges in rural areas that we have to face. We need more state jobs out there, we need better lending opportunities, we need better broadband, we need to remove the payment ring around our beautiful islands, we need to ensure that there are funds to tear down fallen houses, and then we need to make sure that there is better public transport, to name but some of the challenges we have to solve. So, yeah, let's make a joint action plan for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115550	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can also reach the radical rapporteur, Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115604	Thank you for that, President. The Radical Left, as I said earlier in connection with B 33, is also genuinely concerned with the development of our rural and peripheral regions. The government has, if any, highlighted the problem of a general shift from country to city by setting up a ministry with its main focus on urban, housing and rural policy. And when you look down on the overall list of measures, of which the Minister also mentioned some, to strengthen the framework conditions for rural areas and all the direct actions that are in relation to the same regions of the country, I am actually proud that this government takes the matter so seriously. It will go too far to mention all the measures, and I think that most of the parties are familiar with them, but the fact that both the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Food, the Ministry of Business and Growth, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, the Ministry of City, Housing and Rural Affairs have taken action bears witness to the wide range and scale of this problem. The Radical Left, fortunately, like most people in this Chamber, wants a diverse Denmark where life can be lived anywhere. It is about people who must have the opportunity to live, train and work everywhere. Again: we think that this is a positive and sympathetic proposal that the SF has put forward, and we are also genuinely concerned about the problem and looking at measures to counter it. That is why we would also like to look at the possibility of collecting, across ministries, more knowledge of how we approach it all in an overall strategy for the outermost regions in the future. But the Radical Left cannot support the specific motion for a resolution in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211115753	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00 with Enhedslisten's rapporteur as the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130016	The sitting is resumed. We are dealing with the first reading of motion for a resolution No. B 17, and we have come so far in the list of speakers that the first one here after the break is Mr. Lars Dohn of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130031	Thank you. I do not know whether it is the President or the High President in this case, but at least thank you for the floor. I would actually like to start by nuanced on this issue of our rural areas a little. It is true, as was mentioned this morning, that during the study trips we actually see that in many places there is a great deal of work going on. The study trip to Jammerbugt was the one that made me happier. To see social economic companies grow up, to see that, despite the fact that everything did not look too bright, it managed to create a store like a social economic company with three people who would otherwise find it difficult to enter the labour market, to get businesses and other things to grow and grow, to get people's houses in abandoned schools to function properly, very well, shows that a lot of places have discovered that if you do not do something, you know how things will develop. So it's a big mix. But what is crucial is that we, as Parliament, must ensure that it can be financed, because without funding there is not really anything that will succeed. The Left's favorite slogan in this debate has always been: the government does nothing. We have just heard the Minister review at least ten major areas of action almost for me to note them down. So some things have actually been done in this area. We should also be careful not to be too pessimistic about the urbanisation trend. Until 1994 there was an increase in rural areas. At least that's what the Institute of Future Research says. Who was Finance Minister in 1994? That was the man who sat in the chair this morning. So no longer has it been since, and that is why it is up to the politicians to make sure that this development is reversed. It has to be said that the decisions we take in here are, of course, crucial to how things are going. Many of those who are attacking developments for a halt are, after all, those who themselves made structural reform and other centralisation reforms that so depopulated. We heard something about how there should be light in all town halls, but it's hard today to find a small town hall with light in it, it's actually hard to get past it for sales signs. So every time you make new legislation in here, you have to think about whether it is the right way for a Denmark that can hang together. We have just been sitting here this morning and passing a legislative proposal that companies should now enter agriculture. Well, does that mean there's life on the farms? No, it just means that it is now going to be Poles and other excellent people who then come as walking labour and have to do the work, which means that there will be far less of Grundtvig and family farming and local processing than there is already. That is why we must constantly aim to create a development which means that things will get going in the countryside. I think this proposal is very good and I would like to thank the SF for putting it forward. It also has the right political twist, and I am sure that the Left is not so comfortable with the content of this, because that is certainly not the way in which the Left policy works. All the things mentioned here, in particular the key words, namely that we must constantly aim for sustainability, that we must constantly aim for green growth, that we must make good raw materials, that there must be closeness, security, quietness, health and no stress, are the objectives we need to achieve, because that is the strength of our rural areas. So all in all, Enhedslisten can support this proposal that we think it is a way to move forward. It must not become a jar of jelly, and that is why the six-month time limit for the proposal is also important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130542	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn, who will be standing for a little while, has succeeded in doing so. Lars Dohn to provoke or induce, we must say, in order to express ourselves neutrally, a brief remark from Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130555	It is good to see that the President is neutral in his wording. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, is not here. Lars Dohn, does not welcome the fact that this resolution brings together a majority, but instead is busy talking about the fact that the Left does not know what they are now voting for and that it is against the policy of the Left: be careful, the Left, you must not support this, because then it will become reality. I know that some of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur may not always be wanted to become a reality, but if we put things in front of them in this proposal, then I do not think there are very many parties in the Folketing who do not think it is a good idea. After all, there are no parties that do not want sustainability. There are no parties that want to stress. It says here that you don't want stress. We're not in the Left for people to get stressed. On the other hand, there are a lot of good things, and all that has been sketched out is what the proposers, among others, are saying. Want it to contain. In addition, it is precisely up to all of us to provide input and all the ministries to provide input. So that is only very positive, and that is why I would like to thank both the rapporteur's party, but in particular the SF, which is now also beginning to support this line. So I don't think you should be so worried that you get a majority for something that has been proposed by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130725	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130726	Yes, but it is exactly as I have said here that every time we pass a new law in here, we must think forward as to whether it means a better balance for Denmark. And an agriculture that is becoming more stressful with foreign labour, which is very often not subject to our agreements and arrangements; an agriculture in which families are not the driving force, where it is not the community, where it is not co-operatives that are the driving force, but which are capitalised, is surely the wrong way to go. So I think it is difficult to see that someone who voted for such a proposal this morning, who is leading Danish agriculture in a completely wrong direction, can believe that we can be calm, that we can have all the good things that are in the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130825	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130825-2	In other words, the debate will now be very wide if we are going to debate foreign workers and seasonal workers etc., but we will have to do so when more of the Danes who are on transfer income do not want to take a job. I would like to ask you something quite specific, because I am now looking at the resolution tabled by the bourgeois parties exactly a year ago, as Mr. Lars Dohn's party and SF were against and voted against. I have explained that in the wording it is completely identical to the current proposal, and that is why I just have to ask: is it in the Enhedslisten that the bourgeois parties support the SF's motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130907	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130907-2	No, we're really happy about that. After all, we cannot go out and look at the internal bodies, how well-intentioned and heartfelt we support the political trend of these proposals. But it's happy. Anyone who wants to help set things in motion in the countryside, we are very happy about it. But what is crucial is to ensure that what is going to happen out there is financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130939	That was the brief remark made to Mr Seligman. Lars Dohn. We say thank you. Then I'll take a look around, and sir. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211130953	Thank you. It is true that in the past we have had a proposal for adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly which, like Mr Giscard d'Estaing, has been adopted by the European Parliament. Thomas Danielsen mentioned that he had largely the same wording. So it is just before we can stand up here and give the same speeches again, and I would actually like to say some of what I said last, namely that there is actually a lot of good going on in rural and peripheral areas. They are actually populated with fire-souls who want to do something themselves, and we actually regularly see examples of them keeping life alive in associations, assembly houses, sports grounds, summer parties, etc., and that is something you do even without interference at least without interference from this house. And I really don't think we should be smart about how this is gonna happen. We must help to provide proper conditions for it, and that is why we may have to start somewhere else, because when Denmark has been distorted, because the settlement pattern is that you move from country to city, it is closely linked to job shortages. And what has happened? It is that our industrial jobs have been ironed abroad. Why are they? They are because of our fiscal policy and, above all, they have affected the outermost regions. And people are so arranged that they want to live where they can get a job, earn their wages and feed their families. In fact, you want to, and when there is no work, you try to move somewhere else. It is not because you want to turn your back on the opportunities in the countryside. Many people actually want their children to grow up in the environments where there is proximity, where one knows one another and there is clarity and so on, and which may also be a little away from the temptations of the city, etc. So there's a lot of good to say about that. The only problem is that there is a shortage of jobs. That is why, as I did last time, I would just like to mention that it is there that the Liberal Alliance comes up with a policy that could be useful, namely that something needs to be done about the framework conditions for business so that jobs can still actually be found in Denmark, instead of thinking that every penny you come near at all should be sucked up into the treasury and low distribution policy, and then in here you adopt a plan of action on how to distribute the money and repair what you have just ruined with the policy you have pursued. I hope there will be an understanding of that in here. Hopefully, a blue majority will soon be able to spread, and the blue majority will have to understand that it is actually necessary to do something fundamental about this area. We must seriously look at our fiscal policy and seriously at the fact that the imbalance between the private and the public sectors is simply killing the development of this society. It is, of course, very nice that in this area we can agree on a report or something like this resolution. That is just not enough, because it is a patchwork of the policy that has been pursued for many years. That is why we would much rather make it possible to put an end to this society in which the top tax and the marginal tax rates are not available, and so on. tall enough because so much money is needed to distribute to patch up the damage. My entrance to this is that it would be better to do something about it. For there are plenty of fire souls in rural areas and villages etc. who want to create something themselves. We have seen many examples of this, and Mr Lars Dohn mentioned it when he said that we in the Rural Committee, in which we normally have a good atmosphere and a good community, quite across parties, talk sensibly about the problems that exist in rural areas. It can therefore be said that these things may not be particularly suitable for using such a motion for a resolution, which will then either be adopted or not. I am, of course, sorry that SF is not normally part of the community where we are on a tour of rural areas and see what is going on and actually get many things and good impressions with home. It is thus much better to take an interest in this than to come up with this motion for a resolution, because before long there will be parliamentary elections, and then suddenly there will be a great deal of interest in this area. We haven't seen anything like that before. Now it may be that for some years you have been bound to sit in government and have not had to breathe yourself. You do that now, but it's kind of a really bad example of politics. I just have to say that, unfortunately. I very much hope that we can maintain the good atmosphere in the Rural Committee, in which, across all parties, we have the task of supporting the forces that are out there and creating opportunities for them, so that there is still a breeding ground for good popular work in rural areas. With these comments, I hope that this will lead to a report which the committee can share. We think it is a good thing that light is shed on it, and this resolution is, after all, similar to what the bourgeois people have done in the past. That is why it is very, very difficult to oppose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131505	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131510	Well, we'd like to contribute, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Leif Mikkelsen, to the good atmosphere, and I hope we have done so up to now. And, by the way, I fully agree that this is always a good basis for being able to talk at all and develop some things. But, of course, I have to respond to sir. Leif Mikkelsen's introductory remarks, that is, the membership of the Liberal Alliance does not deny itself: the market solves everything And that is why I just want to hear: the public transport, the financing conditions in the countryside, which we have talked about in the past, the municipal compensation, all the things that you do at state and municipal level, I suppose, also have an impact on how rural life develops? I fully agree that there are a lot of fire-souls and that they do a huge job in many places. I fully agree with that, a great cadeau for them. Leif Mikkelsen virtually rejects, as I understood it, that this house should interfere, so I hope it is not in its utmost consequence. However, I believe that there are many things that we can do from in here or from town halls around.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131621	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131622	This is a fantastic occasion, and I would like to thank you, Mr President. Henning Hyllested to spread me a little bit about Liberal Alliance policy, so every corner comes along. For what I am pointing out, and what is the policy of the Liberal Alliance, is that we need to reduce taxes and taxes and that we need to have better framework conditions for business. This does not mean that we should not have a public sector of a certain size. I am just saying that it has been extremely overwhelming in Denmark and that there is an imbalance between the private and the public sectors, and we need to address that. This does not mean that there should be no public transport etc. In fact, the reality is that a family has to have two cars there, and they also need proper roads to drive. It's kind of more important. And the train doesn't come by very many places either. So there are, in fact, many things that do not happen out there because the public sector is paying for it. And that is why the money has not been given out very well to those who live in the countryside there is very far between the buses. That's the way it is. It's almost just school buses, and it's not that easy with everything else. So we have to bear in mind that there are differences between the country and the city in relation to the conditions we offer. After all, if we are creating a very large public sector, we are calling for many tax dollars and creating a very uneven distribution policy, because there are more people living in the city and they are getting a bigger share of it. And part of the money we collect and spend for various cultural purposes, etc., probably lands more often in Copenhagen than they land elsewhere. So there is good reason to pursue a policy other than that pursued so far if we are to have a better balance in this society. That's what I was trying to say. It was not the political desire of the Liberal Alliance to remove the public sector or do anything else, but I was given the opportunity to clarify that now, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131803	Even though we are spreading a little beyond the various issues, we still have to keep to the speaking time. But I'm sure of it, sir. Leif Mikkelsen will also endeavour to do so next time, because he will have the opportunity to answer one more time. Sir. Henning Hyllested for a further brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131815	Thank you for the opportunity, despite having a slightly broader discussion, when there is room for it. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen himself mentions the whole question of e.g. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Leif Mikkelsen has a fierce dislike of an excessive public sector. We are currently talking about traffic equality in relation to ferry traffic to the islands, but it is also a place where the public sector, like it, must get on the ground and do some things so that they can have proper conditions there. And we sit in the better and cheaper conciliation circle and allocate money to public transport in the outermost regions. But I also understand that it is not quite as purely liberal as I might have perceived at first, from Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131909	Speaking time also applies to Mr. Henning Hyllested just so we're quite ready for it. Then I give the floor to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211131916	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall be brief and precise, because it is very easy to answer Mr. Henning Hyllested on this. For our policy points precisely to lowering taxes and charges... do not remove them... so that we keep jobs in Denmark so that you can earn your money, feed your family and have a job where you live. And I'm assuming that mr. Henning Hyllested agrees with me that it has gone wrong in recent years. We do not even have to discuss if the blame is, I just point out that this is the real reason why things are going really wrong in rural areas. So we would like to have some form of public service, but it is therefore unnecessary to have the world's highest tax burden and a tax burden which says sparto and which hampers growth and development. It is unnecessary to have it in order to have a proper service, and that is as such just what we are pointing to. And if sir... Henning Hyllested is very much in doubt about our policy, I am willing to send him four key points with comments on etc. That would be good reading for Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132018	I do not think that the brief comments are enough for us to go further along that path today. But there's a lot of debates, so we're gonna get around it all. That was the last brief remark to make to Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, so I'm grateful to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. Leif Mikkelsen. Then we have come to the point in today's programme that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132043	Thank you for the debate. It is almost tempting to say that Christmas peace would fall anyway. When you think of the first debate we had about mortgage banks, you might say this went a little differently. I think we should commend the government for having actually launched many initiatives. We got a nice list of them for a start. I think that's really good. When we talk about the outermost regions, it often has such a rather sad glance or becomes negative, because of course there are also some challenges that need to be solved, but I really do believe that the people who live in the outermost regions will not be seen as victims. They have seen an everyday life that works well. I think that the only thing they want is equal opportunities, the same opportunities that all of us have, and that is actually fair enough. Two years ago, I was not the rapporteur in this area, and the old resolution tabled by the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, I think it was, did not appear from the material list in the background material of the resolution, so I have not actually been able to know the proposal, but it is really good that we have a coincidence of interests here. Unlike what happened in the field of mortgage credit, I have no wish to exclude anyone from a discussion on this, so I would actually suggest that we take a closer discussion in committee on what we can agree on. I believe that we have a great many common denominators. I have never imagined that we could solve all the problems in the outermost regions over a night. I do not think we have enough money or time for that, because some of them are something that requires a little more long-term thinking, but I think it is quite important that we start doing the overall analysis to see what is then of challenges and how they can actually be solved. Then, of course, we must take a position and then give priority to what the means and the mood of the various parties are. I think it is important that we move forward in this discussion, and I think that the proposal is not going to be put to the vote for the time being at least, but that we should take a closer look at it here in committee. So I thank you for your kindness, and I must then also send a little praise to the Left, Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, which has apparently been out earlier than us. I now believe that there are nuances when you look at the proposals, but let it be. We are here to create solutions, and that is probably the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132329	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. I have just one brief comment to make, and it is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132336	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the Socialist People's Party once again on making this proposal, because, as I said, it has been a wish for a long time. I would also like to congratulate you on the openness that you maintain, namely that we should all have the opportunity to provide some input into such a plan of action for rural areas. This is of the utmost importance. It doesn't really matter to me what's causing you to change your mind. Of course, I think that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen may have a point in that it may have something to do with the fact that you are not sitting in the government anymore and that it gives some freedoms. We welcome that. But the rapporteur concludes by saying that the rapporteur does not wish to put the proposal to the vote provisionally. I would like the rapporteur to clarify a little more what the rapporteur means by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132433	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132435	I understood that there was a desire from the Left to provide input. I guess that means we're gonna have to discuss what those inputs are gonna be. So perhaps it is smarter to make a report in committee which then goes on what we can agree on. I wish that this kind of thing worked the other way too, so that when it comes to mortgage loans, you could actually let SF and Enhedslisten in when it comes to the fact that we would like to have examined models with state funding. I do not think that anyone should be prevented from coming up with the good solutions in advance. Then we can always decide what we are actually going to end up with afterwards. It is not certain that we agree on all the solutions, but I do not think that anything should be cut off in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132527	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132529	We can easily discuss this in committee, even if we put it to the vote. The reason I want to put it to the vote and the reason why it is very important is that it is the only way we can impose something on the government. As you yourself write in the motion for a resolution, the relevant ministries must be required to provide input to this action plan for rural areas, so that we have a comprehensive action plan as soon as possible. If we are lucky, we can do so before the end of the parliamentary term, so we have a plan ready for a new parliamentary assembly. The problem for me is that if we now say that we are pulling it out and would like to confine ourselves to talking about it in committee and not put it to the vote, we will not be imposing on the government what is so important about this proposal that the SF has tabled, among other things. that the ministries are required to provide input for a comprehensive action plan and that the government is the target of this plan being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132628	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132629	Then maybe I just misunderstood the Left's desire to influence what should be in it. I thought that we could best clarify that in committee. But I understand that is not the wish of the Left, and that is fine. It was to accommodate what the Left would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132646	Then there are two more brief comments. The next one is from Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132650	Thank you. I think it is really nice to hear that the SF would like us in committee to continue to agree on what this should contain. It's a really sympathetic move. If it is the case that so far no committee meetings or study trips have appeared, nor was the rapporteur, since we had the debate here two years ago, then it is clear and understandable that the SF has fallen a little behind the knowledge we have in the rural sector, and that is why I would like to make myself available. If Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt needs to know a little about what is going on in rural areas, I would very much like to give Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt an update on what else has happened. What I would like to know is: When, during this parliamentary term, the SF has centralised, moved the Agriculture Commission to Copenhagen and moved the environmental centres to Copenhagen, is it a policy that the SF will pursue forward-looking, or are you more free now that you are no longer in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132753	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132755	I believe with all honour and respect to DF's rapporteur that I do not need an update. I think in time I'll cover the gaps in my knowledge in this area. After all, I have only been rapporteur for two months, so that is not all I know at this stage. In relation to centralisation, I fully understand that there are some issues, and unfortunately I do not think one party has anything to let the other party hear in this area. I think that the biggest fade happened when we had a municipal reform that SF wasn't part of, because it took out these many small center towns. And that is something that has helped to accelerate development. However, one of the proposals we are planning in this area is, in fact, that we have to make an analysis of each legislative proposal, just as we are making an environmental assessment and an economic analysis of what the proposals mean for the outermost regions, so that we have at least an eye open to what we are doing in here. Because I think you sometimes come across proposals that make good sense individually, but when you throw them all on top of each other, it becomes a rather toxic cocktail for our outermost regions. So we'd like to make this much more visible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132910	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132913	Well, as I said, it sounds like a sympathetic move, which we in the Danish People's Party naturally also agree with. Now Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says that the SF would like it back in committee. Would it be possible to envisage procedurally that we took it at the next committee meeting, that we there sat together and agreed and then I really hope that the SF can also come there and then, as a committee, we could put it in the Chamber after having agreed, so that we can put it forward before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132945	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132947	It would be easy to think of that as an approach. That would be the normal procedure, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211132955	Then we actually have two more short remarks, the first of the next two is Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133005	Now, as rapporteurs and Things, I think we should all be pleased that the SF has now got a rapporteur who has really gotten involved in this. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur of the SF for taking these initiatives. I would like to stress that I think that is very good. What I am listening to in this debate is that there is really a majority in favour of this resolution. It may well be that the government doesn't have to. I think I can listen to that, too. So I would like to hear some comments on the whole discussion about taking it back in committee and discussing it. There are a lot of good things in the proposal here, and there is really no need to soften them if there is in fact a majority among the parties in favour of this being a good way to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133101	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133103	No, there may be a point to that. I just understood that the Left wanted to be involved in this process and had some input, and that was actually why. I think that when there is such a request and we actually agree that something should happen, it would naturally be that we discussed what those inputs should be, in addition to what is here. But if you're satisfied with this proposal, there's no reason to take that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133128	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133131	Well, nobody has a problem with it coming back to committee and then discussing it there, etc. But I understood Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that it is true that if you are to get something out of it, the government must be imposed on something. And then it is of no use that we already have an opportunity to soften it up in the form of a report or let it run into the sand, or whatever. So it should also be just an invitation to the SF rapporteur to stick to his own resolution and then leave it as a basis for a good discussion in a committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133205	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133207	Thank you for your invitation. Of course, we stand by our resolution and we would like it to be implemented. That is why we have put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133215	Then there is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133220	Thank you. In fact, I would like to sign for what my colleague Mr. Henning Hyllested said earlier, namely that SF joins the struggle to improve conditions in rural areas. I would also like to sign for what I hear the SF's rapporteur saying, namely that the SF really also invites us to have broad support in the Rural Committee, in terms of how this should be done here. I note that the rapporteur mentions that we should try to see whether there is any possibility of making an analysis so that we can simply see what this really is for a problem we are facing. I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this could be a viable path, because I think that would be a positive approach, which we would recommend from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133313	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133315	There is no doubt that we need a clarification and a closer analysis before we put initiatives into the sea. That is what the whole proposal is about. After all, it is difficult to identify what initiatives need to be targeted when you do not have the explanation. It is clear that this must be the prerequisite for the action plan to be launched. In fact, I also think that we are giving some indication of this in the proposal, because we are asking for input from the ministries. Our point is that the effort right now is scattered, not coherent, and there are a lot of things to tackle. A lot of things are quite expensive, if it is that you tackle them, but it is important that we put some plan in place and give priority to what it is that we first have to start. But it is clear that this presupposes an analysis and an analysis beforehand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133402	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133404	Thank you. That's really, really good to hear. I am now looking at my colleagues in the committee, because I have the feeling that after a long period of cooperation in the committee across the parties and the political perceptions, we have come to a common understanding that if we are to solve these things, we have to solve them together, and that is on the basis of what we can say, the options that are available. This applies both to the proposal we are debating now and to the previous proposal. I sense that there is a very great will to go really, really far together • as far as you can • because it is actually the only way we can take seriously the issues that are out there, so that the people who are out there can also feel that we are actually doing something active in Christiansborg to solve them. That is why I would just like to acknowledge the reports made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133457	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133458	Thank you for that and thank you for the whole debate here. I would suggest that the committee discuss it on Tuesday, and then I will have to try to see if I can give it priority over the group meeting and all the other things. But we have an important case here, because this is about Denmark's cohesion, and I am concerned about it, and I am concerned that there are equal opportunities wherever you live. We have a political duty to ensure this together, and that is why I am, of course, pleased that there is such broad support here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133526	Yes, there is one more brief comment, and it is from Helle Løvgreen Mølvig from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133531	Thank you. I would also like to urge that we take it back in committee and that we sit down in a broad understanding of the problem and its seriousness and provide input to a report. I also agree with what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt herself just said, namely that we need a broad basis to analyse from. If it is to be a global effort and strategy, it is very important that we have a broad foundation on which all aspects have been turned and where there is input from different ministries. So I would also like to endorse the Socialists' proposal that we take it back in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133625	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133626	In other words, the whole idea of the proposal is that we should have a broad basis, so I think that is in the proposal. A proposal would be for us to discuss what the mood in committee is on Tuesday, and then we will find out what the progress road is in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133643	Then it's Helle Løvgreen Mølvig. Or is there nothing else?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133651	Well, I think that's a great idea. We would very much like to work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133655	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133656	I do not think I have any further comments on this. I think I have repeated a few times that I think it is good that there is support and that it seems that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133705	It might sound as if the debate on this subject has been exhausted for today. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133723	I can see that the first rapporteur, the rapporteur on the Left, should be Mr. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133756	I understand the Minister's amazement, but this is because, unfortunately, our rapporteur cannot be here, which is why I have been asked to present his views. To defend them I will safely leave him, I must honestly say. The Minister has tabled the bill amending the law on environmental contributions and compensation for the scrapping and scrapping of cars. The incentive for the draft law is primarily to make the processing process more efficient and to reduce the administrative burden arising from the payment of scrap payment on entry in the Waste Register. The bill mainly deals with the digitisation of the application process for the payment of scrap allowance for cars and authorisation as a collection company, as well as registration and reporting to the Waste Register. Digitisation of procedures is a necessary but important development and can help to ease administration and reduce bureaucracy. We are, of course, positive about this. In addition, we take note of the fact that the draft law is being praised in many consultation responses specifically concerning the proposed digitisation. It is positive that many companies in the industry themselves also see digitalisation as a welcome thing. It should be noted, however, that it can be a great advantage to involve the industry in the development of the IT system, which must constitute the necessary digitisation, in order to gain greater insight into a smooth implementation. As a starting point, therefore, the Left is in favour of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133924	Thank you, sir. Søren Pind and gives the floor to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Søren Pind. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211133933	Thank you. The Socialists, as the rapporteur of the Left has just pointed out, are in favour of this proposal, which in fact is mostly about simplifying and making it easier to get rid of, for example. its old car or being registered in relation to handling waste. Of course, on the first part of the proposal, which deals with collecting and car scraping in digitalisation, we think it is a good idea to make it as easy as possible. It is clear that IT systems must work and be user-friendly; they must be up and running; all these things we need to get to grips with. But it is basically crazy to do a slower procedure, a more laborious process, just because it has to run on paper, as it has always done. That is why, of course, we look forward to it being digitised. Another important part of the proposal is to reduce the price of batteries for those who produce batteries. It is because they help to ensure that batteries do not end up in the wild and that we can also ensure that waste ends up in the right places. There we have made a system which must rest in itself and on which no one is supposed to profit. We can see that at the beginning the contribution was set a little too low. That is why we made a change in 2012, which caused us to pick up both on the deficit that was, but also on the deficit that had been accumulated, and now we have made the scheme go to zero. It is therefore also the expectation that we can now hit a contribution from the batteries, which will ensure that no one makes any profit from it here, but that at the same time they will ensure that they are the ones who produce the batteries, which will also help to pay for them to be recovered. It is important for the Socialists that we deal with our waste in the best possible way, environmentally, and it is important that we make it as simple as possible. That's why we welcome this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134121	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134130	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, too, we are positive about the proposal • It is sometimes easier to speak Danish when you stand up here. There is one concern we have, and that is, of course, a little in relation to digitisation. We're not afraid of technology. I'll be quick to say we're not. But this isn't something new that's been invented or anything else, because we've been able to scrap cars all along. But what is important to us is that the systems that are now being created are user-friendly, and somewhere else may also be user-tested before starting them, because I sometimes have the impression that digital systems are being created without even thinking that it is also Mr. and Mrs. Hansen, who will serve them. So I would certainly urge you to do so. I don't know if it should be in relation to this proposal, it may be a small one, but when we in the Danish People's Party talk about digitisation, we at least also think it is important that we sometimes have some evaluations of whether the way we do digitalisation works is appropriate to the users who are now. I'm not sure this case is big enough for it to be here, but I just think it's important to mention in relation to the whole digitisation process. Apart from that, we are quite positive about the proposal in the Danish People's Party, and we are quite sure that it will be a relief to be able to do so on machines after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134307	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Then it is Mrs Lone Loklindt as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134312	As we have heard, this bill is primarily about improving the scrapping scheme for cars, where we have a scrap payment which, of course, means that we do not have cars in Denmark that are left around in the countryside, but that they are scrapped, so that we can re-utilize the resources that are in the used cars. After all, we in Denmark have a great deal of focus on reducing the environmental impact of waste disposal, and that is of course for the sake of the environment, but also more and more for the sake of scarce resources and for the sake of better use of resources. There is a great deal of metal and other recyclable materials, among others. cars, but also environmentally dangerous substances that need to be dealt with. Now, of course, the legislative proposal is primarily about having mandatory digital communication so that it will be with less difficulty and less burdens for users, and we look forward to this from a radical point of view; it will also involve the actors involved in building it, so that we have a digitisation that corresponds to the needs that exist. The bill is also about the digitisation of the waste register, which must help ensure that waste is treated properly, and in this context it is also the aim to reduce the burden on businesses and to make processing easier and shorter. Then, as has also been mentioned, the legislative proposal is about reducing the contribution of batteries. We have previously looked at other arrangements where it is precisely about their being rested in themselves. When the contribution is to be reduced, it is because the contribution is only intended to cover current costs, and it seems that it should be possible to increase if the contribution is reduced as outlined. So the Radical Left is very positive about the bill and has no other comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134532	Thank you to Mrs Lone Loklindt. I give the floor to the next rapporteur from the SF and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134539	Thank you. SF is positive with regard to the elements of the bill and, of course, basically the primary focus or purpose, namely to streamline procedures and reduce administrative burdens for citizens and businesses. There is one point on which we would like to drill a little during committee work and perhaps also ask the Minister a few questions, although it may be a little difficult to give a general answer that applies to all vehicles and all situations. However, the draft law provides for the possibility for the environmental processor, with the consent of the owner, to try to re-sell a vehicle that would otherwise have to be scrapped. On the one hand, the time when a new vehicle will be produced will be postponed and the resource will be reduced; on the other hand, the new vehicle will have less pollution and better safety equipment. So to what extent will our proposal here shift that balance and do it at all? It's something we'd like to drill in a little bit. We are positive about the bill, but sometimes it can be difficult to judge the balance of this when we talk about the car area in general. In addition, we are also waiting for a reform of the vehicle tax, which was promised in the government base, where the parties have been called for negotiations in the new year. That reform, if it is based on the fact that we have to drive several kilometres on the litre and to a greater extent than diesel and petrol, could mean a leap forward if it is carried out properly, and that is to say if it comes at some point in time. But we look forward to the committee reading and the discussions we will have there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134727	After all, one of the three important elements of this bill is the proposal for mandatory digitalisation in this area, that is to say, that all communications must be made electronically. We have such a slightly varied view on this. After all, we think it is important that, when we introduce this kind of thing, it is clearly in the interests of our citizens and that we must ensure that it is also the case that citizens can really benefit and benefit from it. From what we have been able to read in the bill here, this is an example of an area where it is clearly sensible and positive to introduce this digitalisation, so we can support that too in relation to registration. There is also something about the payment of scrap compensation, where some minor changes are made, which we also think are sensible, and then there is one of the discussions that, although it does not sound like today, has actually filled a lot in the past, namely the discussion on how to ensure that the battery industry also pays for the subsequent disposal of the batteries they sell. After all, it has always been the intention of the producers to pay for it, and then there has been a discussion on how to hit the right amount. And you've tried to hit it right once or twice. Now we say that we are quite sure that we are hitting right, and I assume that is right. There is no doubt that those who have to pay for this have the view that they are probably paying a little more, and they may think that the evidence of what the municipalities actually have of the cost of disposing of these batteries is somewhat inadequate. On the other hand, it is also our view that it must be reasonable and reasonable to be sure that the costs are covered, and there are also limits to how many bureaucratic details you have to throw yourself into. Of course, there is one thing that needs to be borne in mind: the extent to which this charge on batteries means that the Danes buy batteries instead via the grid, where you then pay no tax, and in this way you do not get the money in the checkout you can say that you have to dispose of the batteries. But I am sure that we will be able to clarify this in the course of the committee's work. That is the only thing, but from the outset, the Enhedslisten is positive about this bill, and we also expect us to be able to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Thyra Frank of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211134956	Since the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in this area cannot be present, I am the one who will read the rapporteur's speech. The bill that we are discussing here hits right into one of the main issues of the Liberal Alliance. We would like to see a smaller public sector and a more efficient public sector, and we would like to see taxes reduced. Here we are dealing with a legislative proposal which deals with automatic processing, which means that you will get answers as soon as certain clear criteria are met. It is, of course, by no means all procedures that require assessments, and in this case, when it comes to the simple payment of a scrap premium, it is excellent that everything has been placed on the website. Many will be able to get answers immediately and move on. In addition, tax reductions are also being announced on the waste portable batteries and recyclers, I repeat: tax reductions. It is certainly not every day that we see it in here, so yes, thank you, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135108	I would also like to thank Mrs Thyra Frank as rapporteur. And we are giving the floor to the next rapporteur, and that should be from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Lars Barfoed. Maybe. I admit that not all rapporteurs fill the five minutes under this point, but... That's good. It's sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135138	Thank you. It is the case that the Conservative rapporteur on this matter, Daniel Rugholm, unfortunately cannot be present, and then he has asked me to say what he intended to say. He has also told me what he intended to say, and I shall then state it. After all, we are dealing here with an amendment to the law on environmental contributions and compensation for the scrapping and scrapping of cars and the law on environmental protection. The Conservative People's Party is a warm advocate of efficiency in the public sector. This applies to both the state, the regions and the municipalities, where we constantly need to improve our workflows and our internal and external communication and processing. It is also an important focus that we are constantly working to reduce administrative burdens for citizens, but especially for companies, so that they can free up resources to create growth and development instead of drowning in bureaucracy. One way to do it is through digitisation. This must, of course, always be done with respect for the ability of the individual citizen. It must not be the case that there are citizens who lose rights, legal certainty and opportunities because they are not able to communicate digitally, but that should also have been taken into account in this context, but that is something that we in the conservatives will be watching closely. In this case, these are digital applications for the payment of scrap compensation, the approval of collection companies, the inclusion in the waste register and the automatic procedure for the payment of compensation. Registration of dealers, brokers and transporters as well as collection companies will also be subject to the automatic processing procedure. In addition to the many digital improvements, there will also be a new right of appeal for the payment of compensation and supervisory provisions, and we will reduce the fixed payment rate charged to manufacturers and importers of portable batteries and accumulators as part of their producer responsibility to cover the municipal collection of waste portable batteries and accumulators. Perhaps a little too many technical details, but just to sum up that there is actually a lot of efficiency and digitalisation of casework and applications, which are now becoming significantly easier to deal with both for citizens and companies as well as for the state. Most of the changes concern business and we have noted that both FDM, Danish Industry and several other business organisations are positive about the changes. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135421	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. Then I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135432	First of all, thank you for the broad support for the proposal. Of course, you can sometimes get a little worried when the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that we are now hitting right into all the issues of the Liberal Alliance with this proposal, but when you listen to the rapporteurs broadly in the Chamber, it sounds as if there is something here that we agree on as such is a good idea. So allow me to welcome that on today's occasion. But the primary purpose of this bill is to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses when they want to get rid of their old car or when companies want to dispose of their waste, and we want to ensure this by digitising and automating the administration's procedures. The proposal is part of the achievement of the Government's goal of digital communication between citizens and businesses and the public sector. So first of all, digitalisation must make the administrative processes easier and faster when you want to get rid of your used car. Since the year 2000, the scrapping allowance has helped to ensure that car owners hand in their old cars and not, for example, their cars. leave them in the wild, and the cars are handed over for legal scrapping. In this way, we will ensure that cars do not burden the environment unnecessarily, that scrapping takes place legally and that the metal and the many valuable parts are recycled as far as possible. That arrangement has had a good effect, but we can do even better. It must be easier both for the citizen, who has to be paid compensation for scraping, and for the companies that scrap the cars, the carjackers, and that is why we are now making the scheme digital. In future, you will have to apply for the allowance via an IT system. The system will help the citizen to make a full application immediately, and the citizen will receive his or her reimbursement more quickly because the processing process is automated at the same time. I can tell the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that a process is planned in which professional users are also involved, so that we ensure that the model here is simple and easy for those who need it, because of course I agree that it is important that it is. Overall, the digitalisation and automated processing of scrap payment will mean shorter processing times, and I am listening to everyone think that is a good idea. It's a win-win situation. It has also been important for me to ensure that our legislation is secured against cheating, and therefore we are closing a potential gap in the legislation so that only compensation is paid for scrapped cars registered in Denmark. Cars registered abroad cannot therefore receive an allowance if the owner chooses to have it scrapped in Denmark. In addition, the companies that scrap cars are given a new opportunity to try to sell the used cars on. We're making with the bill new supervisory rules that prevent cheating with car scraping. Another part of the bill is intended to extend the digitalisation of the Waste Register, which has existed since 2010. The Directory may include: other help companies to find other companies that can and legally have to take off their waste. This makes it easier for companies to dispose of their waste for the right treatment. The bill now requires registered companies to apply digitally for inclusion in the Waste Register, and parts of the processing process are also made digital. Thus, digitalisation in this area will also ease the burden on businesses and the processing time will be shorter. It is important for IT systems to be easy to use for citizens and for businesses, and, as I said, there will also be an inclusive process in relation to it. A third part of the bill reduces the rate to be paid by producers of portable batteries and accumulators to cover the costs of municipal collection schemes. This will ease the financial burden on producers and importers. The proposal will mean that producers and importers will finance only the expected current costs of the collection scheme in the future. It is important that there is an economic balance in the scheme, as it is a rest in itself. But then it's for Enhedslisten • if we've hit right, it's something we'll also follow forward, because it's something that's also proven to be evolving. All in all, we are updating the legislation to make it easier and quicker for citizens and businesses to get rid of their old cars and their waste in a good and correct way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135846	Then I say thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no brief comments, and I do not see that anyone else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135903	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211135923	Thank you. The Enhedslisten and SF, together with Johan Lund Olsen from Inuit Ataqatigiit, have proposed a parliamentary resolution on the recognition of an independent Palestinian state. The proposal is essentially a re-submission of motion for a resolution No. B 52 from the parliamentary year 2012-13, which SF was not behind at the time. First of all, I would like to stress that the government fully shares the objective of a Palestinian state. The government's basis specifically states that, in close cooperation with the other EU countries, we will work for recognition so that the government's Palestine policy is clear: we want a free and independent Palestine, which must be a fully recognised and equal member of the UN and other international organisations. The government has actively worked to promote a Palestinian state, and in November 2012 Denmark voted in the UN General Assembly in order to give Palestine the status of non-member observer state in the UN. The Danish 'yes' vote was and is a support for a two-state solution and for a Palestinian state-building. On 3 April 2014, the Folketing also adopted a bill granting Palestine's mission in Denmark the same immunities and privileges as those of diplomatic missions. The government's work to promote an independent Palestinian state does not mean that we will take anything from Israel • on the contrary. The two-state solution is the only solution that can ensure that in the long term Israel can live in security with secure borders and in peace with its neighbours. Israel's legitimate security interests cannot, of course, be safeguarded through an occupation of the territory of another people. The recent increase in violence in and around Jerusalem and the tragic conflict in Gaza in the summer underlines that the status quo is completely unsustainable for both the Israeli and the Palestinian populations. But it is not only the Palestinians and the Israelis who are at stake. We all do. The conflict has a destabilising effect that extends beyond the borders of the region, and it also has consequences for Europe. With the current major challenges in the region, not least in the form of the threat from ISIL and other extremist groups, there is more need than ever before for lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Only a two-state solution can help to secure that. The violent escalation is very serious, and I fear, like many others, that the situation can escalate out of control. Only yesterday a Palestinian minister was killed in confrontations between Palestinians and Israeli security forces in the West Bank. The death is tragic and I have stressed the need for an investigation of the circumstances. In the light of developments on the ground, it is important that the parties refrain from any action that may provoke or incite further unrest. Political leaders on both sides must show the courage and willingness to compromise to reverse the situation. First of all, Israel must put an end to the illegal and conflict-removal settlements that actually undermine the possibility of a two-state solution. Israelis must also take tangible steps to improve the unfair framework for the Palestinians' everyday lives. In particular, the long-standing blockade of Gaza must be lifted. At the same time, the gradual demilitarisation of Hamas and other armed groups in Gaza is urgently needed to put an end to the launch of rockets against Israel and its inhabitants. Finally, any attack on civilians such as those we are experiencing in and around Jerusalem must stop. It is vital that the Palestinians also continue the efforts of reconciliation and work towards holding democratic elections in a comprehensive Palestine. Palestinian self-government has made great efforts to build the necessary state structures and public administration, and state-building is a cornerstone of the work towards the establishment of a Palestinian state. Without this effort, a viable state will never exist. Denmark and the European Union have therefore given massive support to Palestinian state-building, and we will continue to do so. I do not want to hide the fact that order in the Palestinian house, in other words real momentum in the internal Palestinian political process, will make a very significant contribution to the Palestinian state-building mentioned. The international community with the United States has long been strongly committed to promoting a negotiated two-state solution between the Israelis and the Palestinians. The European Union itself has not been a driving force in international efforts, but we have contributed. As I have stressed on other occasions, I do not believe that the European Union can sit down and force a solution through, but I believe that the European Union must come closer to the parties, both with carrot and with stick. I have mentioned on several occasions that I consider the settlements to be the most important area in which the European Union has an opportunity to push things in the right direction. Denmark and the European Union have already taken a number of important steps to ensure that settlements are not favoured, and I would like the European Union to go further along the same path. Denmark is also closely following developments in the UN and will work for any step that can bring peace and a two-state solution closer. But let it be quite clear: decisive progress towards a negotiated solution can only be achieved through sincere commitment from the parties themselves. They have the key to the parties and not the international community. Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas have said that they want a two-state solution, but the words have not been transformed into the necessary action. The shipwrecked peace negotiations earlier this year are another sad sign of this. Israel, with its current government constellation, does not seem to have the will and political power to work seriously for a negotiated solution, and the internal divisions on the Palestinian side prevent the Palestinians from appearing as a credible and legitimate negotiating party. That is, as I see it, the fundamental challenge • the lack of will of one party and the inability of the other party. Generally speaking, we must look a long way for encouraging signs in the peace process. While the government would like to continue to see recognition of Palestine as a result of a negotiated solution between the parties, I recognise that developments on the ground at the moment. I do not work for the two-state solution, and I recognise that this includes, among other things: is in the light of the fact that the Swedish recognition of Palestine and the parliamentary votes in several other countries, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain and France, must be seen. As I said, the government is working for an independent Palestine and we look forward to officially recognising Palestine as a state. However, timing is essential. The government is of the opinion that Danish recognition of Palestine at this stage will not help push the peace process in the right direction. Recognition will have the greatest positive effect if it comes as a coordinated EU effort based on the broadest possible consensus within the EU circle. Recognition must come at a time when such a step will have as much impact as possible on efforts to achieve a two-state solution, and we are not there today. There is very broad support here in the Folketing for the objective of a negotiated two-state solution. There is also a broad consensus on how a Danish government should deal with the elements that form the main components of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This has been expressed most recently by the adoption of proposals for adoption No. V 13 in January of this year, for which only one party abstained. The Government wishes to maintain as far as possible the broad consensus in the Folketing in relation to Palestine and the total Israeli-Arab conflict. And the government will therefore continue to work very actively, in accordance with the government base and in close cooperation with the other EU countries, to create the right political conditions for the recognition of the state of Palestine. When available, as previously stated in Foreign Policy Name and in accordance with Paragraph 19 of the Constitution, the government will consult the Name. This is the correct and usual procedure for the government's exercise of the government's prerogatives. That is why the government cannot support a motion for a resolution in which the Folketing instructs the government to recognise Palestine. I therefore call, together on behalf of the government, for this motion for a resolution to be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211140842	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211140847	I thank the Minister for a relatively sober assessment of the situation, and it is precisely that this is problematic. Where I think the chain is jumping off violently is not in the analysis of the situation and in the assessment of the need for action to secure the two states. It is when the Minister says that the timing is wrong. I mean, if not now, when? And if not Denmark and the rest of the EU now, then who? It is, of course, the case that the Americans' attempts via John Kerry have fallen to the ground, as the Minister pointed out. In order to move forward, will it not be necessary for a united Europe to say: then we must play the role that the Minister acknowledged that we have not played? Isn't this the time to do this, because the support for Abbas is fading? 44 per cent President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If we do nothing, is there not a great risk that the whole thing will escalate and that Hamas may also gain a majority in the West Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141003	I am glad that we at least share the analysis. Earlier in the day, I heard Mr. Christian Juhl say on the radio that this is, of course, primarily a question of whether we will take the symbolic step of making a recognition. Many countries have done so before, and I recognise that it will be a great symbolic step. But my view of it is enough that such symbolic steps only make sense if you have a serious belief that they will make a difference and bring a peace closer. And there we do have a slightly different analysis. I note that all countries other than Sweden, which has dealt with this recently, have come to the same conclusion as me: we want and look forward to recognising a Palestinian state, but we believe that this should happen in the European Union and at a time when it can actively contribute to a peace process. We don't have so many tools in the toolbox. They must be used with care and with the right timing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141106	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141107	If it turns out that things are escalating and going backwards while we wait, then all our efforts are falling on the floor. If Abbas gives up being the leader of his country at all, if it all ends in anarchy, if the extreme right wins the elections in Israel, then we have a situation in which we can be appalled that we did not act in time. That's one thing. I do not think this is just a symbolic act. In fact, recognition in the UN has meant that Palestine can now bring cases before international courts. Three days ago you became a member of the International Criminal Court. Apart from that, I suppose it is an illusion that we should just wait for the European Union. Surely we must push through development in the European Union so that the European Union will play a role and a majority will emerge.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141155	But it is true that the recognition that Palestine has already been given at the United Nations by becoming an observer, and which we helped to give them, has had a concrete meaning beyond the symbolic. In this case, however, I have to say that I sincerely do not believe that unilateral Danish recognition will have any meaning whatsoever beyond what the Palestinians can already do. On the other hand, I believe that it may have a real political significance if we succeed in bringing the European Union together in a more active role in an overall strategy, and that is what I am concerned about. Because even if it will not be a guarantee of more peace, as I believe everyone who is here today, deeply shares the desire for peace, it will, however, have a greater chance of working than if Denmark did alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141244	Then there is a further brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141246	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good and sober speech in many ways. I think we all agree that it would be beneficial if the European Union as a whole could recognise Palestine, but there are some issues there. And Mogherini has said quite clearly that it is not a matter for the European Union in the real sense; it is a matter for the Member States. And it must then be about having some sort of coordination of recognition. But it is still an expression of the fact that it is the individual countries that must and can do this here and should also do so, and that is why there is a discussion in different countries about it. But what I am most puzzled about is that the Minister does not have a look at the situation of the moderate Palestinians at the moment. It's Abbas who asked for this. He is very, very weakened both in relation to Israel and in relation to the radical forces of the Palestinians. Why? Because Israel did not want to agree at all to give him concessions in the negotiations. And if a solution is to be found, the moderate forces of the Palestinians and Israel must negotiate such a solution. Is it not in our interest to strengthen the moderate forces and thus strengthen Abbas in the present situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141409	Well, I don't have to hide the fact that it's a complex question. There are clearly some things that speak in favour and some things that speak against. And the most important thing, in terms of advocating recognition, is that it gives much-needed and symbolic but also moral support to Palestinian self-government. I'm just afraid it's of a very short-term nature. In fact, I think that Swedish recognition has shown that it brought great joy to the streets of Ramallah for a few days, but that it has not moved anything, either in relation to the reality of the Palestinians, and I would venture to say that it has not, either, in relation to the political opinion polls in Ramallah, I do not know that, but I would doubt that, not at all in relation to the peace process. So I think it is a very brief pleasure, if I may say so, to give Abbas through this, in relation to what I would hope to be a more coordinated and heavier support through having something to play in the European Union. And if you play this card first, you don't have a card to play anymore in an EU context. And that's what speaks against doing it now. And that's what weighs the most for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141518	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141519	Yes, but how short or how long a pleasure this is for Abbas, I think we should leave it to the Palestinians to judge for themselves. Well, they've asked for this, and for them it's very, very important that we do it. In relation to whether Swedish recognition has had an effect, I would say that I think it is too early to say anything about that. And that also depends on whether other countries are joining. After all, there is much evidence that there is a more dynamic discussion now in a number of European countries. The British House of Commons voted shortly after Sweden's recognition, and in France there is a debate I understood that the French Foreign Minister has put forward an idea that negotiations should start, and then after two years you can recognise. In other words, there are various initiatives going on about this, so why should we just sit down with our arms crossed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141606	Well, we certainly don't. If there's something we don't have to do, it's sitting down with our arms crossed. Indeed, we must be exactly where things are currently being decided in the European machinery spaces. And in all the countries, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned, England, Italy, France, Spain, where it has been debated in recent weeks, the same conclusion has been reached: we must show the Palestinians that we are ready to support them, and we must show the Israelis that it is not necessarily only after a solution has been negotiated but that it can also help to be used in the negotiations themselves. And it is precisely in the same direction that the Danish Government is now in order for us to be part of the group that is trying to define a new peace process, but also a more active EU policy there. But if all those countries choose not to make recognition now, but to pool their recognition cards in a joint effort, then I also think that the best thing Denmark can do is to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141706	Then there is a further brief comment. It's from sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141709	First of all, thank you for a nuanced response from the Foreign Minister. It is clear that there are nuances in the arguments and that there are things that speak both for and against the recognition of Palestine. However, following on from what the SF's rapporteur said, I am also curious about what is actually the rationale of the position taken by the Danish Government, in that the Danish Government believes that they can assess whether it is for the benefit of the Palestinians or not, whether we recognise them when they say that it matters. So one thing is that the Palestinians say that it matters if we recognise them as a state. Another thing is that we, all of us MFs, have received a letter from over 800 prominent citizens of Israel, in which they are clearly calling for recognition of the Palestinian State. These are former ministers, Nobel Prize winners, researchers and prominent opinion-formers in Israel, and they say this is important. So we see both Palestinians and progressive forces in Israel saying that recognition will mean something. And yet the EU and Denmark consider that it is not the right thing to do at this stage. But does it not make the impression that both the Palestinians and progressive forces in Israel want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211141832-2	Absolutely, it always makes a big impression. And I have even had the opportunity to discuss this issue in depth with the Palestinians when I visited both Ramallah and Gaza recently. As several speakers have said, there is no doubt that the Palestinians would like to see the recognition of as many as possible as soon as possible in the current situation. In view of all the discussions I had, I would also like to conclude that there is also a rather realistic idea of what it could do in the current peace process, which is unfortunately not so damn much. There is greater confidence in paragraph 1, the UN trail that Abbas is now trying to bring to the market, and on which many views can be expressed whether realistic or not. It will therefore also require that the Security Council's permanent members support that and, paragraph 2, if the EU was ready for more extensive action in this area, including putting greater pressure on Israel in relation to the settlements. Those initiatives are considered to be quite important. In politics it is sometimes the case that you have to choose your battles and your tools carefully and not burn the powder off where you may have a feeling that you get the least out of it. And in relation to the various tracks I have outlined here, I have the feeling that one-sided recognition by Denmark will not bring with it what I think the proposers are hoping for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142001	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142002	But I still think it is paradoxical that when Palestine says that it means something to them if we do this and when the progressive forces, which I suppose the government also wants to stand next to in Israel, say the same thing, we obviously have a knowledge that makes us make the opposite decision. This basically corresponds to the fact that the opposition in South Africa had said during apartheid: it is very, very important that you do this and then we did not. Well, what's the rationale? What kind of knowledge does it have to maintain that it is not sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142041-2	There are many factors. However, it can be said that, as far as I remember, 138 countries have recognised Palestine. And that has not led to any change in anything, unfortunately. And the belief that our very existence could be reflected in a different direction, I must admit, I find it hard to have. I believe that other initiatives, such as those I mentioned earlier, could have a greater effect. Unfortunately, Denmark does not stand for the whole world dimension in this area, and I think that if you want to make a difference in relation to the peace negotiations down there at the moment, it is extremely important that the European Union can act more together than it would otherwise be able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142123	There are no more brief comments, so I can thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and give the floor to the first rapporteur. Søren Pind from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142148	This is now the third time that the Enhedslisten has proposed the recognition of a Palestinian state during the current parliamentary term. The Danish Parliament also took a position on the issue when considering B 30 in 2012 and B 52 in 2013. The most interesting thing about the resolution is therefore not the content; it is, on the other hand, that the SF now supports the Enhedslisten's proposal, although it has been poured down the board twice in the past by a foreign minister from the SF in particular. It is interesting, in parentheses, that one's attitude can change when one not only defends the interests of one's own party but speaks on behalf of the whole Kingdom and how it can change back again when one only takes care of one's own narrow self. Like the vast majority of the parliamentary parties, the Left supports a two-state solution in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as part of a final peace agreement. We have also expressed this in the House in the past. So what we are discussing today is not whether we support the establishment of a Palestinian state. We consider whether an independent recognition of Palestine in the Danish Parliament will contribute to a solution to one of the most complex conflicts in the world. Here the position of the Left is that, at best, B 21 is a symbolic policy which does not serve a practical purpose and which will not move decisively on the goalposts of achieving peace in the Middle East. In the worst case scenario, the adoption of B 21 sends a signal to the Palestinians that a peace should not be negotiated with Israel, but with the outside world, including Denmark, which I do not see as conducive to the possibility of a final peace agreement between the two sides of the conflict. In other words, we agree with the government. We hope then that the previous government, after an election, may still agree with us. If Denmark is to have any influence on the conflict, I think there is only one approach, and it is that Denmark, together with the other EU countries, is putting pressure on the parties and actively working to create a basis for a negotiated peace agreement. It may be difficult to accept for a party that would prefer Denmark to leave the EU, but I find it difficult to see how a Danish one will contribute to a solution to the conflict. The Left, therefore, does not support B 21, but instead urges the government to work towards maximum agreement on this issue within the EU circle so that a united EU can push the parties back to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142449	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief remark has been made by Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142457	Thank you to the rapporteur. However, I would like to say that this is no longer a matter of isolation when it is 135 countries or, as the Minister said, 138 countries in the world. That is a significant proportion of all the states in the world that are now supporting this recognition. I guess it's not gonna be a one-time thing. It will be more alone if we continue to take a different view on it. I'd like to read a little from a Danish newspaper. It says: "We continue to believe that there should be a diversity of EU countries. It does not mean a majority, but a plurality and there will be. The moderate forces of Palestine need a pat on their shoulders. This should also be seen as a step towards Hamas. At the same time, a broad circle of countries will now, as in the past, recognise a two-state solution. The rest is in the hands of the Security Council and, in my view, we must take that action, says Søren Pind. ▪ That is what he said when the UN recognised an upgrade of Palestine in the United Nations in 2012, specifically on 26 November. Why has he changed his mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142608	I haven't changed my mind at all. I am fully committed to the upgrading that we discussed at the time. I just do not think that the time has come to take the step towards the creation of an independent Palestinian state. As I have explained in my speech, I believe that we should unite the European Union here on a common position on this issue. There's nothing new about that. That has been the position of the Left throughout the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142635	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142637	I do not think there are many people in this country who can read on the inside, at least in Danish, who cannot see it as a definite shift, when the rapporteur says one moment that it would be good and a pat on the shoulders of Abbas and the moderate forces to recognise Palestine and give them support so that the moderate wing can be strengthened, and when you say that we have to wait until the European Union agrees. Then it means that it will last almost forever. When's the count, sir? Søren Pind that the EU could agree on these things? Or should we confine ourselves to the fact that there is a plethora of states that might do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142721	I understand, sir. Christian Juhl has a close acquaintance with the concept of eternal time in the light of the very long speeches normally made in the Enhedsliste contexts, but I have to say that my definition of the concept of eternal time may not fully live up to Mr. Christian Juhls. I am not going to be wise when the European Union can agree on this, but for us it is an essential thing to strive for a common EU position. That is a position we have taken and we have continued to take that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142752	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142755	After all, no one disagrees that we should strive for a common EU position. After all, everyone agrees that it would be a huge, huge advantage if it could be established and a huge, huge strength in terms of getting the peace process going again. In general, it will be possible for Europe to have a slightly firmer and more united voice to speak to in relation to this conflict. But we all know very well that the EU countries are quite far apart on this issue, and it is not realistic that there should be a united European approach to this issue. That is why it is relevant to ask whether this means that we should be left out of action. Should we allow our decisions to depend on agreement with the European Union? Because then it is true, as has been said before, that this means that we really legitimise that we are not doing anything and are it satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142854	Of course, you can embark on some of the movements that the SF has plunged into, that is to say, changing attitudes continuously and going back and forth, but our approach has been that the Danish Government as its political objective should work to establish a consensus within the EU circle. And then one has to put up with the fact that diplomacy sometimes works slowly. For example, I have. heard Mr. Holger K. Nielsen praises the entire UN system and the way in which conversations are conducted, which may take a long time, but ultimately at some point a result comes out of it. So I don't quite understand. Ultimately, it is best for all parties to reach a solution based on reason, discussion and discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142940	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211142942	Again: I fully agree with that view. But the problem is that there is no sensible conversation anywhere. There is no such thing in the negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israeli Government, and one of the reasons is that there are two very unequal parties. You have one party, which is actually one of the strongest military powers in this world that has occupied the earth and which is an occupying power, and you have the other party that is possessed. Is it not relevant that there should be a more equal or less unequal relationship, as Margot Wallström said, between the two parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143027-2	Now I don't know if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen talks about the original creation of the state of Israel and considers it an occupation, or whether we are talking about the so-called Palestinian territories that Israel retained when attacked. That's why you can use the term that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen uses. I don't know if I recognize that term immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143053	Then that is the next brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Sorry, there have been two brief remarks from Holger K. Nielsen. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143106	Then maybe I can take it away from Mr. Kim. Holger K. Nielsen. Now, of course, I do not know what my colleague would have asked of questions in the third place, but does the Left make the impression that the Palestinians say that they are so looking forward to recognition as a Danish state and that the more middle-seeking, undogmatic forces in Israel are doing the same? So, what is it on the Left that keeps one-sided focus on the fact that it should be a united European Union that recognises a Palestinian state?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143146	That is because, in our view, such a unilateral step would be to take sides in the conflict. That would be to take sides for a party of two parties, who must come together for a solution. And we do not want to destroy that process by taking sides for one side. We see from both sides that there is not a sufficient desire to achieve a result, and there we just have to say that we simply do not think that this is the right way forward so as to take sides for one side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143217	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143218	But when Mr. Søren Pind looks back at the process that has been going on for the past 30, almost 40 years, and Mr. Søren Pind can see that we are not getting any closer to a solution to the conflict. You see an Israel that exceeds all the agreements that have been made. You see obsession and settlements in the area, which are clearly outside what is legal. So what needs to be done again by the Left in order to achieve a solution in the unhappy conflict in the Middle East, which gives birth to a large number of other conflicts in the region?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143259	Well, that legal and illegal stuff, you can keep arguing forever. I have no sympathy for the settlement policy, but I just have to say that the areas where settlements take place are areas that Israel has, because Israel was attacked, not the opposite. That's why I think that's what I noticed to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen says it is a curious terminology, which is also one-sided in its actual content.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. John Dyrby Paulsen as rapporteur for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143339	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by saying that I support everything that the Foreign Minister said in his opening speech, and that also means that the Socialists cannot support the concrete proposal that is now on the table, even though we do have sympathy for the objective set out in the proposal, namely that at some point we see an independent Palestinian state. It is not because the Socialists themselves are pro-Palestinian or pro-Israeli. If we're something, I guess we're pro peace. However, as has been said several times, a very large majority in the Folketing has said that the solution to the conflict is a two-state solution. It also follows logically that the state of Palestine must be approved. However, it is not logical when exactly that should happen, and it is not logical that this should happen precisely with a resolution from the Enhedslisten. After all, it is a conflict that has been fought over decades; a conflict that involves religion, economy, nationalism and probably a great deal of other things. And it is not without reason that the conflict in the Middle East is called the mother of all conflicts. Despite numerous attempts, the world community has failed to find a peace settlement between the parties, and with today's debate it is neither the first nor the last time that we in the Folketing are discussing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That is why I think the debate calls for a certain humility and a certain realism. The conflict is unique in many ways. It is basically about control over land, which is considered sacred by both parties to the conflict, and that is surely an important point in this debate too. If you are to be a little polemical, it certainly makes it more difficult to resolve a conflict when each side of the conflict, with strong forces, claims that they are almost acting on a mandate from our Lord. If I have to say that Denmark sets up more sails than keels if we are to be involved in changing the status quo, then I am sure that this will take place. Generally speaking, it is such a rather strange premise in the debate on Denmark's foreign policy in the media and sometimes here in Parliament that it is about how much and how quickly Denmark's foreign policy can resolve disputes in the world. It has been discussed how we we are and let me say it plainly: what Denmark does and says in such bilateral conflicts will not be decisive for the end of these conflicts, and Danish foreign policy must not and must not be reduced to a race to come first with different reports or opinions. It is absolutely essential that we cooperate with our allies in putting strong political pressure on the parties to the conflict. In relation to the Israel-Palestine conflict, we are doing the best we can through the European Union. This is also very clear from the government base. I think it is worth noting in this context that the EU's new High Representative for Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini's first visit to office went to Israel and Palestine. It is worth noting that Mogherini has put the Israel-Palestine conflict very, very high on its agenda in the European Union. It is worth noting that Mogherini, when she visited Copenhagen recently, said about the Swedish recognition of Palestine that it is not helpful. And I believe that the new High Representative for Foreign Affairs in the European Union should be given the opportunity to work with his bid for the role of the European Union in resolving the conflict, and in this context, unilateral Danish recognition of the state of Palestine at this time seems to be neither timely nor helpful. The main problem for the Palestinians is surely the Israeli occupation: the result of walls, settlements and violence. Violations of basic rights and the daily humiliations to which the lives of the Palestinians are subject are a very big problem. The injustices today do not change a bilateral Danish recognition. In Israel's optics, an independent Palestinian state is about a potential threat to the state of Israel. One may agree or disagree with that, but a Danish recognition of the state of Palestine does not make that fear any less. As I said, it is through the European Union that we have an opportunity to really influence Israel, and that is why I must say that the Socialists cannot support the Enhedslisten and the SF motion for a resolution on bilateral Danish recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143846	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211143850	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur's speech as one long explanation why we should not do something, why we should not act now, why Denmark does not matter and why it does not matter to take a single initiative among the states. It is a rather defaitic attitude towards foreign policy and to bring about a change at all. I would say that if all governments and all government parties on this planet had that attitude, it would look bad in the world. Then there would have been little progress. I don't understand why it's not right now. So, at the moment, the Americans have failed to make a peace process. They've given it up. Kerry said I can't. Is it not time, then, for us to start a development in the European Union where the European Union is called upon to do something or in a group of European countries if it cannot succeed in bringing the whole of the European Union along? Or should we say until then: Well, now we have to see what the High Foreign Minister of the European Union can do about it? Would it not be better, stronger and more visionary for the Danish Government to say: we support a progressive line and therefore we make our contribution, for example. An acknowledgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144006	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144008	Yes, but if sir... Christian Juhl had listened to what the Foreign Minister said, he wanted to know that it was precisely that the Danish Government is working for exactly that solution in the EU context. And if sir... Christian Juhl had listened to what I said, he wanted to know that I think it must be acknowledged that the new High Representative in the European Union has just put this agenda item at the top of his own agenda. And that means that she is actually working for an EU solution in this context, working for pressure on the parties. That was also why the first visit of the High Representative during his term of office went to Israel and Palestine. It has to be acknowledged that this is an expression of priority and priority for this agenda item. Because it is not really a question of whether or not we should follow the Enhedslisten's proposal. It's like if you don't follow Enhedslisten's proposal, the gates of hell open. I don't think it's like that. It must also be said that a number of states, more than 100, have recognised the state of Palestine, and that has not really led to anything yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144104	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144106	I think we should be careful not to say that because 135 states have recognised Palestine, nothing has happened. It could have looked fantastic much worse if they had not done so if they had been completely indifferent and had forgotten Palestine. I think it has been very important that some people have worked, had opinions and so on. I also believe that, in this situation, it is of great importance, not least when Abbas and the negotiating wing in Palestine appeal to the international community for support, appealing for his support, not those who have lost faith in the negotiating line. 44 per cent President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It is a deadly situation just to say: we have to see if the High Representative can solve anything. I think it looks like the Socialists are the cork in the bottle at the moment, which will do nothing and just talk about what has happened now, for too many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144200	I think it's sir. Christian Juhl, who just talks about it and says that recognition by Denmark will solve all problems. It doesn't. But, by the way, I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that it is not the case that it has not moved or that it has been negative that some countries have recognised Palestine. I'd like to sign that. But back to the essential point: when Abbas says as he does, one can ask oneself the question: would Abbas prefer unilateral bilateral Danish recognition or recognition or something similar from the European Union? And that's where I know what Abbas would choose. That is why I am back at my starting point: this is a matter of fulfilling that task through the European Union. And I actually think there are signs that, among other things... the High Representative puts this item very high on the agenda and goes for a solution. I think that Danish support should be given, and I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does. So I'm just calling for us to give this the time it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144250	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144254	When I hear sir... John Dyrby Paulsen is giving this speech, I must say that there is really a great deal of scope among the Social Democrats in Europe. After all, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have indicated that they will vote in favour of recognition. When there was a debate in the British House of Commons, it was Jack Straw, the former British Foreign Minister, who spoke for the Labour Party, and I must confess that his speech was somewhat different from that heard from Mr. John Dyrby Paulsen. He made a very passionate speech which both morally, politically and strategically emphasised the need to go to recognise Palestine as a state. One of his arguments was that it is quite unreasonable for Israel to have a right of veto over the recognition of Palestine, bearing in mind that when Israel was recognised, no one asked the Palestinians. He stressed the importance of strengthening the moderate forces in the peace process. I'd like to know if Mr. Knox is here. John Dyrby Paulsen has a comment on some of those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144409	Yes, I have the comment that in many ways we share the desire for the Palestinians to have an independent state, and that this is done in a sensible and proper context, and preferably quickly. I do not think that, in the situation we are in right now, it would help Denmark to recognise a Palestinian state bilaterally. And, as I said in my speech, it follows logically from the decision we have taken to support a two-state solution that there must be an independent Palestinian state. That is why we must work towards it, and in this context Israel has not done so, I would very much like to stress that it is a right of veto in any area of that relationship. But the point for us is that if this is to have any effect, it has to be in a larger EU context. And there, in fact, I think that there is much more reason for us to be able to put pressure on the European Union. It is much more pressure and much more effective pressure, including on Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144506	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144508	That means that the Socialists will not expect a solution to be found between Israel and the Palestinians before we can recognise Palestine as a state. I find that interesting in itself to clarify. When you talk about EU unity, does that mean among all EU countries? Should there be a formal EU resolution? Mogherini also said that this is not what you can do and what you have to do. This is not an EU matter in that sense. It is the Member States of the European Union separately and then with some joint discussion of it. Do all countries have to join? Is that a necessity? Or how many people need to be involved to make this meaningful?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144549	That's a good question. You can't quantify it. However, I would like to make it very clear that it is not the case that some people necessarily have a right of veto in this context and then, if I may say so, can block any progress and any solution and any action in this area by the European Union. With regard to the first question, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen asked: No, it is not a prerequisite that there should be a peace agreement or a solution between the two parties in order for us to be able to participate in recognition. What is the ultimate goal is a peace settlement, a solution that creates peace in the region, and we have pointed out that it will then be with a two-state solution. And if recognition by the European Union can be part of getting to that goal, yes, I think that that tool should also be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144632	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144637	I have a question which I have also put to the previous rapporteurs, namely whether it does not impress the Socialist rapporteur in this area, that on the one hand it is the case that the Palestinians say that it will mean something to them here, that it will help to strengthen their position and that it will help to strengthen their identity in the negotiations too, what to say, and that on the other hand it is the case that all of us Members of the Folketing have received a letter from a large number of prominent citizens in Israel saying: take now and acknowledge Palestine, it is important for the peace process. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144717	Yes, it does, and I have also read with interest the very long list of names of people, including prominent people and that makes an impression. It makes an impression that there is a direct call to recognise the state of Palestine, and I still believe, as I have said before, that this recognition will be much stronger if we do so within the framework of the European Union and that it will have far more effect than unilateral Danish recognition right now. I do not think it has much effect, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. But yes, it makes a significant impression, I have to say that. I also think that this is something that needs to be followed with interest, even if it is important in relation to the elections that will be held here in Israel in March.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144755	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144756	Following on from that I would like to say that one cannot help wondering when one sees, as has also been mentioned earlier, that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament goes out and says today that they will call on the countries to recognise Palestine; when one sees that the Socialist-led government in Sweden does the same thing, immediately after they joined, where Margot Wallström goes out and says that this is Swedish foreign policy and that they want to recognise Palestine; and when we have the Danish situation where the Social Democrats in Denmark say: we do not believe in that. What's the comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144834	We are not going to follow Sweden in everything. I think there are many points where we disagree. However, with regard to the position of the Danish MEPs on this issue, I think it seems logical in many ways, namely that in the EU context there has not been a vote on it yet; there should be a united position on it next week. And it is very beautiful, following on from what I said in my speech, that that is what is needed. And there is really no contradiction between saying, in the context of the European Union, that we want an EU position on this and saying that this is what we need. We do not need unilateral Danish recognition right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and the next one in the series of speeches is Mr. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211144925	Thank you. It remains the view of the Danish People's Party that the recognition of a non-existent state without a comprehensive peace settlement would be a disadvantage for all parties to the conflict, which has now lasted for nearly 100 years, and in this respect I would like to commend the Prime Minister for her clear statements, both within the EU and within the Nordic Council. For let me just make it clear that this recognition of a new country must never become a feeling, but that it must be based on something factual. Then it is the case that in order for an area to be recognised as a country, it is necessary that it meets certain criteria to which Denmark has always relied. Recognition is not just something you can decide to be nice to a people who feel oppressed. No, before a possible Danish recognition of a new country there are some objective facts to be fulfilled. The most important of these objective facts is that the new country has a well-functioning regime, which in fact also governs the area. It does not have to be the whole territory that the new country requires to hold, but it must necessarily be a significant part of it. That is why national independence movements are actually working towards independence so that they can be recognised as states. I am aware of no historical example of Denmark having recognised a new country until this had de facto left the country to which it had previously been subject. From a recent point of view, Kosovo and South Sudan are examples of the fact that a very substantial part of the territories that they claimed were actually dominated. For this reason, the Swedish outgoing government made a great effort to explain that the Palestinian regime actually controlled territories, as they described it, even though they deliberately did not mention which territories, so as not to run the risk of getting into explaining problems. But this is a very important point to me: if Palestine has become a recognised country, it must necessarily mean that it cannot be occupied. This is because the definition of being able to call itself a country is that the Palestinian Government actually controls a territory. In contrast, the definition of occupation is that the occupying power exercises effective control. So a territory cannot arise as a country in the middle of an occupation, i.e. as an occupied country, which virtually everyone here in the Folketing has decided that Palestine is. I have not, but it has been decided by a large majority in the Folketing. So if official Denmark, on the one hand, considers Palestine an occupied country, on the other hand, one cannot decide to recognise Palestine. It is not linked, it is the opposite of each other, because there is no rulership in that area. With regard to the recognition of Palestine by official Denmark, it is necessary to wait until the moment when the so-called occupation no longer exists. The Palestinians want the best of two worlds; they want recognition as a state and, at the same time, could claim to be an occupied country. But that is not possible, and fortunately that is what I think, as the Prime Minister and her government have realised and acknowledged. For the Danish People's Party, the matter is clear: we would like to see the establishment of a Palestinian state, but only after the parties have negotiated a two-state solution and after all Arab states have recognised Israel and established normal diplomatic relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145315	Thank you. There is one brief comment. No, now there's two, and the first one is from sir. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145320	It is clear that, as Mr. Søren Espersen travels here, is not uninteresting, and I think that is one of the things we can clarify, even when we send this motion for a resolution to committee. The Swedish Government has been very attentive to this, and Margot Wallström wrote in an article in Dagens Nyheter that it is a people who are Palestinian, that there is a government in Palestine and that there is also a territory. In particular, the last part of the territory may be a little unclear, that is clear, but there are precedents, including with regard to Danish recognition policy. Countries with unclear borders have been recognised, such as Croatia in 1992 and later Bosnia, where there were quite, quite unclear situations. This was quite true when Israel was recognized in 1948. There was also a completely unclear situation around the territory, etc. That's why I don't think it's right when Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen says that this is completely against the practice in this area so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145435	But my point is, as I also said, that it is clear that there is a group of people, namely the Palestinian Arabs, who regard themselves as a people, but that alone is not enough to be recognised as a state. I'm sure of that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen agrees with me. I also believe that many people in Corsica, Catalonia and the Basque Country regard themselves as a people, but that does not lead to our recognition of the country because they do not actually hold the territory and do not have full control over the country. I think that is absolutely crucial. Is Gaza possessed? I don't know. There are no Israelis in Gaza. If it's an occupied country, you can argue. What kind of territory do you say you're holding? In the West Bank, the Israeli regime is responsible for the overall decision-making process. Where does that area come from? It was occupied by Jordan after 1948, and then the Jordanian territory was occupied for 19 years before it was then given to the PLO. Well, there's plenty of stuff. I'm sorry, President, I don't think I have any more speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145552	That's right. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145555	Yes, yes, there are many questions that can be asked here. I fully agree with that, but the key here is that there is a people, that there is a government, that there is a territory. There we can then discuss how much we control, but one of the points here is that if you are going to have a two-state solution, you have to get the peace negotiations going. Israel must be pressured to make concessions as well. Israel must be pressured to abandon its settlements, because the more settlements made in the West Bank, especially around Jerusalem, the more difficult it becomes to get a two-state solution, the more difficult it becomes to have a coherent, viable Palestinian state.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145638	We must then decide, I think, whether what we are doing is counterproductive. So, one thing is one hundred percent certain: after Sweden's recognition of Palestine, Sweden is finished as a mediator in the Middle East. The Israelis won't talk to them. So what did they get out of it? Similarly, if the European Union believes that it can push through a peace settlement by recognising Palestine and thus excluding itself from a possible mediation role, then they are wrong. I think the Americans are acting in a way that makes more sense. You say clearly that you are in favour of a two-state solution as you should and that you want to work for it, but you keep in touch. We do not interrupt it, as Sweden did in reality. Sweden has now virtually de facto broken off diplomatic relations with Israel. It's counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145731	Thank you. The next person who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145736	Thank you. I was just about to jump in the chair for a second. I would like to thank Søren Espersen for his admission that this is an obsession. These are new tones from Søren Espersen, and then we can come somewhere along the way when you agree that there is an obsession. I was wondering if Sir... Søren Espersen believes that Denmark was a country under the German occupation. There we were obsessed and could hardly move. We had a pro forma government that could say nothing if the Germans disagreed with it. After all, it is a strange approach to things which probably conceals the fact that the Danish People's Party is most in favour of the extremist, right-wing Israelis who want a Storisrael and do not want a solution to this problem at all, do not want to give the Palestinians their own country. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145824	If that had been our opinion, I would probably have said it in my speech, but on the contrary, I said that we, like most others, think a two-state solution is a real solution to the problem in the Middle East. So what's being said, I can't really accept it. Well, I'm sorry to say that this is bullshit, but I'll have to say it to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, to begin to compare with Denmark's occupation. So, Denmark had been an independent country for probably 700-800 years and was occupied by the Germans. This does not mean that Denmark then ceased to be a country. No, it is precisely those things which we know from the Geneva Conventions that come into force to build on occupied territory. It's not like that. I have not said that I regard Palestine as an occupied country. I said that official Denmark does. I do not necessarily do so, because it is a strange constellation in a situation where no one knows where they are and where they are going to go. I think it is crucial that the first occupation of the West Bank was Jordan's: Jordan occupied the West Bank for 19 years after the Israeli war of independence and was then forced away from it in 1967, after which a piece of occupied territory was given away to a freedom organization, to which there was no entitlement. It has been a strange constellation, so I do not accept the concept of an occupied area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145948	Sir. Christian Juhl, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211145950	If we do not know where the borders of Palestine are, then we do not know where the borders of Israel are. Then we can discuss it for quite some time, whether it is a country or whether they have control of their own borders at all and so on. etc. I have no intention of saying that Israel should not be recognised as a country. I thought it was good that Denmark wasn't until 1948. But is Mr. Søren Espersen does not give a damn that all countries are currently turning their backs on Israel because of its militaristic line? Is Søren Espersen not of the opinion that a peace solution benefits both Israel and Palestine and that we should actually devote some effort to helping them get that peace solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150037	Well, a peace solution will certainly be of great benefit. I think all Israelis and Palestinians agree on that. That's the goal you want to achieve. The only question is how to get there. And that's where I mean when Mr. Christian Juhl talks about the fact that I cannot understand how terrible it is for me that it is not about feeling, as I also said in my speech. It is about what we normally do in Denmark and have done for centuries when we have had to recognise a new country. Then we have done it according to certain criteria. It is, like, repealed now because some people feel sorry for the Palestinians, and we do not want to be involved in that. There's gotta be some sort of order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150116	Thank you. And the provisional last person who has asked for brief comments is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150121	This is a very paradoxical situation, I think. This is, of course, linked to the fact that we look at the situation differently. But it cannot be said that what we are talking about here is because we think we feel sorry for the Palestinians. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the establishment of a new state called Israel in an area where people have lived for thousands of years. We have seen that their territory has become increasingly restricted and we see that the conflict is increasing more and more. It's not gonna be a more peaceful part of the world. So my question is: what does it take for the Danish People's Party to recognise Palestine's right to be a state?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150212	I do not think it is for us to do so. I think it is crucial for the Middle East parties to find out. When, for example, did the Arab countries, the Arab League, recognise Israel? Well, maybe you could start by looking at that and then like getting a reasonable entrance to it. That hasn't happened. Only two of the Arab countries have recognised Israel and established diplomatic relations. That's where I think you should start. I mean, I cannot explain in two seconds the whole situation in the Middle East and how it has come about historically. Perhaps I can refer to my book published in 2007 on Israel's war of independence. There you will be able to read what I think about that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150300	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150302	It is just very brief: is the assessment in the Danish People's Party that Israel has committed attacks on the Palestinian population in Gaza this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150320	As I see it, it was an unhappy war that Israel was waged because of almost daily bombings from Gaza into the areas around Gaza in Sderot and Beer Sheva and Ashkelon etc. It was a tragic end to the conflict that Israel certainly did not want. You did what you could to limit civilian losses to a degree that I do not think any other warring power has ever done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150357	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150406	Thank you. When I show around here in the Parliament hall, I usually tell the students, as it is most often, that once someone said, and I think it's one of our own former party leaders, that if you wanted to tell a secret, you just had to tell it from up here, because then you were absolutely sure it remained secret. It may not be that way today, but I'd like to start by telling a secret, or maybe I should rather call it a confession. Because it is not really a secret, nor does it have to be that we want to vote in favour of the recognition of Palestine, the sooner the better. Radical Left's former party leader Margrethe Vestager already announced in 2011, that we were prepared to recognise the state of Palestine, of course, preferably in the context of a negotiated two-state solution, but also preferably before. The arguments were the same as those put forward today. Recognition will send a strong signal to Israel that they cannot occupy and settle away from a two-state solution and, at the same time, it will encourage the moderate Palestinians to know that their willingness to negotiate is being rewarded. The question then is whether we are prepared to vote in favour of recognition of Palestine here and now, that is. alone with Sweden and on the basis of the narrowest possible majority in the Folketing. To that question is the answer: No. If Denmark is to go alone on such an important foreign policy issue, we believe that this should be done on the basis of a very broad political majority, just as we believe it should require a broad political majority to send Danish soldiers to war. On the other hand, we do not believe that a broad political majority is necessary if recognition is carried out in coordination with a wider circle of EU countries. But even if we do not recognise Palestine today, the day still brings us a step closer to Danish recognition of Palestine. I do not know whether it has been noticed, but this is the first time today that a government in Denmark has announced that it is ready to recognise Palestine before a real two-state solution has been negotiated. This must happen with a group of EU countries, but the message is clear: we will not be waiting for a debate which may never take place and which one of the parties can deliberately speculate about delaying. Today's announcement does not bring us into line with Sweden, which has recognised Palestine, but it brings us into line with France, Spain and Britain. And that is why I hope that the message from today's debate is not that we are voting against recognising Palestine, but that we are ready to recognise Palestine before a truly two-state solution exists. This is an important signal both to Israel and to the Palestinians. We say to Israel: the Palestinians have the right to a state, and you can neither settle nor squander it, and the more you oppose the peace process, and the more you try to fool yourself into a better negotiating position, the more decisions we are willing to make over your head. We say to the Palestinians: you have the right to a state, and even if your counterpart does not meet your attempts to negotiate, you will be rewarded when you choose the negotiating table. That should be the message of today's debate. With those words, I can say that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal to recognise Palestine here and now, but that we welcome the fact that a Danish government has for the first time announced that it is ready to recognise Palestine before, and not only as a result of a negotiated two-state solution, and that we have the expectation that the government will work actively to bring other EU countries on the same path, so that we can recognise Palestine within a reasonable timescale.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150828	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150834	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is having a bit of difficulty with this, since at least in her speech she is expressing that she would like to help recognise a Palestinian state. I think that is a sympathetic view. But I do not understand at all the idea that the situation is not there right now and that it will be going alone. How can it be a singular one when 135 of the world's countries have recognised Palestine? How can it be said that we have common ground with France, Spain and Great Britain when their parliaments have agreed to recognise the Palestinian State? Their governments have not done so; it is absolutely right, but their parliaments have. In addition, the Icelandic Republic also has a non-EU membership of the European Union. Therefore, what is it that makes it to go alone? At any rate, we are currently a minority if we are to be counted with the other countries of the world. We are not going with France, Spain and Great Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211150940	However, the three countries mentioned have not recognised Palestine. You have expressed the view that the Danish Government shares, namely that it is willing to recognise an independent Palestinian state even before a genuinely negotiated two-state solution exists. That is why we are equal to the three countries, but not to Sweden, which has recognised Palestine. When I say that it should not be right now, it has little to do with what is happening right now in Palestine and Israel. Then it is because I do not think that it benefits the process that we go alone both at home and abroad. I think it is such an important decision that I want there to be a broad mandate. We still go away and complain that the VK government and the Danish People's Party sent Danish soldiers on a very narrow majority. That is why I do not think it would be okay if we chose to bring Denmark to an area as important as this, with the narrowest possible majority. I don't think that would be okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151050	Sir. Christian Juhl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151053	I would say that it is a tough diet to compare a bomb voyage against a country, for example. Iraq, with the recognition of a Palestinian state. I just need time to sink. How wide must this circle in the European Union be for Denmark to join? When does the rapporteur think this will happen? At the moment, Abbas, from the negotiating circle of the Palestinians, shouts that he needs extreme support to maintain the confidence of his own people in finding negotiated solutions. Yet we say: the time has not yet come. How the hell does the rapporteur think we can find results in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151137	I do not think that was an inappropriate comparison with the Iraq war. I have heard that many politicians have said that I am quite sure I have heard Mr. Christian Juhl say this is the mother of all conflicts. After all, we are all using this as one of the most important foreign and security policy issues in the world. That's why it doesn't matter. And so, frankly, it would be a mess if we recognised Palestine now and there in six months' time there is an election and then a new government that does not recognise Palestine. It's a mess. If we're gonna send a signal, it's gonna have to be a strong signal. Then I would like to say that if this isn't just domestic politics teasing, sir. Christian Juhl, the Enhedslisten has an interest in speaking it up and telling the message that I have said here, which is very clear, to the Palestinians and to Israel. On the other hand, if you are concerned about talking it down and ensuring that it never reaches those who are the right recipients, then it is because this is just domestic politics. It just isn't for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151247	Then time is more than gone. We shall move on to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed, Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151255	Thank you. What I just overwhelmed was that the argument put forward by Mrs Zenia Stampe, and hence the Radical Left, in order to reject the motion for a resolution, was not that it was against the motion for a resolution. But it was that there was no more for it than there is. And when no one else is in favour of it, Mrs Zenia Stampe thinks that we should oppose it. I understand that the Radical Left, unlike the Minister for Foreign Affairs, thinks it is a good proposal and that it would be right to implement it if it were the case that, for example, it was the case that, in the case of the Soviet Union, it was the Soviet Union which was not a member of the European Union. Some of the bourgeois parties also supported it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151333	It is of course no secret that the government thinks it would be a good idea to recognise Palestine, but we believe that it is a much better idea to do so in cooperation and coordination with a group of EU countries, perhaps not the whole of the European Union, but then a group as a whole, than it is to do it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151355	Sir. Lars Barfoed for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151357	It is possible that I heard what Mrs Zenia Stampe said wrong, but I hear that Mrs Zenia Stampe said that it was crucial that there was a greater majority in this Parliament who would support the proposal, because if there were, one would like to do so. And if that is the point of view, I have to say that there is disagreement between the Radical Left and the Government's Foreign Minister in this matter. But then I would also like to ask you about this because they say that there is now a whole new course that neither of us has noticed. But there is a new course, because now the government will recognise Israel even before there is a negotiated two-state solution. Is it the case that the Radical Left has launched today without the Foreign Policy Name having been involved in the new foreign policy course by the government in relation to Israel, excuse Palestine?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151445	I was just about to say that I hope we will then agree to recognise Israel as an independent state. I would like to elaborate on the two scenarios that I have described from up here. There is, on the one hand, a domestic political scenario that is about whether there is a narrow or a broad majority for such a decision; on the other hand, there is a scenario that is about whether we should go alone with Sweden or whether we should seek wider membership in the European Union. I would say that we may be discussing this, and it is not something the government has discussed, but it was something I would like to take up with my group that could well compromise on the broad consensus in one of the areas, but not at once. We cannot base a proposal to go alone in the European Union on a very narrow majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151541	Time's up. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151547	Thank you. I understand from the radical rapporteur that there has been a very dramatic change today in the foreign policy line. In this context, I would like to ask: on what occasion has the government consulted with the Foreign Policy Committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151603	After all, no decision has yet been taken on recognition. After all, this is something that will happen after we have just consulted on the subject of foreign policy. However, the government has announced today that it will also be prepared to discuss the recognition of Palestine before there is a peace debate. But, of course, on the day it comes, it will come up in Foreign Policy Name.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151638	Sir. Søren Espersen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151640	Well, that's not good enough. The Constitution states that prior to decisions on dramatic changes to Danish foreign policy, the government must consult with Foreign Policy Name. Then we are told now that this has actually happened. I do not know how it was suddenly sneaked into this Chamber, but the main point of the radical rapporteur's speech was this: look, dramatic news has happened. But then I have to say that we have not followed what we normally do in the Folketing and in our entire parliamentary system, namely that we consult with Foreign Policy Names. That hasn't happened. Isn't that a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151721	No, I think you have to be able to distinguish dirt from cinnamon. One thing is to set a line and a course, another is to make decisions that have foreign policy implications. Mr. Søren Espersen well knows that there is a difference, even if he is looking at the constitution right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151742	The next brief remark is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151746	In any case, it can be understood that there are many interesting issues that we can address in the discussion of this resolution. Actually, I look forward to it. But then I would say that I cannot believe that Mrs Zenia Stampe can take herself seriously when she compares sending soldiers to war in Iraq and recognising Palestine. Well, that part of the argument doesn't hold anywhere at all. But the interesting thing here is whether a new policy has been set up and to what extent we can discuss a process for it. How is this gonna be handled? There are, for example: a question that has been asked several times about how many other European countries are going to join before you think it is okay. I have a very specific question. The French Foreign Minister, Fabius, has come up with a proposal for peace negotiations, and after two years there must be recognition of Palestine. Could one imagine such a model, that is to say, setting up a condition, creating a kind of time frame for negotiations, and if nothing happens there, do we acknowledge, if I may say so? What are the possibilities for discussing various variants of what is the substance of Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151904	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151906	I think that is an important and exciting discussion. But I cannot stand here either on behalf of the Radical Left or on behalf of the government and start to go down in concrete scenarios already. But there is no doubt that this is the way we want to go, and we also want to draw the European Union and other EU countries in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151930	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211151932	But what is exciting here is to what extent the Danish Government will be proactive in getting this process going instead of being passive and backward. I do not want to say that the reports here today, even from the rapporteurs of the government parties, have been entirely consistent in this respect. But that's what it is now. I assume that the Radical Left will press for a real process so that, after this resolution's first reading, we can also discuss with the government how we can get things moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152013	Certainly, but I think that we have been proactive in saying that we are ready to recognise Palestine even before a negotiated two-state solution is in place. It's proactive to announce it in advance. However, I look forward to further discussions and also to going into more detail on the possible scenarios that could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152037	The provisional last colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Søren Pind from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152044	I simply do not understand what Mrs Zenia Stampe is saying. Mrs Zenia Stampe says that the Danish Government has made a great, courageous and heroic decision. It has done so by shifting the Danish political course from waiting until a two-state solution was found to become a grip. Now it can be a grip. In other words, it is a new policy if I understand Mrs Zenia Stampe correctly. It is a little strange, moreover, that it is not the Foreign Minister who says so, but the radical rapporteur. Peace with it, that's up to you. Then Mr. Søren Espersen is very logical when Mrs Zenia Stampe uses it as a great defence against the parties who tabled the proposal, when the mention has been informed. Because when you make such great heroic decisions, I would like to mention that it is written in the Constitution that: the Parliament elects from among its members a foreign policy board with which the government consults before any decision of greater foreign policy scope. So now Mrs. Zenia Stampe has to answer. Either what she says is a bloated balloon with no content, or there has been no mention of foreign policy. What's up and down in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152157	But that's just a polemic, for Mr. Knox. Søren Pind can also find a way to distinguish between a political course and political statements and concrete decisions which have foreign policy implications. It will have this policy on the day it becomes a concrete decision, which will also end up in the name of foreign policy. Mr. Søren Pind, too, very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152224	Sir. Søren Pind, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152227	I don't know what I know. It may be that Mrs. Zenia Stampe is better informed than I am, but somebody must feel ridiculous here. Mrs Zenia Stampe stood and replied that the proposal had almost and almost come before us and that a great thing had been done, and now Mrs Zenia Stampe is talking about it. What's up and down here? Has the government changed policy or has the government not changed policy? Have you informed the Foreign Policy Name as you should, or have you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152255	But it's totally wrong. That's what Mr. Søren Pind says that a government would never be able to express itself on foreign policy positions unless Mr. Søren Pind and Mr. Søren Pind. Søren Espersen about the law. Actually, that's what they say, but in a purely polemical attempt to have a funny debate. However, if we go back to the VKO, I think we could also find several foreign policy statements that had not been in the first mention because they had not yet been implemented and turned into concrete decisions with foreign policy implications.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152336	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen for SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152357	In connection with the Swedish Government's decision to recognise Palestine, the Swedish Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, wrote an article in Dagens Nyheter on 30 October. In very clear language, she argues why Sweden has come to that decision. She mentions three points: firstly, it will strengthen the moderate forces of the Palestinians. Secondly, it will make the negotiations less unequal than they are at present, as she says. Thirdly, it will create hope for the future among young Palestinians, who are today being very attracted to extremist forces. She herself asks a question in her article in Dagens Nyheter: Is it too early to make this recognition? Her answer is very clear: no, I think it is too late. Because there is a very, very serious situation in Palestine. There is a completely explosive development in the conflict at the moment. We had the Gaza conflict this summer followed by the conflict at the Temple Mountain. Later we had the Israeli Government's proposal that Gentiles should be second-class citizens of Israel. It blew up so the government can hope it doesn't happen after the elections in Israel. Last of all, the murder of a Palestinian minister yesterday in the West Bank. It is a murder that is likely to result in a violent reaction from the Palestinians. I think we could imagine how the world would have rebelled if an Israeli terrorist had killed an Israeli minister. There has not been much about it here in Denmark and, incidentally, but it will actually be very important that a Palestinian minister was killed yesterday. There is every reason for the negotiations to get under way. This is an important reason why Abbas has asked for this recognition. It is important that we stick to it. This is something the Palestinians have asked for in order to be in a position of strength, in order to be in a less unequal position, as Margot Wallström put it. After all, it is not two equal parties that negotiate with each other. It is a very strong military force that has occupied the West Bank, I would say to Mr. Søren Espersen. This is an obsession with the West Bank, where, on the one hand, there is colonisation of the West Bank with illegal settlements and, on the other, there is a divided population with a leadership which is unfortunately too weak at the moment. And this is largely due to the fact that the moderate negotiating line that Abbas has tried to achieve has not achieved results because Israel did not want to make concessions to him. They continue to settle, which has meant that many Palestinians say that negotiating is no use. Hamas is trying to fish in troubled waters in this area and says that it is no use negotiating: we must have battle, we must have terror. That's why this conflict doesn't get out of place in terms of solutions. There is always one who, in the end, is able to get an act of terrorism going and get a conflict going, so that all the most radical forces on both sides come up. That is why it is so important that the moderate forces of the weak party in particular can be strengthened. That is why it is relevant that a number of countries have taken up the glove that Abbas has thrown up. There are already over 130 countries that have recognised Palestine. Sweden has done so; a number of other European countries have done so a few years ago. At the same time, a number of parliaments are discussing this: the British, the French, the Spanish. And in Ireland this evening, I understand, the Irish Parliament will also say that Palestine must be approved as a state. This means that there is currently a movement in Europe. I think that Denmark should be on the right side to strengthen, among other things. the Swedish Government in saying that it has taken the right step, and among other things that it has taken. in order to help create the common European front, which the Foreign Minister and the government have mentioned here today. I think that this is an interesting discussion that has been going on today. I look forward very much to it being dealt with in committee and, in fact, I think there is a basis for us to have a real discussion with the government about creating a new Danish line. I am a little unsure whether there is a new line, as Mrs Zenia Stampe said, but if there is, we would very much like to enter into a discussion with the government about it and also help influence it, so I look forward to having a constructive debate on this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152939	Yes, please. There are three colleagues who have asked for access to short remarks, and the first is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211152945	Thank you. The countries of Eastern and Central Europe, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen refers to was from the Soviet era. They don't count anywhere. They were Soviet vassal states, and they had no independent foreign policy. It is in a similar way that we are also losing ours, I understand: everything must be done in the European Union. Well, that's another story. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen asks for solutions. Isn't it completely clear to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that Sweden's step was completely unique and completely new and completely surprising? Isn't it, too, sir? Holger K. Nielsen's view that Sweden has now set itself out of all opportunities to become a mediator in this conflict? They have disqualified themselves because Israel no longer wants to talk to them. Is that the answer to that? Is that so, sir? Holger K. Nielsen would like to go with Denmark: that we should also disclaim any possibility of doing something constructive? Former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Per Stig Møller, was working on a good project on the road to peace and some opportunities. If Denmark did this, would we not also completely disqualify ourselves in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153059	Yes, it is always a risk, and I would guess that the Swedish Government has discussed it, but it has then been faced with what the influence is at the moment. That is the argument one hears all the time: it means that you disclaim being able to influence Israel and that this has no constructive effect on Israel. But the current passive policy has had no influence either. In other words, Israel has been able to do what Israel wanted, because it is believed that Europe, that Denmark, that the Western countries ultimately overlook it. I fully agree that this is a lot about the United States, I agree, but I also believe that Europe could do more. That is why it is interesting here that the discussion that is taking place in a number of parliaments in Europe is new. It's come here lately. We have this debate in the Danish Parliament today, which is, in all fact, constructive. Yes, there is no majority in favour of our proposal here, but it is constructive that we can hopefully have a debate with the government on how to adjust Danish policy. In fact, I think that is something new and something quite positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153218	Sir. Søren Espersen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153220	Yes, but now I'm talking about the practicalities, and I disagree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen states that the European Union will be able to play a part in this conflict, because for various reasons the Israelis have little faith in the European Union as a possible mediator. On the other hand, they do so for historical reasons to the Scandinavian countries. I mean, like I said, sir. Per Stig Møller, as Foreign Minister, was actually the author of the plan called 'Roadmap for Peace', and Norway has succeeded in the Oslo agreements in the past. That is why I believe that the Scandinavian countries can actually play a role, but Sweden has put itself out there, and I think it is fair enough that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen admits that if we did the same thing, we would also be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153312	I didn't say that, no, I didn't say that. I didn't say we were done. I have said that there are different ways of doing this, and what I have said is that we are currently in a desperate situation about the negotiation process and that we are currently in a desperate situation in the conflict. That is why we need a new impetus in the negotiations. This is an attempt to kick new life into the negotiations, to get further pressure on the Israeli Government. I'm not saying that that means that we're just sitting outside at all. In fact, I think that in this way we can help to influence differently than we have been able to do in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153352	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153400	I thought it was interesting to hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's arguments for recognising Palestine as an independent state. But I would like to ask if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has given some thought to whether Palestine would today be able to stand unitedly for a policy recognising Israel's right to exist. Is there that unity, that assembly in Palestine today, so that we could count on the free recognition of Israel's right to exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153442	Well, that would be a prerequisite for a two-state solution, that is obvious. And this is, of course, an instrument for relaunching the negotiations in the direction of a two-state solution. Of course Israel must have security and guarantees, but it will be built into the solution that will then have to be negotiated. But the problem right now is that there are no negotiations because the Israeli Government is continuing its settlement policy and because every form of concessions has been sabotaged to the Palestinians. And that is why this is an important step in order, as I said before, to make relations less unequal between the two negotiating partners. That is what the Palestinians have asked for. But there should be no doubt that Israel is also entitled to security. The mother who brings her child to kindergarten in Israel must also be able to do so without being hit in the head by a rocket of course. Everyone has a right to this kind of security, including the Israeli people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153549	Sir. Lars Barfoed, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153551	Well, I fully agree that it must be part of a negotiated two-state solution that the Palestinian State recognises, both formally and effectively, Israel's right to exist in peace within its own borders. But one of the problems of recognising Palestine as a state now would be that we recognise an area and a population that is not organized at all to recognise Israel's right to exist as a whole. It would be neckless deed and cause chaos if the rest of the world did what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen recommends that we do here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153636-2	Listen to this: in 1992 we recognised Croatia. It was the then bourgeois government that did it. So there was absolutely no coherence in Croatia at the time, I can assure you that neither politically nor economically nor in terms of different groups in Croatia. You did it anyway because you thought it was right. So it is nothing new to recognise a country, even though not all the things that Mr. Lars Barfoed mentions. And, as I said, this is an instrument to get the peace negotiations going in order to get the two-state solution that is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153715	The provisional last Member who has asked for access to a brief remark is Mr Beazley. Søren Pind from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153722	Actually, I would've driven sir. Holger K. Nielsen through SF's change from being in government to opposition or support party, or whatever you are. But I got a little more interested in Mrs. Zenia Stampe's announcement, and I really would like to hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's view as former Foreign Minister, for if the Danish Government has chosen the course described by Mrs Zenia Stampe, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen saw that it's a big thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153751	I think it is. But I'd like to discuss it a little more. That is why I think there are grounds for asking some questions in committee. So from this point of view, this proposal that we have tabled and are debating today has had a major impact on the debate here in Denmark and also on the Danish Government's Middle East policy. So I look forward to having these matters discussed in more detail, and I look forward to being able to say that this is a very big change in Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153820	Sir. Søren Pind for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153822	So, sir. In other words, Holger K. Nielsen regards it as a decision of greater foreign policy scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153831	I'm not saying that exactly. I'm saying I must have checked that out. I also found it difficult to get complete clarity about the exact implications of this. We can then discuss this in greater detail in committee. If sir... Søren Pind then believes that there is then a basis for impeachment, we must look at it, and then Mr. Søren Pind takes it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153856	Thank you. No one else has asked for access to short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211153915	The word faith has been used many times in this debate. But what is it that brings peace? Yeah, we don't have a recipe for that. Men have always been warlike and oppressive and imperialist in their conduct, stubborn and with a very weak will to compromise. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a deep-frozen conflict, as we all know, and it has been for many years. Every time you think that a solution is now approaching, a bomb is being dropped or a killing is being committed which leads to further use of violence and the collapse of negotiations. I am choosing today, when we are dealing with this question for the third time, to focus on what we actually agree on here in the Danish Parliament. We agree that a two-state solution is the way forward, and I really believe that we also agree that a lasting peace cannot be achieved until the parties themselves want it and are willing to make the necessary compromises. Today we are acting and discussing on emotions and on faith, because the fact is that none of us knows what will be the best thing to do if a two-state solution is to be implemented. We're talking about instruments. Nor do we know what the international community should be doing to promote a peace process rather than hinder it. Enhedslisten and SF believe that recognition of a state that is not really a state yet is the way forward. It is based on a perception that we do not need clear borders or a clear jurisdiction until we can talk about a state. That is not true, of course, and therefore recognition of Palestine as a state before a negotiated two-state solution is in place will be a symbolic blow in the air. I have no doubt that both the Enhedslisten and the SF sincerely believe that such recognition would be helpful to the peace process, but in the Liberal Alliance we do not share that view. Borders are not necessarily evil, borders can actually help to bring peace, but they must be clearly defined and they must be recognised. I believe that recognition of Palestine as a state without borders is, moreover, an entirely new concept, which we currently know only from another creepy area nearby. At this stage, the parties will turn further away from the negotiating table. The Israeli Government will see it as a provocation to have to be forced into a negotiating table with a state that is not yet there, and the Palestinians will see it as a recognition of methods and terrorist actions which, of course, we cannot accept. The right of peoples to self-determination is absolutely a crucial principle and point of reference in order to find lasting peace solutions. The international community can put forward the negotiating table, fill it with opportunities and scenarios, but the international community cannot force the parties to sit down and eat. Lasting peace must be sought, and lasting peace requires confidence building and a willingness to compromise. The decisive pressure towards real peace negotiations must come from the peoples themselves in relation to their own leaders, it must come from within. None of us in this Chamber today really knows what will happen, no matter what we choose to do. In the Liberal Alliance, we find it both wrong and unacceptable to recognise Palestine before the borders of a two-state solution are established, although we know that everyone sitting in this Chamber wants a two-state solution, and that is why we cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154301	Thank you. For the time being, there is one person who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154308	Soon I have heard it from all parties: we agree on a two-state solution and we will work for a two-state solution, but it should not be right now, and it should not be this initiative; it should not be recognising Palestine as a state. If there are two wings in one country and we want to support one wing because it is they who want to negotiate and find a negotiated peaceful solution... others have given up, because they think that only the military solution is the right one... should we wait and see who gets the majority, or should we try to act and see if we can back the peace-making wing up? If there is the same attitude in the other country, should we just wait and see? What if those who want to solve it by military means in both countries get the majority and start creating a quite incalculable situation in Israel and Palestine, would it not be a huge responsibility to say: No, people must want peace?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154410-2	Well, that's a huge responsibility. You do, and I do, and we have that discussion today. But I would like to protest against the fact that Mr. Christian Juhl says that this is not the right time to work for a two-state solution. Christian Juhl must acknowledge that this is actually what we all work for. We just disagree on what instruments are right to use to promote a process leading to a two-state solution. So right now, at this moment, we are working, albeit from each of our perspectives, for a two-state solution, not against a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154447	Sir. Christian Juhl for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154452	That's interesting. In other words, if you say in words that you are working for it, you are working for it in the rapporteur's view. What concrete actions should we put behind our idea of a two-state solution when the rapporteur says that they themselves should do so, and before we can have any change? I certainly believe that we can do something so that there will be a change, and I do not think that it is a local Israeli-Palestinian problem, whether there will be war or whether we should do what we can to prevent that war. That is why I believe that the premise is that we want to act and not just talk about it. I wonder what the Liberal Alliance has done by actions. I wonder what the Liberal Alliance has done to bring peace down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154533	So I can say that, for my part, I have been down there three times over the last three years in three completely different contexts. In very different contexts, I have met both Palestinians and Israelis. So we can do things our way from each corner. But I would like to ask Mr. Christian Juhl to consider whether Mr. Christian Juhl does not himself assume a huge responsibility, since Christian Juhl cannot know what recognition of Palestine as a state is going to trigger by reactions, despite the fact that there are no limits. It is a responsibility that Christian Juhl must assume, just as we in the Liberal Alliance must assume responsibility for not knowing what the result will be of not recognising a state that is not yet a state.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154618	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154622	Yes, but at the end of the day: it is a responsibility that 135 countries in the world must assume, and it cannot be claimed that it has completely incalculable consequences. Does Mrs Mette Bock not think that the Palestinians and their president are like better at assessing it than we are here in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154646	I think, in general, that the Israelis and Palestinians are better at assessing things than we are when we stand here in peace and quiet on the side wing. So I am fully aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154659	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154701	Yes, but when Mrs Mette Bock says Israelis and Palestinians, she equates like the two, and that is not fair. Israel clearly has an opposite interest in this. For especially the current Israeli government, that is, the government currently sitting there, with Netanyahu as leader, because there must be elections in Israel, where Netanyahu may once again win the elections, has consistently undermined the negotiations. They have consistently opposed a two-state solution, and that is one of the reasons why we are reacting so violently to this. This is why it is a great deal about how the Palestinians receive this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154747	It is also very much about how the Israelis receive this proposal. I am certainly not a great admirer of the present government in Israel, not at all, but at the same time I would like to say that I look with great concern at the radicalisation of Israel as well, and I believe that radicalisation will be achieved by recognising Palestine as a state. I do not think we want to dampen this radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154814	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211154834	It is such a bit of a ritual tribal dance here I think it is once a year that Enhedslisten believes that we should put forward a proposal that we should recognise Palestine. And then I understand that the Socialist People's Party jumps to and co-sponsors when the party is not in government. It will probably be a long time before you expect to be in government again, otherwise you would at least be very busy making a runway so you can again think the opposite of what you meant before, that is, if you were to come back to government and be responsible for the affairs of the country and for how we act in international politics. Because then the SF knows it won't go any further because that's the truth. We are all in favour of a two-state solution, we are in favour of a peaceful solution where Israel and Palestine can exist side by side. It must be a negotiated solution and a solution that both states can vouch for and handle. This means, among other things, that Palestine is a country in which there is an organisation and a collection of things, so that it can actually be managed and managed by that agreement with Israel and the world community. It's not like that now. It is an unfortunate situation, and it is a complex situation in the Middle East in general, and not least in Palestine and in the relationship between Palestine and Israel. And it is therefore naive to believe that a proposal from the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten here in Denmark could make any difference whatsoever. If it makes a difference, it is only the wrong side, because it will draw things in the direction of the negotiations dragging on and it will make it more difficult and complicated to reach a solution. Of course, there must be pressure on both sides in the conflict. Israel must change its settlement policy as part of a negotiated solution, and the Palestinians, for their part, must also organize themselves so that they can actually be a united nation that, including Hamas, recognises Israel's right to exist. Until it is in place, there cannot be a two-state solution, and then I cannot see that it is possible to recognise Palestine when there is no single Palestine that can be recognised because it simply cannot act. And it would also be quite wrong to recognise Palestine unilaterally in a situation where large parts of the country and those exercising authority, namely Gaza, do not recognise Israel's right to exist. That is why it is entirely, quite apart from proposing right now, after Hamas sent rockets over Israel this summer, that we should then reward them with recognising Palestine at this time. It does not lead to anything positive, on the contrary. We must face both challenges: Israel's settlement policy and the problems in Palestine, as I have described them. Then there can be a negotiated two-state solution, and then we can and must recognise Palestine as an independent state. Otherwise, I think it has been an interesting discussion that we have had here today. Not least, I think it was remarkable that the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, was supposed to be the government's spokesperson, who could announce that the government has changed policy significantly, we had to understand that it is now ready to recognise Palestine without a negotiated two-state solution. It was interesting, not least because the Foreign Minister did not announce it at all, but had left it to his party's rapporteur to launch that change in government foreign policy. We'll talk more about that, I think. But the debate has been good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155249	Thank you. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155256	But there is not much new from the Conservatives, except that since 2012 you have changed policy, which I think is significant. The then rapporteur, the former Foreign Minister, said in 2012 in connection with the UN: "We support voting in favour. We have been in a dilemma all along and still are. But every dilemma must end, and Abu Mazen must be supported... so that we do not risk his defeat. It wouldn't look good if he couldn't get western votes, says former Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller (K). I wonder what has actually happened to the Conservatives since Mr. Per Stig Møller said this with a clear message that Abu Mazen, the President of the Palestinians, needed support so that the negotiating-friendly part of the Palestinians had the support of the West. What is the reason for this shift?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155405	First, I understand sir. Christian Juhl, that there was nothing new in what I said compared to what the Conservative People's Party used to say. I don't think there was either. We have the same policy in the area that we have had for a long time. But Mr. Per Stig Møller, as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, spoke on the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution both in 2012 and in 2013; it was B 30 and B 52 and on both occasions Mr. Per Stig Møller expressed the view that the Conservative People's Party did not believe that the time had come to recognise Palestine as an independent state. That, sir. Per Stig Møller, on the other hand, I believe that this is the case. Christian Juhl now puts forward, but as I do not know, the issue of recognition at the UN with observer status is a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155500	Sir. Christian Juhl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155503	The quote is widely known, it is from Politiken on 27 November 2012. Here Per Stig Møller gave his support and said directly that if this project were to succeed, there would be a need for support for the negotiating Palestinians. That is what is interesting, but now the rapporteur says: No, we do not want to support Abu Mazen now; that is not necessary. They must first tell us that they recognise Israel's right to exist. Abu Mazen has done this time and again! There are also leading Israelis who will not recognise Palestine's right to exist as a state. Do we not have to take the chance to see whether negotiations can get under way anyway, or should we just sit back with our arms crossed and do nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155555	Now it's interesting enough that this is going to be a discussion about what Mr. Per Stig Møller meant a few years ago. But I can at least quote what Mr. Per Stig Møller said here in Parliament when we dealt with B 30 in the 2011-12 session about precisely the recognition of Palestine. Sir. Per Stig Møller said: 'Therefore Abbas has all his good will despite the fact that, and I very much appreciate President Abbas's ability to guarantee Israel the security and give Israel the confidence that is the prerequisite for the peace plan and the recognition of Palestine as an independent state. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155634	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211155648	I would just like to say a very brief word of thanks to the SF and the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative to table the motion for a resolution that we have discussed here in the last hour. This is a necessary and important discussion. What has been interesting to me in the debate has, of course, been the various nuances in the perception of what would be wise in relation to the actual conflict. The government says that it wants a strong common ground at EU level before going in and recognising Palestine. Then we have heard from other rapporteurs up here that they are in favour of a two-state solution, but then there will be a great resounding but... which you can interpret yourself. We are doing a great deal of thinking here from the platform about what is right and wrong in terms of recognising Palestine or not. What is important to me in this matter is that Palestine wants to be recognised. There is a clear indication that Palestine wants Denmark to recognise Palestine as a state. That's what it is. Another thing that merely supports this is that we all in this Parliament have received a letter from over 800 prominent people and citizens of Israel who say the same thing. I guess we're talking about moderate citizens of Israel. Progressive people, former ministers, Nobel Prize winners, etc., who say: Acknowledge Palestine because it is important for Israel's security. So Palestine and strong forces in Israel have the same desire. I am impressed by this, so not surprisingly, I fully agree with the ambition to recognise Palestine. To conclude, I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who asks whether it is just because we feel sorry for the Palestinians and whether it is not a feeling and who says that there is at least a desire on the part of the Danish People's Party to be more factual and that there should be no feeling: I sympathise with the Palestinians and I feel sorry for the Palestinians. I believe that it made a huge impression on everyone who experienced the attacks that took place in Gaza over the summer. It was the world's largest open prison we saw in full action. At the same time, the Danish People's Party says that what happened this summer was an expression that the state of Israel tried to avoid civilian losses in the first place. But today, when we can still see pictures of a completely destroyed Gaza, and when we look at the death figures in Gaza compared to the death figures in Israel, it creates a picture of a totally unequal partner. That is why I am pleased that the SF and Enhedslisten have taken this initiative and have tabled this motion for a resolution. I hope that makes an impression on the government, and I also sense that there is a little movement. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160004	Thank you. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160010	I do not want to go into that discussion because I think it is clear that if the aim was to kill a lot of Palestinians, it could have been done in 20 minutes if you wanted to. You really did what you could, but leave it alone. When Mr. Uffe Elbæk talks about saying yes to this because it wants the Palestinians, I would say it wants the Catalans too, and the Corsicans want it too, it wants the Basques, and it wants them in Western Sahara. Surely we cannot take into account what individual freedom movements want and then act with diplomatic recognition. It's not worthy of a state. That's what I mean by feeling. It's not really because I can't feel sorry for any people. I'm just saying that's not the way we act politically in Denmark and make foreign policy, because it's really the screw without end. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160108	That discussion has already taken place. After all, there are four criteria for recognising a state. One is that there is a permanent population; the other is that there is a defined territory; the third is that there is a government; and the fourth is that the government is able to conclude agreements with other countries. Then I know that the Danish People's Party believes that it is possible to question whether there is a defined territory, but all of these four criteria are appropriate to the situation around Palestine, so I think it is absolutely right to recognise Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160146	Sir. Søren Espersen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160148	The other thing I'd like to ask, sir. Uffe Elbæk (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. Which of the two could make a difference and have an opportunity to talk to both parties and possibly arrive at something sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160214	In relation to a specific negotiating situation, it is certain that the person who has to negotiate would like to be recognised by both parties, in other words, accepted by both parties. In this specific situation, it may be that you do not want a Margot Wahlström, but rather a Martin Lidegaard. That may be so, but it does not change the fact that the consequence of Margot Wahlström and the Swedish Government having done what they have now done, namely to recognise Palestine, can have a tremendous impact on the way in which, moreover, Israel and Palestine will act in this matter. So I think that the decision that Sweden has taken was the decision that Denmark should have taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211160302	I would like to start by thanking you for your contributions to the debate. As someone said before, this has been a rather interesting debate. It is more than 20 years since the Oslo agreements were signed. They were to be a clue to the negotiations between Israel and Palestine, and they created great enthusiasm at the time, but the dreams died along the way. The sketches had been designed many years before by the United Nations by virtue of the 1967 borders, which have since been seen as the starting point for a possible border migration. The issue of recognition has marked the debate in Denmark and many other countries for very, very many years, and it has also been about how to achieve a peaceful and just solution that guarantees equal rights and security for all in both Israel and Palestine. We have no illusions that recognition will mean that the conflict will have a definitive solution. We believe that it can make a contribution along the way to making things move in the right direction, and that contribution is particularly important at the moment. We have also tabled this motion for a resolution to send an important signal to Israel to change course for Israel's own sake. The situation in Palestine is explosive right now, as others have said, not only in Palestine but also in Israel. There is an extremely high risk that this will end badly if the international community does not intervene. We have also put forward the proposal to raise the important debate on the consequences of the Israeli settler offensive, the occupation of the West Bank, the blockade against Gaza, the offensive in Jerusalem and the great unresolved refugee problem, not least in the wake of the Israeli bomb offensive in Gaza this summer. None of the problems are new, and they have all been discussed over and over again in the United Nations. In the wake of the war in Gaza, there has been, not least in Europe, an increased popular protest against Israel's aggressive policy. Now there must be action behind the airy political words that have been sounding for far too long. After the failure of the United States with the collapse of John Kerry's negotiations, it is time to do something again. And that's our job. In the Danish Parliament we have received a request from no less than 660 prominent Israeli citizens who appeal to the Danish Parliament to recognise the state of Palestine because it is in the interests of Israel. It is professors and a former chairman of the Knesset, former ministers, organizationalists, former security officers and peace activists who have all realised that Israel, with its current policy, is isolating itself from the rest of the world. As the author and former chairman of the Knesset, Avraham Burg, wrote in Politiken the other day: I beseech Prime Minister Helle Thorning Schmidt, the Danish government and the entire Danish people, whom I consider my friends, not to be misled and instead be a friend of both Israel and Palestine in the struggle for peace. Israel does not need friends who exempt it from responsibility. Israel needs friends who will support the recognition of Palestine as a state. ▪ The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already announced through various media that the Danish side will not vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. It is not a question of political will, they say, but of timing. But when could there be a better timing than now? We're used to hearing the government say they won't go alone. But it doesn't last anymore. If we recognise Palestine today, we will not go alone, but will put ourselves in the slipstream of a number of other EU Member States that have recognised Palestine during the autumn: Sweden, France, Great Britain, Spain, Poland, Hungary and Ireland. All over the world, 135 countries have recognised Palestine, so we will have a little difficulty feeling alone if we also recognise the state of Palestine. There are at least five good reasons for recognising an independent Palestine. There will be coherence in our policy. For many years Denmark has been working for two states, Israel and Palestine, and this resolution will point in the same direction. Denmark has made an almost acknowledgment by granting Palestine a number of embassy rights. Next week it will be 2 years since the UN General Assembly recognised Palestine as a member of the UN at stage 2. It provides for participation in the UN committees and for cases to be brought before international courts. Recognition is more than symbolic politics. Secondly, recognition is a natural product of the millions of kroner that Denmark has invested in a solution. The money has benefited many, but the real gain comes when there is a political return in terms of peace negotiations and a peace settlement. Yes, without political results, we would risk that investment would be wasted; and developments could run backwards if there were no negotiations now. Thirdly, if Denmark were not to take this initiative, who would? If not Europe, then who would? The United States has abandoned the negotiations; Israel and Palestine are not in a position to resolve the conflicts themselves. If we do not take up the glove and create a situation in which both parties can see new opportunities, we will risk further destabilisation, more violence and abandonment, especially among young people. Recognition will strengthen the EU's position in the negotiations; recognition will strengthen the peace negotiations. Fourthly, recognition is against the occupation, not against Israel. Recognition will mark the desire to start from the borders before 1967 and is thus an acceptance of Israel. It, in other words recognition, highlights the criticism of the occupation of the West Bank and the illegal occupation. It highlights the criticism of the blockade against Gaza, where daily life cannot be made to work. This view is shared by a great many Israelis, which is why it is a matter not only of taking the Palestinians into account, but also of taking both peoples into account. Fifthly, recognition will strengthen the alternative to escalating violence. This will be support for President Abbas's insistence on diplomatic solutions in the middle of a situation where 44 per cent of the population live. the Palestinians in the occupied territories consider a violent solution to be the only option on the road to an independent Palestine. To wait is to play high games with peace in Israel and Palestine; to wait is to turn your back on those who want a negotiated solution. Desmond Tutu, who I think you all know, says it this way: If you're neutral in a situation of injustice, you've chosen the side of the oppressor. If an elephant has foot on the mouse's tail, the mouse will not appreciate your neutrality very much. Some of the rapporteurs today should reflect on this when they say: this is not the time to act. Secretary of State: Time is not for misunderstood neutrality, which supports the elephant; the time is for active action against injustice. Although Denmark is small, although Denmark can sometimes be spoken down, as some do, it is often the drop that makes the glass float over. Therefore, a decision in Denmark can also have an impact on a decision in the European Union, which can also have an impact on the start of negotiations. But thank you for the many contributions. I look forward to the work of the committee and to seeing whether there is real action behind the nice words, at least on the part of the government. It will, of course, become apparent if we can then formulate a sharper and clearer policy which can lead to action.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161131	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161134	The rapporteur says that action must now be taken. But recognizing Palestine is not an act. An act would be to try everything you could to broker it would be action. That's just such a barren thing. I think it is important to say: what can we actually do? I mean, all we can do is offer our assistance to the two sides where we stand well in both places. So, until Sweden's announcement Scandinavia has stood amazingly well as someone you would actually talk to, both in Israel and in Palestine; not in the same way as in the United States, but as some who could actually do something. As I said earlier, it was our former Foreign Minister, sir. Per Stig Møller, who was the master of the Road Map for Peace, and it was, after all, a start. The Oslo agreements were concluded with the Norwegian Government. And I would like to ask again, as I have asked earlier: who would be able to mediate best now and talk to both parties • Denmark's Foreign Minister or Sweden's Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161242	Thank you. Now we need to find out if recognizing is something that doesn't matter or something important. Sir. Søren Espersen has just spent quite a lot of his speaking time saying that this was so important that it should have been in foreign policy mention before it was discussed here. If it is not very important, why the hell should it be in Foreign Policy? As regards whom the Israelis and Palestinians will point out as negotiators, I would like to say that there are some countries that have a great deal of negotiating experience. Norway, in particular, succeeded in placing itself as a central helper for the Oslo agreements, an impressive piece of work by Norway. Norway has done so in a number of other situations. I have pointed out in the past that, unfortunately, Denmark does not yet have the competence for such initiatives. We need a peace and conflict resolution institute which could develop the necessary people as a background group for the government. And there I would say: I dream that there will be competent people like for example. Those in Oslo who are currently helping the Colombians to find peace with the FARC.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161346	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161349	In other words, the decision to recognise Palestine is important in the sense that it will research our ability to do anything more. That way, it's important. If there is a change in Denmark's foreign policy, i.e. by recognising Palestine, then at the same time you have renounced any possibility of mediation in that conflict. It's over. And I'm going to eat what it's supposed to be of old straw hats that Sweden's Foreign Minister has researched the possibility that Sweden's government is now out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161423	Well, I've got an old straw hat hanging around, so we can try it out. I would say that, in the situation where we have recommended and where the Israelis and Palestinians have accepted the United States, although there is certainly no country that stands on Israel's side as much as the United States, both sides have nevertheless accepted that Kerry was the negotiating leader and tried to find a solution. This means, of course, that people with attitudes can also communicate negotiations, can help to find solutions. Kerry did not succeed, but he was recognised as a negotiator. So why should it not be possible with skilled Danish dealers if we have some who have the capacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161503	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161521	The debate is open. It's the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211161540	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has proposed that the government be required to ensure that important documents on the basis of which draft laws or resolutions are based in the Folketing are available in Danish. First of all, let me stress that the government attaches great importance to good cooperation with the Folketing. Parliament must, of course, have as full a basis as possible when decisions are to be taken in all areas. This is only natural and a prerequisite for the exercise of our democracy. It must also be a reasonable requirement for members of the Folketing to be able to carry out their work without dealing with complicated texts in another language. Of course, this also applies in the field of foreign policy, where it is in the government's own interests that there is the broadest possible parliamentary basis for decisions, for example. contribute to international operations. That is why the government puts a great deal of work into the resolutions submitted to the Folketing as the basis for a number of key decisions in the field of foreign policy. Motions for resolutions shall be drawn up which shall describe as fully as possible the purpose, basis and framework for Denmark's participation in international operations and thus constitute the mandate for participation. The description usually gives the background to the effort, the basis of international law, the possible timeframe for a Danish contribution and the composition of it, as well as the expected financial scope and any risks associated with the effort. The motion for a resolution also contains as far as possible details of the underlying international documents, including UN Security Council resolutions. In addition, with the committee procedure prior to the adoption by the Danish Parliament of the government's motion for a resolution, the members of the Folketing are also given ample opportunity to ask further questions about the basis for the decision. In the ongoing cooperation there is also an understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the International Secretariat of the Danish Parliament that in some cases, depending on the situation, assistance may be provided in the form of summary, oral or written unofficial translations, explanations of individual terms, documents or parts thereof at the request of one or more members of parliament. All in all, the government goes a long way to ensure that the members of the Folketing in Danish have the right conditions for making their decisions, including in the field of foreign policy. However, recent years' decisions on Denmark's participation in international operations, listed in the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, have also shown that situations arise where there may be a need to be able to consult with, for example, a short period of time. Foreign Policy Name and make decisions in the Parliamentary Assembly. This has been absolutely crucial for Denmark's ability to act quickly and with full force on important foreign policy issues. I myself have, on several occasions, both in government and in opposition, seen the value of having a parliamentary system that ensures both a thorough parliamentary test of our decision-making basis and, at the same time, enables us to back up international operations fully and early, even when the situation on earth suggests that our contribution is mobilised very quickly. This has been of great importance, for example. during interventions in Libya and Mali, in relation to Syria and most recently in relation to the deployment of Danish F-16 aircraft to combat ISIL. The quick help, for example. As Gaddafi's tanks approached Benghazi, and as armed Islamists from northern Mali stood close to the capital Bamako, they have contributed to Denmark's reputation as an operationally reliable and highly valued contributor, even though the Danish contributions in their size are often not comparable with other major countries' contributions. Translation of UN resolutions from English to Danish will, depending on the length of the text, of course, for a professional translator could easily take 1 week or longer, and it must be noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have its own professional translation capacity from English to Danish. That is to say, if, for example, The UN resolutions must be translated by the government, we would have to buy the provision of a state-authorized translator with expertise in international law, since such documents can be quite demanding to have translated correctly. In addition, additional time is available for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out the rectification of technical or legal terms. And such a process could be quite time-consuming, since the quality of the material translated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Danish Parliament is obviously expected to be in order. Moreover, when it comes to the translation of UN resolutions, it will also be the case that only the versions of the six official languages will be authoritative. Despite the fact that, as a starting point, I therefore have a great understanding of Enhedslisten's wish, I believe that we should be very careful in laying down strict rules for the translation of various documents into the Danish Parliament, as this could reduce the speed and power with which we can act. On the other hand, the Folketing must be able to insist that an adequate decision-making basis be put forward in Danish in the Parliamentary Chamber, which gives the members of the Folketing a thorough insight into the operation for which support is sought and with the possibility of inquiring about the submitted basis. This is, in the opinion of the government, very much the case today. Against this background, the Government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162135	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162140	Thank you for the Minister's statement. I'd say we've been discussing this for a long time. First I asked the Minister, and then I asked the Bureau, and now I ask Parliament for support that we get some fairly clear decision on this. It is quite unacceptable, both democratically and in terms of work, that the documents I mention cannot be obtained. There are quite a few documents involved. These are, in particular, UN resolutions, which we shall have in good time. We don't get them in the situation, we get them at least 14 days, sometimes a year earlier. Then it's a few pieces of paper about that appraisal from the GGGI case, which was important at the time to have in hand. We have also had a single situation in which we have discussed the situation in Tibet, where we have been denied a translation. If this is to work properly and democratically, then the UN resolutions that form the basis of a bomb voyage or other must be in hand. I would like to ask something: if we cannot get them in Danish, how on earth can a minister feel sure that he has the right text in his hand when he makes decisions and recommends that we do something? How on earth can the ministry work if they don't have a translation? I don't understand that at all. There's gotta be somewhere where you need it. It's not always a minister who went to college.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162312	As I said, resolutions in the UN system operate in such a way that it is the six official languages that constitute the authoritative legal text. In other words, it is also the language versions, if I may say so, of the six versions in the six languages which constitute the legal basis, no matter how much we had to translate into Danish. That is why, in my work, it is of course the typical English-language texts that form the basis of my decisions as well. Having said that, however, I hope that my speech has also shown that I think it is very important that there is material in the Danish language which fully explains what, for example, is going to happen. the legal basis or the basis of international law for a given intervention is, and it is, of course, my ministry's task to produce it to the Folketing in a sufficiently clear and precise form. But it is something quite different from having to translate x number of UN resolutions within a very short period of time, with the risk it entails, moreover, that it may be difficult to find exactly the legal, precise wording, in relation to what is then the right document in English, French, or whatever it may be, on the part of the United Nations. That is why we want to warn against having what to say about very strict rules about what is to be available and not available, but that we are trying to make a good basis for decision in Danish. If there are special wishes, we have had a tradition of trying to reach it, but it just cannot be done always.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162440	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162445	Thank you. But what if a minister says: I would like to know for myself, I would not just believe that the administration has a position on this? Or what if I say so? I cannot take a position on a bombing mission if I do not have the UN resolution to which reference is made, because I would like to know what the UN has authorised and what they have not authorised. Then I would say that you can of course have the arrogant, academic • and I do not suspect the minister of that, but there are people who have the approach to what is about that if you do not speak English, you should not sit in the Folketing. What about these people, for example? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I don't understand why we can't get these papers in Danish. I do not understand why we can get tons of papers down from Brussels translated into Danish, but we cannot have a few simple UN resolutions put on our table and in the language we can handle properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162544	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162545	There is a huge difference in the way in which these documents are dealt with and have a tradition of dealing with them with legal validity in the European Union and the United Nations respectively. With us in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is the English-language versions which are the basis of the Foreign Minister, and if you have problems of understanding as a minister, if I may say so, you will of course have that clarified. This is often the case, however, because you cannot always read all the documents yourself, and then you get a precise Danish record of what the basic meaning of the resolution in question is. It's about a lot of things. This is exactly the same thing we do in relation to the Folketing. It is, in fact, a very, very large service, I think, as Minister, that I myself should not plow through the often very long resolutions, which are legal language and very difficult, but can have the opportunity to read a shorter Danish version. This is also the service we are trying to provide to the Danish Parliament, and I think this is the best service you can give if what you want is to promote that as many as possible, regardless of language and academic knowledge, can sit in this Parliament and exert a direct and active influence on the decisions we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162657	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Sir. Søren Pind as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162714	Sir. Unfortunately, Flemming Damgaard Larsen could not be here today, so I have been entrusted with this matter. The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten is intended to ensure that important documents on the basis of which legislative proposals and resolutions are based in the Folketing are translated into Danish. The language of the Danish Parliament is Danish; it applies to the debates, and it applies to the documents which form the basis of the debates, and this applies in general to the legislative work as such. It is important for everyone to be able to take part in parliamentary work, including when it comes to difficult technical documents. It is also important for popular participation in the political debate. It must never be a democratic problem that ordinary people cannot understand the essential documents underlying their understanding and attitude on political issues. Then we come to the issue of the essentials. That is why, in the course of the committee's work, the Left would like to know what is meant by essential documents. We in the Left, as in the case of the Chinese verbal note, can rely on the fact that an important document is when the Bureau, acting unanimously, addresses the government and asks for a document to be translated. In these cases, we believe that a document is essential and should therefore be translated. On the other hand, we also understand the concerns that the Foreign Minister has listed, and we believe that this would be a fine definition in relation to the essentiality criterion that the Enhedslisten proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162902	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162904	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that he believes that if a majority or a unanimous Bureau says yes to translating, one can get translated, but if there is no majority or consensus in the Bureau, one cannot get translated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162918	That's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162921	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162926	This means that if a minority does not understand what is happening in the Folketing, it does not really matter to the majority, and then it does not matter whether it can be made available. In other words, it could have disastrous consequences if the majority felt that this should be passed on to them, regardless of whether the minority understood it or not, and a possible majority, if one understood it, was present.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211162949	No, that means that when a unanimous Bureau, as we saw in a case, makes representations to the government to have something translated, the government should not be able to override that request, but that at the same time we accept that there are the concerns which the Minister for Foreign Affairs otherwise listed. And that's why it's a balance. My view on this matter is that, as a rule, a minority will be able to take action in relation to the Bureau if the matter is substantial enough, and it is the Enhedslisten himself who has suggested that it was essential documents that should be translated, not all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163019	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. John Dyrby Paulsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163028	Thank you, President. In the absence of our usual rapporteur in this area, sir. Ole Hækkerup, I have been asked to make the following comments: With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants important documents on the basis of which legislative proposals or resolutions are based to be available in Danish. In the comments to the proposal, the Enhedslist refers to various UN resolutions. It sounds quite right that everything should be in Danish, and it is also important to establish that legislative and resolution proposals are in Danish, and that questions and answers here in Things are of course also in Danish. The fact that we are unable to support the proposal is partly due to the fact that the legally binding texts of a UN resolution are in one of the six recognised UN languages, and that is not one of the six. Although we are therefore making a Danish translation of a UN resolution, the text we are bound by will, for example, be: Whether we join a UN operation is not the Danish text, but the text in one of the official languages. And that is why it would be right for a Danish government to deal with the binding text in the original language. This does not change the fact that all members of the Folketing must of course be able to ask questions in Danish and get answers to Danish, and that proposals are of course in Danish. Then it takes time to make a translation and, as the Foreign Minister has explained, there are situations where we need to be able to act quickly and where the time is simply not available to make the translation. Social democracy believes that we should be part of an international cooperation as something quite natural, but it sometimes happens in something other than Danish, where important documents are available in anything other than Danish and cannot be translated if you have to make a decision here in the Tinget. And we do not believe that we should put ourselves in the way of full and rapid participation in international cooperation when required. Against this background, I must reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163222	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163225	I would like to know whether the old Labour Party believes that it should be the case that, in future, an ordinary unskilled worker coming to parliament cannot fully participate in the discussion about going to war or for that matter becoming a minister. I myself would like to say that if I ever became a minister, whatever is theoretical, but nevertheless, I would insist on having a translation of UN resolutions that provides a basis for something, especially if I were a foreign minister and were to send people into dangerous missions. Is it the opinion of the Labour Party, in other words the Social Democrats, that there should be that difference, so that one should be practically a student and have a higher education and good language skills in order to sit in a Parliament and be able to take a proper position on matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163314	May I not begin by saying just soberly that the fact that Mr. Christian Juhl finds that there are some documents, sir. Christian Juhl would have liked to have translated, of course in no way prevented Mr. Christian Juhl in taking part in any debates in this Parliament Hall or elsewhere. So, frankly, I do not think that this is a problem in this context. Nor do I believe that good comrades in the workers' movement will be prevented from taking part in a debate. And then it has to be said that it is also the case that when you make resolutions and deal with them in this Chamber, they have been drawn up in Danish, and there is also a description of the documents in question, including the UN documents which form the basis for the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163358	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163400	I'm sorry to say this, but the last one is totally wrong. In any case, in situations where we were going to Mali and Central Africa and Iraq, I asked for the UN resolution, to which direct reference was made, in Danish. I couldn't have. It couldn't be done. In other words, I could not even have a review of them. I couldn't even get a translation of them. I couldn't even get an unauthorized translation of them when I was in the situation. How on earth can we say with a clear conscience: I understand what this is all about and I am voting in complete clarity? That is the problem, let alone the ordinary people outside Christiansborg who want to interfere in the political process. Where is this going to end if it's all going to be in English or any of the other six languages?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163448	But the point is, sir. Christian Juhl, that it wasn't all in English. It is true that some documents were in English in this context and were not fully translated, but they were, of course, described in the motion for a resolution and the basis for the resolution described what was in it. But it is clear that there should not be an authorised translation text if this is to take place very quickly. Then there is simply no time to make it. And then, in some contexts, we must base ourselves on the international version, if I may say so, in one of the six UN languages, if it is a UN document. Then one must base oneself on it, and it must be possible in this Chamber to make a decision when it has to be done quickly, even if there is not a full translation of all the documents on which it is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163528	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163535	Thank you. The proposal here from the Enhedslisten to ensure parliamentary access to important documents in Danish is a proposal which the Danish People's Party supports and intends to vote in favour of, because what is this proposal in substance about? It is a question of whether one can be a member of the Folketing if one does not speak or understand languages other than Danish. It must, of course, be the case that you must be able to do your job fully in the Folketing and, in line with your colleagues, be able to do your job here in our Parliament, even if the only language you master is Danish. I think we all agree that it is a huge advantage to be able to speak and understand foreign languages and, of course, not least a main language such as English, and fortunately more and more people in Denmark are getting better and better at speaking English. But one thing is to be able to do it in London when you have to order a beer at a pub or ask for a way to Big Ben or to talk about weather and wind with the natives; another is to have to deal with languagely often difficult documents and feel so secure in the text that you can help legislate on the text. I think that in their comments on the proposal, the authors of the proposals point precisely to a number of English-language documents to which we Members have had to refer during this parliamentary term alone, and that in many cases it has been about important and crucial issues such as Danish military participation in missions outside the borders of Denmark, all containing linguistically complicated questions of international law and, in any case, documents which the government has refused to translate, even if they have been asked to do so. I can't do that. It must be the case that if a rapporteur does not feel able to read and understand the foreign text prior to an important decision and asks the Foreign Minister for a translation or perhaps a full summary, it must be done. While I was a member of the Bureau of the Danish Parliament, I was involved in deciding that if a member of a foreign committee asked for interpreting assistance on the journey, that assistance would, of course, be granted. This is now, as far as I know, applicable to the Parliament's travels as a matter of course. It should also be a matter of course for the government to provide the same service if it wishes, if it expects the Folketing to be able to deal with the government's legislative and decision-making proposals with insight. It must simply always be the case that anyone elected to the Folketing must be able to do his or her job as a parliamentarian without being able to handle texts in a foreign language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211163830	The Radical Left, like the Bureau, agrees that information to members of parliament should, as a general rule, be available in Danish. It must be the case that we can debate in Danish, ask questions in Danish and, moreover, base ourselves primarily on material in Danish. However, as we have also noted in the Bureau when we discussed the same matter, there are special situations, among others. in the Political Affairs Committee, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the European Committee, where documents are often included in foreign languages, especially English, in particular in the case of official documents of the United Nations Security Council, which are only drawn up in the six official languages. In this connection, the President of the Danish Parliament, on behalf of the Bureau, contacted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as to whether it was possible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist the administration of the Danish Parliament when there was and is a need for the preparation of unofficial documents. In this way, we have received confirmation that it would be happy to assist the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of specific requests from Members of Parliament to the Bureau. That is why I also believe, and would like to say on behalf of the Radical Left, that it would be a problem to lay down strict rules that all or various documents should be translated for the Folketing, because it could delay the work, but also because there is this possibility that, if the document is not available in Danish or can be translated into a Danish legal act, one can say, then one can have existing translations or summaries to base oneself on. Therefore, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal from the Enhedslisten, which in the basic substance of course is what we are working for, namely that we can debate in Danish and from Danish information.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164114	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164117	I feel that it is a little difficult to explain what this is really about. I could think of an example which was that I said to the rapporteur: what if the rapporteur had to understand a text in Russian or Chinese and there was no translation into Danish? Because we have a problem with that, at least with Chinese, because there we have a document that we have not been able to translate; we can get it in Chinese and English. When I have to decide whether a bomber should go down and act in another country and risk killing people, I always ask: what has the UN said about that? The government sometimes does, and it is used as a starting point. When the government then interprets the UN resolution and I have to sit and study complex matters of international law in English, it's hard enough in Danish, but it gets to be so, in English must distinguish between the manager, peacekeeper and peacekeeper forces, which are three very different things, is it a reasonable working condition that I need four to five times as much time to do it? I'm glad to admit that I'm a bad English guy. There are many who are gloating and say: Well, you can easily the English you need to be able to. Yes, I can, when I have to talk to an Englishman on the street, but I can't do that when I have to read about complicated international law. I believe that the Folketing must be one thing for the people, where we can all be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164254	I fully agree with the latter. But it is the case, whether a document is available in Russian, English, French or any other language, that here in the Folketing we have our basis for decision based on a Danish text, and we also have the opportunity to ask questions in Danish for clarification of nuances. Even if we have an authorised translation of a text, there may in any case be a need to ask questions about how to interpret it. That is why I believe that the problem that has been raised here also applies to authorised texts, because it will always be up to an interpretation. That is why it can be said that the most important instrument that we, as Members of Parliament, have is that we can ask questions, including the interpretation of individual words, whatever their language, in the documents on which our decisions must be based.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164404	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164406	I have asked questions in every case where we have sent the military outside the country's borders, and that question was in every case: can I have a Danish translation of this? And I have received answers to all the questions I have asked. The answer has been no, nothing more. I have asked: Can I get an unauthorized translation? The answer has been no. That is why I have raised this issue, even when the Bureau will not give it the opportunity. Where is the opportunity to participate in the political debate for people outside the Castle, if this is not translated into Danish, for example. UN resolutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164448	I mean, this isn't gonna turn into a dispute over what the Bureau has actually said. However, it is at least the case that an agreement has been made between the Bureau and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, in the case of specific requests from one or more members of parliament, assistance may be provided to make either summaries or unofficial translations. And that's why I expect it to get its reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164532	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164543	In many ways it is an important discussion which Enhedslisten raises with this motion for a resolution, and I fully share the basic view that the debates here in the Danish Parliament must of course take place in Danish; of course there must be Danish-language texts which can form the basis for our debates here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and that is also the case. Then it is true that there may be individual situations where it is difficult, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made this very clear. One of the basic problems is that it is not possible to have a completely authorized translation of a text in which the authorised text is in some specific languages. It is therefore a little difficult sometimes, and it is not always the case, if I may say so, that one becomes more enlightened when one gets the Danish translation. On the contrary, the misunderstandings can be sneaked into a lot of political discussions about how a particular word is translated when it is translated from English to Danish. That is why I believe that in some cases we must respect the fact that the language that has been negotiated and which is the authorised language for the act or agreement in question or the document in question is the one on which we are based. I certainly think that there should be the possibility of help being given to translations, and perhaps the Bureau could also discuss how parties themselves can have the means to translate such texts, etc. The problem is that if you go on using authorized translations, you get this whole very, very difficult discussion and there may be cases where it is not appropriate. However, I fully share the view that we must, of course, do so as far as possible, and that is why I think this is a matter for the government to deal with, and I also know that the government is concerned about it, and that is why I do not think we should support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164756	A brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164759	I see I have a problem. If I cannot understand a text in English and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen then says that sometimes it can be harder to understand it in Danish, I am totally at the mercy of it. I haven't seen that yet. I have been trying to understand international law over the last 20 years, but always in Danish. Is it not a legal and democratic problem if, for example, we do not. We cannot have UN resolutions which are a direct basis, for example. a mission in Mali, in Central Africa, in Iraq, for us to send planes there, in Danish? Is it not irresponsible for me to have to decide whether young people risk their lives if I cannot even get that piece of paper in Danish? I have not asked for official or unofficial or authorized or unauthorized papers. I have asked for a translation which I have been denied by all the foreign ministers we have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211164857	As I said, we can always discuss whether the information is good enough. But as I remember, there are two things. Sir. Christian Juhl speaks English well and understands English well; I have noticed that he does so several times. In addition, what was also said earlier is that notes are being sent which actually describe these complex matters of international law. In fact, I think it is sometimes a little difficult for everyone, even for lawyers, to understand the full implications of one thing in international law just by reading the basic texts. Well, in many cases you have to get an explanation for that. That's also why I'm gonna get to sir. Christian Juhl says that in recent years he has read a lot of international law in Danish, assuming that it is the comments that have been and the analyses that have been made of international law. There are plenty of books about international law in Danish. But as I remember them, the basic legal documents are such as: The UN resolutions in English in them. That is why they can be explained in Danish. This is so much more about us getting a better way of explaining to the Members of Parliament how things are related... not about the fact that the basic texts necessarily all have to be translated. To the extent that this may be appropriate, I think we should be positive about it. But shouldn't we leave it to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165018	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165021	To Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: I have asked the government and they have rejected it. I have asked the Bureau, and I will then say for the sake of completeness that the President of the Bureau welcomed me very positively and said that we will try to find a solution to that, but the reply from the Bureau was negative. That's why I was wondering what authority in this house I'd have to go to to get the right to have these things translated at some level. Now we have a clarification that it is possible to do so in some situations. Couldn't we try to clarify this so I know what I'm entitled to? I don't think I've been told anything today about what I'm entitled to, and I've tried every authority. It's the third instance I'm trying now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165104	Well, I can understand the frustration. It's not that. But I think it should in itself be a debate here in the Folketing, in other words that Mr. Christian Juhl had a renewed debate with the Bureau of the Danish Parliament. Because I definitely think it's relevant to discuss whether it might be some kind of money that the parties can get for this, so you can get those translations done, or whether you can get some kind of translation service here in the Folketing, so that it won't be authorized translations, if I may say so. How to deal with it will not now be quite easy to decide either, because if the Danish Parliament translates something, many will probably see it as a little authorized. But it may be possible to find a solution to it so that you can have a translation as a working tool for Members of Parliament; that is just what I mean by it. But there's just a difference between that and a finally authorized translation of one thing. Let me give you an example of how much quality this can give, and it has to do with the European Union. A few years ago, it came out, I think, in connection with a proposal for a Constitutional Treaty that there should be an EU president it is he who is now the Tusk. But that meant that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard got up and said: now we have to have a President and now we really have the United States of Europe because we have got a President we have to have a President in Europe! And the outrage sparked out of her as it can now do, didn't it? Then it had to be explained to her that the President is English and is therefore just an ordinary President. It can be a president of a football association: president of Arsenal, president of Chelsea. When I was president of the SF, I said: I'm The President of the Socialist People's Party. That didn't mean I was president of Denmark. I had to explain that to her. But just that translation of president into president meant an awful lot of discussion. It's just an example of how difficult this can be, I'd say to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165251	Then it is Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165257	I will read out the following speech to the group chairman of the Liberal Alliance, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who unfortunately cannot be here today. Not often do we in the Liberal Alliance agree with the Enhedslisten. However, this case is a pleasant exception. The Liberal Alliance does not think that it is right that key legal documents which are important for the handling of legislative and resolution proposals by this House should not be available in the language we are now speaking in this country. In a democratic society, every citizen must be able to be elected to the Folketing and be able to participate in the work in our common mother tongue. Fortunately, many people are good at English, but the material can be extremely complicated and require an extremely detailed knowledge of what is all equal is a foreign language which has not all had equal opportunities to acquire. However, it is not only decision-making members of parliament, background documents in English can cause problems. The challenge is wider and may well be a real democratic problem. It is clear that part of the population is actually excluded from getting an overview of a given political matter and getting an understanding of the details of important issues, such as: Danish military participation in missions outside the borders of the country. As can be heard, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the authors' arguments and can therefore, of course, support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165438	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165447	It is essential that discussions, which are of crucial importance for Denmark, take place on the basis of documents in Danish. This is essential for understanding, both here in the debate in the Folketing, but also in the general public. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that you have access to discussions in Danish and that you have access to knowledge and information in Danish. That is why we are in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution which we are debating today. There may be areas, also according to the excellent speech by the Foreign Minister, where it may be necessary to reserve the right to say that some things can not just be translated into Danish immediately, but that for foreign policy reasons one needs to say that some things we must maintain that we have a common definition of in Denmark, but that it is done on the basis of an English-language document. So our position is clearly that we should have as many documents as possible in Danish, that we should have that basis, also in translated form, so that we can have a discussion at the same level, and that it is not a question of whether we are good or bad at English. I also understand Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I have a great deal of understanding and veneration for the proposal and also for the arguments that are coming, but it is not a question of whether you are good or bad at English. It is a question of principles that the starting point for a discussion in Denmark is, of course, Danish documents. It must always be that way. That is why, as I said, we are very much in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution. We cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution immediately, because we would like to reserve the right to say that there are some documents in very specific situations which must be taken as a starting point in English. We must, of course, discuss this with the Enhedslisten and also whether the motion for a resolution can be nuanced here. But we're 99.999 percent. agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165713	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165717	That was interesting, especially the comment on the widest possible documents. Can the rapporteur elaborate on, for example: some or all of the examples of documents that I have mentioned in the proposal fall within that framework, or whether it is possible to describe which documents cannot be translated?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165739	All the documents mentioned in the motion for a resolution on behalf of the Enhedslisten, we agree to be translated into Danish. Everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165749	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165751	Does the rapporteur have a proposal on how to define the documents which cannot be translated? It is more because I look very positively at the support and I think that we could then, together with the government, find a way to describe it, because my wish is not to have a confrontation with all those who think they can do it all. My wish is to find solutions that improve the situation. I therefore think that any step in that direction would be very, very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165818	We, the Conservatives, would very much like to support such a step. That is why I also say that all the documents and all the cases mentioned in the motion for a resolution should be translated. Our experience is just from the empire that is in the area that there may be disputes and that there may be cases bilaterally between Denmark and x-land, where wordings have been found in a document that is in English and where there is a common understanding in English of that matter. Therefore, we will not push everything aside and say that everything should just be in Danish. But the starting point for us is that it should be in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165855	Well, then, sir. Søren Espersen asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165901	Well, I think it was an interesting speech made by the rapporteur, and I could actually propose something, and that is what I would like to ask whether the rapporteur would perhaps consider taking part in it, on the one hand, making a report on this motion for a resolution, and, on the other hand, perhaps referring it to consideration by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which the Bureau of Parliament is also involved, so that we can find a pragmatic solution to this problem, i.e. that there are some who find it very difficult to read in other languages.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165931	The Conservative People's Party would like to be included in a joint draft report. I think it's an excellent idea, sir. Søren Espersen will be included in the UFO, and in the end we will be able to discuss it in the Bureau. But we want to be in a joint draft report on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211165947	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170011	Thank you. There were some interesting suggestions along the way, for example. that we could have a debate with the Bureau of Parliament. I would not have been able to do that, but if it could, it would be interesting to discuss a little with the President. Usually you'll be rejected if you do something like that. However, I think this is an important issue, and everyone has said so when people at the various levels have been contacted, that is, ministries, the Bureau, etc. The positive attitude should therefore be welcomed, but could we not then just say that the people who have rejected, that we should have some rules on it, or have refused that this proposal is good enough, perhaps could consider in concrete terms how that situation could be described. Because I do not feel comfortable saying that I can always do that to the ministries when it turns out that in specific cases, where, I'm sorry, I almost said the john is burning, but at least where it is really wrong, the answer is no. That's not gonna work. I don't need any major authorized translations. I need translations which can be used, and if we could agree that it is this nature of documents that have to be translated, then popular organisations and others who are interested in our work could also obtain those who are not authorised translations, so that they could improve their democratic work by making ideas, saying their opinion, etc. It is difficult in a situation where we have 48 hours to decide whether some plane is going somewhere. Therefore, it is very good if we can get a rule that they and those documents are at least translated. The reason I say that it might be good to have some rules is because we get stacks of translations from Brussels on things that are very detailed and that may include 10, 20, 30 Danes and which are particularly technical and not even political issues. They're in Danish in a lot. I think that's fine service, and I think that's really good for those who need it. But for example... questions of war and peace, the basis for whether we should take down our bombers and risk killing the civilian population in some countries, we cannot get translated at this stage. I think that should be a matter of course, and I am very pleased with Conservatives' commitment to help look at this nature of documents, as I think they have a particular impact on our work. I don't know which committee would normally deal with this kind of thing. It is not the Committee on Foreign Affairs, although it is the Foreign Minister that we are discussing with. But if it is the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is there; if it is somewhere else, it is there. Who am I to ask who is taking an initiative in this context? Because of course I can raise it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but that is not where it is; I will be rejected there. There's gotta be somewhere. Perhaps the President can reprove me and tell me where to do it and what the parliamentary procedure is like to get on with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170317	For the sake of clarification, I can say that my recommendation is that it should be in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which the Bureau is also fully represented. Sir. Søren Espersen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170332	I am glad that the President says so. That is where I think we should land, because there really is a great deal of support for finding pragmatic solutions. We are also not interested in having an EU situation where we get 80,000 pages every day that we have to read. That's not what we want. However, I think we should try to arrive at something about the fact that we are making a comprehensive report in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where I think this proposal has been notified, where we are actually simply referring the matter to the UFO. Then we can take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170410	If I have understood correctly, this means that in practice we are taking a round in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and then in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. That means that, if nothing happens at all, you can take it back into the Chamber again. At least that's how I got it. Then I would like to thank you for your contribution. I think we have come quite a long way in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170431	No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. As I said, I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170448	The debate is open. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211170522	Thank you. This motion for a resolution calls on the Government to bring forward the necessary legislative proposals and to make the necessary changes to administrative regulations to ensure that goods vehicles under 3.5 tonnes on which goods are carried out for hire or reward are covered by the provisions of the Road Transport Act. The legal situation today is such that the authorisation requirement laid down in the legislation on the carriage of goods applies only to lorries, that is to say vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of more than 3,5 tonnes. This means that truck companies must comply with the requirement not to be convicted of offences of importance, professional qualifications and capital requirements. The holder of a licence must also comply with the provisions on the pay and working conditions of drivers contained in collective agreements. There is considerably less regulation of vans than of trucks over 3.5 tonnes. Vans are only subject to the general requirements for companies to register for the CVR register and be registered for VAT purposes. It is not a new idea that vans should be subject to more requirements. This has been under discussion for several years. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport had a consultant report drawn up back in April 2013 on the issue, and if you pull it forward, you will see that it among other things. In conclusion, 2.9%. of the total number of vans used for driving at so-called foreign expense. This corresponds to approximately 12,400 vans out of the 427,000 vans in Denmark, calculated on 1 January 2012. There is generally little competition between trucks and vans, which to a large extent serve different parts of the freight market. An authorisation requirement will result in an increased administrative burden for both business and the authorities, and from the conclusions of the report I can mention that most EU countries do not have regulation of vans, although it is seen in some places. The agreement between the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten on the Finance Act for 2015, i.e. the recently concluded Finance Act, says the following, as I quote from the text of the agreement: "It is necessary to examine whether better and fairer conditions can be created in the market for goods vehicles carrying goods at foreign expense, with particular focus on those areas where there are indications that there are problems with pay and working conditions. The Contracting Parties therefore note that the Government will undertake an analysis of the consequences of the introduction of an authorisation system for goods vehicles, which means that they are subject to wage and working conditions equivalent to those applicable to lorries over 3.5 tonnes. The analysis shall, in particular, identify the economic consequences for the industry and the State, foreign experience in regulating vans, and, where appropriate, examine the EU legal aspects by including foreign vans in an authorisation scheme. • Against this background, the government will now initiate such an investigation, but I would like to make a few comments on what I think is essential when it comes to deciding whether it makes sense to introduce a permit model. Seen from my chair, there are two crucial demands that must be made on such a system. Firstly, the purpose of a permit model must be to ensure proper pay and working conditions for drivers. That's where I could be most worried about the problems. And it is also in that area that the model of the goods transport law has a relevance. On the other hand, I do not think that to include goods vehicles in the overall law, for example. the need for more training for drivers will have an impact on several of the reasons given in the proposal by the proposers. This concerns, among other things: on preventing the use of illegal labour, undeclared work and social fraud, but I will come back to that. Secondly, I believe that it would be important for the costs to be borne by the authorities and by the licensing system to be commensurate with the impact of the regulation. This is of course important, because we must not introduce unnecessary regulation that goes beyond the economy of companies. After all, there is a broad consensus in the Folketing that we need growth and the development of productivity in society to such an extent, and it does not, of course, make a positive contribution to introducing more administrative burdens. I am not saying that a new regulation cannot be discussed. That is exactly what we are doing: we are examining what kind of regulation will be relevant. But when we make the decision, we must be sure that it works in the right way. The proposers here today highlight the problems of illegal labour, undeclared work and social fraud as a reason for introducing an authorisation system. It should of course be borne in mind here that an authorisation system does not want to correct this problem. When it comes to cheating, when it comes to fraud, there is a need for a completely different type of action, which must come from the police and tax authorities. Another background to the proposal is, according to the proposers, to take action against a distortion of the market in relation to lorries. Here, like the 2013 study, I would like to point out that there is no indication that there is a great deal of competition between trucks and vans. Vans and trucks operate to a large extent in different markets, and therefore the difference in requirements for different types of vehicles does not pose a major problem for the competitive situation between the two industries. However, as stated in the Finance Act, the government is not at all opposed to introducing a licensing system for vans. We are looking at exactly what this could look like in practice. In view of the fact that it has now been agreed that this analysis of the consequences of introducing such a system should be carried out, I would like to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171151	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171157	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive reports on the government's intentions in the Finance Act to go in and investigate this. But then I can just wonder what was wrong with the report you ordered and got in 2013. Was it not enough, since a new job is already being set in motion? Or is it because you're insecure about this whole area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171227	No, I think, as I have read the conclusions of the report, that it is very, very beneficial to know the extent of the problem, and the analysis that we have now agreed with the financial settlement to set in motion must of course focus on which system can be knitted together, which can focus on solving the problem of pay and working conditions. If the Danish People's Party is also concerned with this issue, I think it is good news and excellent, because that is not what has fallen most into the eyes. In the previous finance laws, when the Danish People's Party negotiated with the VK government, it was never really this that came out of it. There are now, and I very much welcome it, every time there are parties that join the tabs among those who want to ensure proper pay and working conditions. I believe that there is something to be done here and that we can find a solution, but we have to find the right arrangement, and that is what we have agreed in the financial law settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171332	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171333	Now I hope that the Minister will remember that in 2012, when we last amended the goods transport law together with the current government, one of the very strong wishes of the Danish People's Party in this respect was that we just got goods vehicles under 3,500 kg below. So there was an excellent opportunity for the government to do so, so the fact that we should not have done anything in the Danish People's Party is, in fact, only a question of shooting off responsibility from the Minister. The minister talked about growth, so we should not drag unnecessary bureaucratic rules down on business. May I remind you that if it's a growth in the black economy the minister wants, we just have to let these vans roll on out there. Studies have therefore been carried out to show that more than 100 million are being cheated. kr. I think that is quite interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171425	I can only agree entirely with that. We must be very careful that this resolution today will not solve a problem of illegal relations and of cheating and organised cheating. To the extent that it exists, it must be stopped and it must be investigated, and it is up to the authorities, that is. SKAT and police, to secure it. This is for me to see about ensuring that the people who work in the transport sector have some decent pay and working conditions, and what the Finance Act is about is making an analysis of how we can create a model that includes a permit system that ensures exactly that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171504	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171527	With the motion for a resolution here, the Danish People's Party proposes that goods vehicles less than 3.5 tonnes, which carry out freight services on a foreign basis, should be covered by the law on the carriage of goods. We are talking about more than 12 000 vans carrying goods at a foreign expense, and this is equivalent to barely 3%. of the total number of vans. The Left fully understands the arguments behind the proposal, including the need to ensure fair competition in road transport. We must also combat the use of illegal labour, and we will not accept undeclared work on the roads either. However, if we cannot support the motion for a resolution, it is because we lack a thorough explanation of the consequences, including whether the proposal entails more bureaucracy and increased administrative costs, for example. to examine the many applications for authorisations. We also lack an indication of the overall impact on business, including whether the proposal entails increased costs and new burdens. As you know, we need more jobs in the private sector in this country. We must have a great deal of focus on this in all our legislation, which is precisely why we need to be careful about new burdens. Having said that, the Left is ready to discuss measures that ensure orderly conditions for goods vehicles to travel with goods at a foreign expense... not to confuse with craft companies and other people's driving with their own materials. However, our resolution may have far-reaching consequences, and that is why we want the political debate that we will certainly have at a later stage to be taken on a fully informed basis so that we can balance the benefits and gains we gain with the disadvantages and burdens that might be involved in some measures. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that deliberate cheating and fraud, for example. If you are using illegal labour or black driving, you are a matter for the police and for SKAT, and the guilty must be punished. Among other things, it can be done. be in the form of raids and other things you can do, as we have seen with other industries. But all in all: sympathy for the ideas behind the proposal, but we cannot support the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171752	There are two brief comments. First, it's sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171754	Thank you very much. Should I understand in that way that the Left actually praises that SF, Enhedslisten and the government have now agreed that an investigation is being made of these things in the van area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171822	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171827	I am very pleased to hear that, and that is a commendable clear answer. It is not often experienced here in the Folketing, unfortunately, but happy here. I would like to ask: if Denmark were to suffer the accident of a bourgeois majority after the next elections, what would the position of the Left be in relation to ensuring that there are fixed pay and working conditions also for drivers in vans?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171843	Well, as I say, we are ready to discuss measures to combat the use of illegal labour and undeclared work and fraud in this area. We are just uncertain whether the concrete action here to bring it under the road haulage law is the right method. However, we are ready to discuss proposals, and we look forward to seeing the study that has been carried out in connection with the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171908	Sir. Kim Christiansen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171910	Thank you. I should also, of course, like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, expressing sympathy. As you know, it is not necessarily the case that sympathy results in great love, so I cannot really use that much. I think that it would be much better if we could come up with something quite specific in relation to whether we cannot see a problem here at all. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen tries to neglect this... so did the minister... and says it's only 3%. of the total number of vans. Yes, but it is 12,400 who are carrying freight at foreign expense in obvious competition with the rest of the transport industry • without driving-rest-time regulations, without capital requirements, without training requirements. - Sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen doesn't even see that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211171959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172001	If it's love, sir. Kim Christiansen is looking, perhaps it is somewhere else than right here in the Chamber that you should try to find it. However, as I have said, we have a great deal of understanding about what we want to combat here. What we are just saying is that before you put such a big thing into action and it is a big thing if you suddenly have to have more than 12,000 vans into a whole new permit regime, all the processing it will include, training requirements could be something with, capital requirements etc., it is a very comprehensive system to put into effect, so you have to be on safe ground and have a thorough account of the consequences, for example. what it costs for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172041	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172043	Today it is DKK 150,000 that you have to ask for, if you want to open a trucker's shop, and there are some training requirements etc., and that might be DKK 50,000. For the small vans that is what we agree on and then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen the cost to the company concerned. Today you can buy a 10,000 kroner car. online, write rocket mail on the page and then, by the way, drive around just as long as you have a VAT number. Then pay and working conditions and, incidentally, rest-time regulations and all sorts of other things are completely irrelevant. So I don't know what kind of knowledge that is, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen would like to receive this study. We know the number: 12,400. I find that rather problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172127	Now Mr. Kim Christiansen drive-rest-time regulations. This surprises me a little, for I know it has nothing to do with the law on the carriage of goods. But I understand that you also want to have driving-rest-time regulations for vans. However, as I said, we are ready to discuss this here when we have an enlightened basis and can see how we can combat cheating and fraud, because of course nobody wants to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172151	A brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172154	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentions that one of his concerns about the motion for a resolution here is that these vans are then placed under the road haulage law. I do not think that the goods traffic law is perhaps the right tool to use in this situation, so I do not quite understand that, because it is the same thing, one might say. As I understand the motion for a resolution, it is, of course, a question of dealing with goods traffic at a foreign expense. That is also what happens with lorries over 31⁄2 tonnes, so why does that difference occur? It's the same type of goods transport just with less cars you're trying to focus on. If it works in relation to the large cars, and there we have the goods transport law as a tool, why does it not work in relation to the small cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172247	Yeah, but that's what we need a light on. What are the consequences of thousands of small cars entering such a new licensing regime? It costs, I guess, a lot of bureaucracy in the Traffic Authority, for example. How many more employees do they need to manage this? What will the cost be for the individual company that is now going to get into this, including all the law-abiding companies that are strictly observing the rules? They will also be affected by increased costs. All this is what the Left wants to light up before we throw ourselves into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172324	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172325	Yes, but I think that is fair enough, and that is also what the analysis that has been adopted in the context of the Finance Act should, of course, be clarified. But it can be said that this bureaucracy, like Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen refers to, indeed in reality exists in advance. It is, of course, an extension if more are added. Yes, of course we need a little more staff. But the procedures, the paperwork, if I may say so, the chain of command has already been defined, so it is easy to pick up and say: this is the way it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172354	Yes, yes, bureaucracy already exists, but if you have to deal with 12,000 more applications now it isn't annual, but it's a pretty big pile of money and people have to be used to get people over each time, it's increased bureaucracy in my world, and we always have to be very careful about that. So we are now waiting to see what is coming out of the study that has been carried out, and then we are ready to discuss measures that can help to eliminate illegal labour and black driving, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172425	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Rasmus Prehn as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172443	On the social democratic side, we would like to congratulate the Danish People's Party for highlighting this very important issue, which is about vans under 31⁄2 tonnes, with which there are various problems. There is no doubt that there are major problems with illegal work, with undeclared work and also with employees who drive under quite unreasonable conditions. So the fact that the Danish People's Party is focusing on this, we Social Democrats have very much sympathy for it. That is also why, together with the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, we have drawn up a financial agreement which has just been agreed to go into detail on this issue. Because what we are concerned about is ensuring that we have better pay and working conditions for the employees who are behind the wheel of these courier cars, vans and what it is. We need more safety on the roads, and we need more security for these employees, better pay and working conditions, no doubt about that. When you go into detail about the proposal itself, you can ask whether that is the right way to do it. Is this about taking the goods traffic law, which we know from the big trucks of over 31⁄2 tonnes, and then, in a way, moving across parallel to the smaller vans? We are less sure of this from the Socialist side. The Minister and the rapporteur of the Left have outlined very well what this is about with the goods traffic law, so I do not want to go into detail on this, but I do want to mention a few elements of the goods traffic law. This is the case, for example. is an equity requirement where you need DKK 150,000. in equity to start up and get permissions to run. I can imagine, for example, that we are going to be able to do so. in Nordjylland, where I am elected, could have a single promotional bid that drives around with a van that has difficulty in providing such a large equity. And is that necessarily the way to solve this? It may well be that he can offer his employees good and sensible pay and working conditions, it may also be that he can handle this in a reasonable way himself, and is that the way forward just to take the rule regime that we know from the goods traffic law and take it on to the smaller vans? The same thing with regard to courses where you need to have, as I have read up on it, 144 lessons in order to be able to run under this system. Is that the way forward? I'm not sure. So although we in the Social Democratic Party have praised the Danish People's Party for pointing out this important problem, I must also say that the Danish People's Party in itself kicks in an open door. After all, we are looking into this, we are focusing on pay and working conditions and not on everything else that just wants to give more bureaucracy, but the Danish People's Party is hurrying, as soon as you have seen that some people are doing something, with a motion for a resolution to make it look like it is the Danish People's Party that is doing something in this area. I think it seems a little insidious and a little bit clever. Now, in the previous debate here in Parliament, we had a debate about whether things should be in foreign and Danish, and I know that Mr. Kim Christiansen is very concerned that we are not allowed to use foreign words, and I have actually tried to search for a good, precise Danish word which can cover this with the fact that, on the one hand, you agree with Vejlegården and say that it is no problem that there is no agreement, and are out to praise the trucker Kim Johansen for putting it into a system, that it is foreign drivers who drive, and then on the other hand would like to take credit for the government's attempt to do something about pay and working conditions in connection with goods vehicles. The best Danish word I have been able to find that covers the behaviour of the Danish People's Party here is the good old expression craftsman. When you look at mr. Kim Christiansen, I think, is not far from the word. Obedience artist! We know it from inside Strøget, it's people who dance around themselves a little, and before you look around, you've lost both concentration and money, and then they say: there's nothing here, there's nothing there. It is, as I see it, the policy of the Danish People's Party in a nutshell, because it is crafty artists who try to make it look like a whole lot, but unfortunately there is not so much substance in it. This proposal is very sympathetic, but it will result in a whole lot of bureaucracy and inappropriateness. What we deliver on the part of the government, on the part of the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party is the way forward, that is what makes the employees who sit behind the wheel better and more secure conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172924	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211172927	Thanks for the flashy words and for that I can get new titles and everything that's really great. To the end, where Mr. Rasmus Prehn promises that this study will lead to better working conditions, I would just like to say that we really do not know about that at this stage. And this isn't about kicking in an open door. If sir... Rasmus Prehn otherwise remembers from the debate in 2012, so we also proposed this with the small vans being covered by the goods transport law. Then I just want to know if this is a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal, and whether Mr. Rasmus Prehn knows the difference between them. If you don't, I'll give you a brief outline. After all, the motion for a resolution obliges the government to make a move in this area, and we are willing to see whether it is going to be 50,000 kroner. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for these small vans, and by the way, look at how it should be delimited. Our sympathy with Vejlegården, where we had a social democratic trade union movement that stood over there and prevented a man from doing his business, seems to me to be completely untasteful to bring into this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173032	The aim of the Social Democracy, the goal of the government, the goal, I am sure, also for the Socialist People's Party and for the Enhedslisten, when you make an agreement to investigate this, is that we should have better pay and working conditions. There should be no doubt about that. We just want to make sure that when you make these changes, it happens in a proper way, for example. not only do as is actually stated in the motion for a resolution, and I mentioned the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, in which it is proposed that the law on the carriage of goods, as it currently applies to the large lorries, should be adopted and applied to goods vehicles. That would mean, if you interpret it in a very square way, that there would also be an equity requirement of DKK 150,000. I don't think sir. Kim Christiansen thinks this should be the case, but that is what it says, and there I am just saying that I think it is better that we continue with the work we are already doing and have it properly examined, and then we will ensure that these employees who are behind the wheel of these vans are better paid and working conditions. And yes, there are sympathetic thoughts in this motion for a resolution, no doubt about it, but there is no reason to agree that we should continue working on an idea we have already had and have already adopted in a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173137	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173140	I would just like to say briefly that now we were not in the financial negotiations in question, because then, of course, this could have been played out, and it could have been that we had been happy and satisfied with it. This has been submitted to the Legal Secretariat, I think, before the government's financial bill was finally agreed. So I think it is perfectly legitimate that we should also bring this matter down to the Chamber. It's just in proportion to the fact that sir... Rasmus Prehn thinks the government had come first with this. I think it was the Danish People's Party's proposal that came first on the table, but leave it at that. It is better than standing here arguing about who the hell has come first with the idea that we are then looking at solving it, and I hope that those answers to the statement will also come while the current government is here, otherwise it will not be able to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173227	There should be no discussion about who came first. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. However, it is just the case that we concluded a financial agreement, an agreement in which the Danish People's Party could very well have been involved, an agreement in which the Danish People's Party could have helped improve the conditions for these employees if they wanted to. But the Danish People's Party is very concerned about making block politics with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Left, who in no way wants to improve the conditions of employees. Therefore, the Danish People's Party was not included in this financial law agreement, which is why it does not help to improve the conditions of employees. It is a pity, of course, but a great deal of honour and respect for the fact that you have a motion for a resolution here. We are in the process of working, and if it is that we agree that the focus should be on improving pay and working conditions, then we agree, but we will not vote in favour of this resolution. I also promised to speak on behalf of the Radicals. They do not vote for it either. Sir. Andreas Steenberg is prevented. There is a lot of sympathy for this, but the concrete proposal will mean too much bureaucracy, and that is why we are working on what we are already doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173332	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there is no radical rapporteur present, Mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173348	The Danish road haulage law is fantastic. I am thinking here of the fact that, under the Road Transport Act, drivers must be paid according to collective Danish agreements when they drive goods for others in return for payment. But it is absolutely right, as has been said, that the law does not apply to vehicles that are less than 31⁄2 tonnes, i.e. vans. And from our point of view, it is a clear problem that the law does not apply to vans. I can give a concrete example: Post Danmark has an agreement and pays his drivers in a proper way, but there are several of Post Danmark's competitors who do not have an agreement. This means that there are drivers who are paid below tariffs and who have working hours during what is stated in the collective agreements. It is clear that this is an unsustainable situation because it undermines Post Denmark with the arranged conditions in a totally unreasonable way. Therefore, we had the same requirement as the Danish People's Party in this proposal with regard to the financial law negotiations with the government, and in this way SF is in the work clothes and is pushing. It is not always so that things go quite as fast as you might wish. This is also true in the case of financial law negotiations. After all, the SF needs 12 seats to talk to other parties, in this case with the Social Democrats and Radicals who are in government, and they wanted a somewhat longer run than we had imagined. So it's the longer run that's agreed. What is happening is, as has been said, that the government is examining whether better and fairer conditions can be created in the market for goods vehicles, and here it goes on to say in the Finance Act that priority will be given to areas where there are precisely signs of problems with pay and working conditions. It could, for example. the postal sector, which I mentioned a moment ago, and the unfair competition that Post Denmark is facing. You will also look at foreign experiences, and as the proposers from the Danish People's Party point out in their proposals, there will be exciting things to find out in Sweden, where you have a system where you need a goods transport permit to drive vans under 31⁄2 tonnes at foreign expense, as it is called. Once the study referred to has been completed sometime this summer, the conciliation parties will meet again, the government, SF and Enhedslisten, and then we will have to decide what to do next. Here, it will clearly be SF's wish also at the time that the goods transport law, at least in terms of pay and working conditions, i.e. the provision that collective agreements must be observed, should be introduced for vans under 31⁄2 tonnes. Sometimes you have to be patient, life has taught me. It can be said that in another area, and here I come to social dumping in the building and construction sector, an ID card is being introduced which all construction workers in Denmark must have, both Danish and foreign. This will be a major step in the fight against social dumping. There you can ask how it has come to pass that it is now becoming a reality. Yes, it has happened exactly in the way it is happening now with regard to vans, namely by starting an investigation. In this way, I am convinced that this will also lead to something good. We think that the Danish People's Party's proposal is good as far as pay and working conditions and collective agreements are concerned, but, as I have said, we have an agreement process in progress, which is why, unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but we are going to achieve the objective in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173746	Sir. Kim Christiansen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173748	It's very short, just so I understand. Of course, I fully understand that Mr. Eigil Andersen is bound by an agreement with the government. Such agreements must, of course, be observed. But if that agreement hadn't been there, sir. Eigil Andersen is actually prepared to act here and now is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173809	That's kind of right, but it's just that I wouldn't be sure that anything happened. Well, SF doesn't have a majority with the Danish People's Party. As we have made an agreement with the government and there is a majority behind it, I am sure something is happening. For SF, it is extremely important that we are socialist voices working that something comes out of it for the benefit of the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173835	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211173846	Not much can be added to what has already been said. However, there should be no doubt whatsoever that we in the Group of the European People's Party are very, very sympathetic to the proposal in front of us. I would even say that we could have been co-sponsors if there had not been another situation, namely that which several people have also explained, that we have made an agreement with the government and the SF in the context of the Finance Act to carry out an analysis which, like that, must identify the problem and its scope and so on. etc. We have known for a long time that there is a problem. A great many people, including the 3F and 3F Transport Group, have pointed this out here, and also the trucker's organization DTL has pointed out that they believe that there is social dumping, wage dumping and, for that reason, of course, unfair competition against the many hauliers who carry out freight transport. And that is what this proposal is all about, and that is also about the agreement we have in relation to the Finance Act. There should be no doubt that the Enhedslisten, with the agreement we have made in connection with the Finance Act, of course has the clear objective that it should result in vehicles under 31⁄2 tonnes being also covered by the Freight Act. And it is precisely to protect against social dumping, to ensure that there is fair competition, and to ensure that contractual relations are conducted, and here the Code of Goods is just so excellent that it really guarantees it if there is adequate control of compliance with the law. So from here there is sympathy for the motion for a resolution. I would actually like to say to the rapporteur that he should either keep the proposal fluent, if I may say so, or perhaps re-submit it, since the work on the analysis of the Finance Act will not be completed until the summer. Because if this analysis does not lead us to actually get to what the motion for a resolution says here, then we are clearly prepared to go further. At that time, I would say, there is a danger that we will have another government with a different color, but it will probably be such a government in which the rapporteur has quite a lot of influence. And we hope that he will then claim it, so that we can actually take this step further. But he must take it with his friends on the bourgeois wing. The rapporteur can count on our support at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174147	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174158	Since, unfortunately, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur cannot be here today, I will read out the rapporteur's speech: the Liberal Alliance does not immediately see the big problem in that little 3%. of the Danish vans perform so-called goods transport on a foreign account. We have plenty of regulation in Denmark and, as I understand the motion for a resolution, more than 12 000 less self-employed people will then have to apply for authorisation under the Road Transport Act with all that is involved in driving-rest-time rules, courses and exams and other EU-defined requirements and restrictions. The Liberal Alliance believes that we are doing the Danes a favour by not resorting to the law machine every time we see a problem. A lot of people will probably be able to run very few times a year, and then I think it will be difficult to send in the application and sign up for the course, and I also expect a lot of control problems if we are to extend the requirements as proposed. All in all, we believe that it is to go a little too far if we are to make these demands. The safe winners will be the bureaucrats and all those who have to check whether it is a friend service, for example, when you help with a move, because you have a van or whether it is a professional job. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174326	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174339	Thank you, sir. President. Conservatives think that there are a great many positive tactics in this motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. After all, we have had the debate in the past, and the Conservative People's Party seems so fundamental that many things make sense, because there is no doubt that the limit now set, which is probably a little random, means that if you operate with a truck weighing more than 3,500 kg, you are in unfair competition. There is a distortion of competition in relation to vans weighing less than 3,500 kg, because it may be that the company's services are the same, but that it is just the weight that is different. So we kind of think there's a lot of good tactics in it. We also think it is appropriate to look at this and we want to take a positive approach to committee work, but it is perhaps appropriate to wait for the analysis initiated by the government with certain support, because of course there are also some issues that arise. Now, as a result of this, and in order to correct the distortion of competition, there must be economic conditions for the road haulage operator to be met. Is it reasonable that you should have $150,000? in equity, or may that amount be less? I think that might be worth a thought. There is also a requirement that you should have been on a course for self-employed people when you are engaged in road haulage, which actually costs DKK 30,000. That's what you have to do every 10 years. It may be a little more than enough to ask if you just run a small one-man business that only drives a van. I think we should go in and look at that too. On the other hand, I think that we can maintain the demand that we should not have public debt. That rule applies today, and I think we should maintain it in the new one too, if it comes to it. I also like the fact that we should be well qualified. There are then some requirements that must be met in general terms, namely that we must not be punished for trafficking in human beings or serious drunk driving. Then there is good practice in the industry and the fact that you have not been convicted of having been engaged in or engaged in illegal transport for a long time. I think that is also a sensible demand to maintain. The question then is: should there not be any limit at all? I think it might be a little extreme to say that there should be no limit at all and that this should apply to all cars. Perhaps we could set a limit, and then the question is whether it should be 21⁄2 tonnes or 3 tonnes, because cars under a certain limit, let us say 2,500 kg, will be passenger cars, and then it will be passenger transport or at least very little freight transport. I think we could eliminate them and in this way also move all the administration that would be involved. I also think it is relevant to relate to when you now equate the industry with cars less than 3,500 kg. Let us say, for example, at 2,500 kg. Now that they have the same rights, is there not something that needs to be standardized here? We may think so. I think we should look at that too. Then there is the last detail that needs to be put in place before we can deal with this, and that is, of course, that if you buy trucks of over 3,500 kg today, you do not pay a registration fee. If we set a limit of 2,500 kg, this must implicitly mean that there should be no registration fee on them either. There the state suffers a loss of revenue. We need to find a solution to that. I think that, for all the things I have listed here as a few hurdles that need to be adjusted and adapted, sensible solutions can be found, and I believe that, after thorough committee work, we will be able to find an appropriate solution and that we will then be able to support the proposal, but as things are described today and as they are presented here today, it is not sufficiently clarified and thoroughly prepared to support it. However, I believe that the authors of the motion have realised that we are relatively in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174753	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174755	I think that this was an exciting review of what the rapporteur thinks could also apply to vans and the points that we believe should not apply. There may have been one point that just missed out on me, but that may be because I have not heard enough. It was a question of whether, in the opinion of the Conservatives, the principle of collective pay should also be respected in the case of vans.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174825	I do not believe that there should be any change in remuneration and in the competitive situation compared to today. That is why I did not clarify anything on that particular subject. I do not think there is any need for this, and I think that the rules that exist today are fully applicable to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174840	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174841	That was a rather ambiguous answer, I think. I need some clarification, because the point is that vans do not have to be paid by collective agreement. However, as the rapporteur himself has pointed out, there are other companies that use lorries and that have to pay by collective agreement. It is a good thing that the same rule should apply to vans as well. So what is the view of the Conservatives here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174917	That view is quite clear. The reason why Mr. Eigil Andersen thinks he doesn't get a clear answer, is that in my delusion I didn't think this was something worth taking into this debate. We believe that the same rules that apply today to lorries over 3,500 kg should apply to the limit we may set, for example 2,500 kg. The same requirements must apply. So I cannot respond to the desire of the SF to look at it, as Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174947	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kim Christiansen, from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211174957	Thank you. After all, you are quite touched by all the positivity that has been in Things this late afternoon. That's nice. I know that the government is doing something about this, and when we go in and bring it to the Chamber today, it is of course to keep this process going, because we have been discussing this for years now. That is good and positive. I'm positive that this committee has been set up to look at it, and let's see what it comes with, because this can't wait much longer. The way things are developing... you have to watch out for what you say... so unfortunately there's a lot of cheating and scams in the industry out there. After all, it is gratifying that one of the big truckers' organizations here at home, DTL, is making a very special department for these small vans that drive freight at a foreign expense. But thank you for the positivity. This certainly suggests that, when we get the study in question, whether it is one side or the other side of the Chamber that might have the power, we can have a sensible solution to this, and of course the Danish People's Party is happy to discuss both the one and the other, such as the Danish People's Party. capital requirements and where it is reasonable to make the cut. I'd like to say a few things. Sir. Rasmus Prehn mentioned it with the promotional offer, which could be a problem. Well, many of the commercials I've seen don't run on Danish license plates. And that is another thing that this proposal must also help to remedy: there is an enormous amount of cabotage going on with these vans, and we just have to bear in mind that it must also be part of the work of the committee that we must put an end to it. Of course, the rules that apply today must also apply to these cars if they are covered. Then Mr. Rasmus Prehn, that we in the Danish People's Party couldn't figure out anything but to make block politics with our blue friends, and that's kind of the rhetoric, Mr. Rasmus Prehn occasionally uses it where he swung up in such high air layers that there is apparently a lack of oxygen up there. I would just like to remind you of the Togfonden DK, which we have agreed with the government and the Enhedslisten, and let me remind you of the agreement on better and cheaper public transport, which we entered into with the government and the Enhedslisten. So please stop all this block policy nonsense we are working with those who want to cooperate with the Danish People's Party, and we are doing so in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175221	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175223	If the living conditions of the Danish citizens are deteriorating by a bourgeois majority after the next election, will the Danish People's Party be the guarantor that this is done in relation to the vans, so that there is a rule that there is to be paid after collective agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175249	Now Mr. Eigil Andersen after all the social development with a blue government; I think it can be quite good for the Danes, but that is where you and I can have completely different beliefs. Well, I actually think, sir. Henning Hyllested mentioned it, and I fully agree with that: if this conclusion or what is now being examined does not result in a real legislative proposal, we will resubmit this proposal, regardless of who has the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175318	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175319	Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party guarantee that this demand will be upheld and that we do not sell out the courage to get border barriers in return?
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175329	We hope to be able to get both if there is to be a change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175336	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141211175351	Here at the end of the meeting there is an additional review: Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill no. L 94 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and the Law on Nature Conservation. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 12 December 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
