ParlaMint-DK_20141205095958	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Esbe Lunde Larsen (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Per Stig Møller (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Hasteforskning nr. F 13 (Will the Minister explain the impact of the government's dimensioning model on individual educational institutions, including professional academies, professional colleges and universities?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100030	The debate is open. Sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100047	Thank you. As the rapporteur of the Left on the matter, Mr. Henrik Høegh, unable to be present, I have promised to read his speech. The Minister has put forward a draft law in the field of marine mining, coastal protection and marine strategy, and according to the Minister's draft law, among other things. to improve the conditions of competition in the extraction of raw materials and to provide a better framework for the industry in relation to the exemption from remuneration. In addition, the Minister has also proposed a change in the field of the recovery of clean-up and deepening materials and, finally, the bill proposes an increase in the Minister's authority to remove environmentally-protected areas where the permit for extraction is either removed or limited. The proposal also provides for a simplification of procedures and a shortening of processing times by the fact that common areas for extraction are no longer to be defined by decree, but only by authorisation. This is absolutely positive, which is also reflected in several consultation responses, which welcome the proposal and also praise the fact that the authorisations will be 10 years old. A change is also proposed in the auction scheme in common areas, with the aim of increasing the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to bid in common areas on equal terms with the large groups which characterise the raw materials recovery market. Nowadays, the auction scheme operates in such a way that companies register waters which the Danish Nature Agency, following environmental studies and research into raw materials geological research, is planning for auction. Everyone can bid in the areas, but the auction is won by the one offering the highest remuneration, i.e. the highest price per person. cubic meters multiplied by the quantity offered per. years. It can therefore be very expensive, as some areas are huge and it is therefore proposed that the auction system be changed to the extent that the right of recovery is only won at the highest bid per year. cubic meter. We welcome the proposal, but we are also sceptical about the impact of the above. In addition, there is also a risk that bidders who are not interested in major inventive areas will only offer a higher price per year. cubic meters, thus pushing out businesses that will extract throughout the range offered, which is less optimal. We therefore want to see whether the new auction scheme proposed by the Minister in the draft law will actually affect small businesses or whether it is merely a conjecture. We therefore follow up on committee questions and look forward to hearing the Minister's answer to that, but as a starting point we are positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100333	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torben Hansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100345	When we establish framework conditions for the exploration and extraction of raw materials at sea, a great many must be taken into account. Environmental considerations must be taken into account, competition considerations must be taken into account, and the Social Democratic Party is very pleased that with this proposal from the government and the Minister we are actually getting a beautiful balance on it. Right now, it is risky for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in auctions for the extraction of raw materials, because the auction rules currently in place are not built up properly: short term exclusive rights, high exploration costs. And as we have understood, the current rules take account of larger capital companies and this has resulted in limited competition on the market, which is why it is also natural to rely on how we appropriately change the incentive structure, and we think that is what we are doing with this bill. Because in the Social Democratic Party we are interested in more companies being given better opportunities to actually compete, and at the same time recovery is becoming effective in the designated areas. We in the Social Democratic Party are also very pleased that the Minister will be given the authority to lay down areas where no mining permit is granted. It may be in the interests of the environment, nature, fishing or other social interests. That it's part of this bill, we're really, really happy about it. With those comments, we agree with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100527	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pia Adelsteen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100536	Thank you. When you're new to an area like that, you learn something new. I didn't actually know that you were auctioning at sea, but it's nice to get such a bill, because you actually learn something new every day when you're in here, and I think that's something that also makes the workplace interesting. I basically think that we in the Danish People's Party think that the starting point for the proposal is quite good, namely that you will try to increase competition when you make raw materials recovery at sea. So immediately we are positive on the part of the Danish People's Party. I think that the problem mentioned by the Left is relevant, but we must of course see what the answer to it is in committee. Then perhaps there is one thing that I should at least bear in mind, and that is the legal basis given to a minister. We have a tendency to do so, and on principle I think it is a bad thing. I think that when there is something that needs to be adopted, it has to go down to the Chamber, but I also have to find out how small it is, because sometimes a minister has to be given a legal basis, so that things can also work in the practical world. So we're gonna have to take a look at that, too. But basically I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100655	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lone Loklinde as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100713	On the part of the Radical Left, we are also very positive about this bill. It is true that it is the state that owns the raw materials in the seabed, and although we do not really think about the fact that we have so many raw materials in Denmark, we actually have sand and gravel, and this is very much needed in building houses, roads and so on. It is also important that the way in which it is recovered is carried out in a competitive manner and in a manner that is sound in terms of nature and the environment. There has been an evaluation of the previous way of doing so, which shows that competition is not very good. This has been mostly interesting for large companies. Now we have a change that should improve competitiveness and thus also ensure more efficient use of it. However, I am also very sensitive to the fact that we have an opportunity precisely to protect areas where there is valuable nature, or areas which are particularly important for fisheries. So with this bill, we will have a way of ensuring both the best use of raw materials, keeping shipping lanes and other installations open and maintained, but also keeping areas which have so far been difficult to keep free. After all, there will also be a marine strategy directive which will enable us to identify some areas which will be completely exempt from recovery. So the Radical Left can support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100909	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205100925	As has also been mentioned earlier, the evaluation of the raw material law of February 2012 showed that the auction system, which was introduced with a legal amendment in 2009, had not, for the time being, contributed to the promotion of competition and that the auctions were most interesting for larger companies. So the purpose of this bill is to change the system so that it will also benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. We believe that without going into the technical details of this, there are some improvements in this bill. We also think that we have a good discussion with the Minister for the Environment, both on marine strategy in general and on the problems that may be involved in balancing, on the one hand, the objection to raw materials at sea and, on the other hand, the need to recover raw materials and, on the other hand, the marine environment and vulnerable areas. And there we have also had a longer discussion about the Øresund, which I expect we will continue to have. After all, the SF wants us to have an internationally protected area. However, in relation to the specific legislative proposal, we would like to point out specifically in relation to the penalty framework in the draft law, which is being raised so that it is aligned with other environmental laws, that we think it is very good and that it is necessary to safeguard the Danish marine environment. This is something that the SF is very concerned about. So we think it is an excellent proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101102	After all, I cannot boast of being new, nor new rapporteur, in this area, and that is why I can at least say as a general consumer information to those who were not there, when we made back in 2009 the law that now needs to be revised, that the amount of consultation answers is extremely limited and that they are kept on a very, very subdued tone. It was probably one of those first times when I saw in the Folketing that matters which one starts by believing are purely technical and very small are also carriers of major commercial and perhaps political and environmental interests, and that is probably still the case. However, I agree that if we can now conclude on the basis of the system we did in 2009 and it took so long that, for almost the same reason, we might not want to change it, it is true that an analysis at least shows that what was already intended at that time, namely that small and medium-sized enterprises should have better opportunities to bid in this area, has apparently not been fulfilled, and then I fully agree with those who say that we should, of course, have clarified in committee whether the changes that are now coming will change that situation. In fact, I think it is very good if we can get more companies into this area, so that not only a few relatively large companies are dominant in this area, and we should then be aware that, from the outset, they are the ones who write the consultation answers. However, the objective here, in any case, I fully agree with is a good idea. I also think that the part of the legislative proposal that is about depriving builders of the possibility of obtaining raw materials free of charge in the so-called common areas is reasonable and reasonable, on the grounds that in this way there is some link between those who make the effort and those who get the opportunity to benefit from the work that has been done. One thing, then, is that it may be reasonable to have the opportunity to find and extract raw materials without having to pay any price for it, but when it comes to the possibility of going into some areas that others have developed and prepared for exploitation, I think it is right that we have it removed. Then there has been a very wide-ranging discussion on the environmental consequences of the extraction of raw materials, which is dealt with only to a limited extent in this draft law, and there has been a great deal of debate in relation to Øresund. We have seen it quite unique that Greenpeace and the Danish fishermen's association have come together to have a common position, which in itself is so remarkable that it calls for immediate interest. It is, of course, a matter of concern that there is over-exploitation of areas such as over-utilisation in the longer term, but also over-exploitation in the short term, because there is a very high level of exploitation within a relatively limited period of time and that the exploitation that is being carried out may also have a much greater environmental impact than was foreseen. There, I think, what is stated in the comments on the draft law, which calls for a ceiling for annual recovery in a number of common areas in addition to the total allowable quantity, is a very good initiative to take, and also for more emphasis to be placed on, and more emphasis to be placed on, the inclusion of environmental assessments in the decision on this, and for more effective control to be carried out in relation to the quantities involved, so that we can take action, if I may say so, before it is too late and before the accident has occurred. I have also noticed that the draft law opens up the possibility of deciding that there are areas where raw materials from the seabed simply cannot be extracted, and we think that is a good element too. Because that, if the political will is there, provides an opportunity to establish what the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, in other words some areas where it is simply said that these areas are generally protected against this form of exploitation and destruction of nature and environmental foundations. So all in all, I can say that this draft law is one of those that we have a clear expectation that we can vote in favour of unless some very strange things emerge from the work of the committee. However, some of the points made in the comments that this will have one or the other consequence must, of course, have been asked in order to be sure that there is evidence to believe that good intentions are also being achieved in the real world, so that we do not make a law that we can already say must be revised in 2-3 years' time, because there is no reason for that. But we're positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101538	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101543	The aim of this draft law, which we are discussing here, is to ensure better opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can participate in auction arrangements applicable in this field of raw materials at sea. We certainly cannot object to this and, as I read the proposal, a number of proposals have also been put together to make it easier to act in this area, both for companies and authorities. Of course, it is not acceptable that there is only one bidder, or perhaps none at all, in the auctions that are taking place. Well, that certainly tells me something's wrong. With this proposal, we are also convinced that we will have more transparency and, above all, easier access to relevant data, which are key prerequisites for building a business case so that we can make a bid at all. With these comments, I would just like to say that we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101649	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101655	Thank you. There are several positive elements to this bill. We are improving competition for recovery companies, not least the small and medium-sized ones and also the brand new players in the industry. There will also be greater transparency in the auction system, which will make biding more attractive. It is also an important element that a legal basis is proposed for the construction of areas where no permit for the extraction of raw materials can be granted. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill, but we also have some concerns that we will raise in committee. We all know that the Øresund is hit extra hard by, for example. sand sucking because it is one of the narrowest waters in Denmark. In view of the fact that there are 85 extraction sites, there should be ample opportunity to spare the Øresund to a greater extent than we do today, and to take more from other, better suitable areas. The Swedes are, to put it mildly, not positive about our extraction in the Sound. They have done so themselves, because in Øresund there is a unique fauna, a unique wildlife that is hit hard. This affects an important part of our nature, but it also affects both commercial fishing and, for example, fisheries. diving tourism. The Ministry has initiated a raw material mapping of Øresund, which will provide a good and necessary overview, and we look forward to that. With this amendment, the Minister will then be able to stop, for example. sand sucking, if it has major consequences. It is really, really fine and really, really important, but the question is whether that is enough. But we support the proposal and we look forward to further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101837	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205101847	First of all, thank you for your contributions, and thank you for the broad support for the main thrust of this proposal and, as I have heard from the rapporteurs, there was at least broad support. As a society, we need raw materials such as sand and gravel. This is the whole foundation for building new houses and bridges and roads. Most materials we have to buy outside the country's borders, but precisely sand and gravel we can actually find in Denmark both on land and on the seabed. The raw materials on the seabed thus constitute a valuable resource for Denmark, and we must make use of them, also in order to save on the raw materials that are extracted on land. At the same time, however, we must also protect the seabed and safeguard the animals and plants that live there, and that is why recovery must be sustainable. It must not go beyond valuable nature or areas of particular importance for fisheries. The draft law must therefore, on the one hand, provide a good framework for the extraction of raw materials and, on the other hand, make it more attractive for small and medium-sized enterprises to extract sand and gravel at sea. It also offers employment opportunities in small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, the draft law must ensure that the extraction of raw materials is not allowed where it would have unacceptable consequences for the environment, fisheries or other important social interests. In addition, the bill must ensure the best use of the sand that still needs to be removed in order to maintain shipping lines and ports or in connection with the excavation of new installations at sea. As far as possible, it should be used for something sensible and not just dumped somewhere on the seabed where it is of no use. We must make optimal use of our resources. In 2009, the former government introduced an auction system and a remuneration to the State for the extraction of raw materials at sea. The aim of the new rules was to promote competition in the raw materials sector, thereby making the industry more efficient and at the same time providing space for both large and small enterprises. However, an evaluation of the new rules in 2012 showed that the scheme had not contributed to the promotion of competition and that the auctions were largely only interesting for the larger companies. Therefore, it was also included as one of the recommendations to change the auction system in the Government's competition policy proposal from 2012. This bill follows up on the recommendations by proposing a number of changes to make the auction system more transparent and make it more attractive for companies to bid, for example. the exclusive right period is extended from 5 to 10 years in order to allow undertakings to deduct the costs of placing an area over a longer period of time. There are also changes which particularly improve the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in auctions, for example. that it will be the one who offers the highest cubic meter price that wins the auction. As it is now, it is the cubic meter price times the quantity offered that is crucial. The proposal means that you can win an auction even if you do not offer a large quantity. At the same time, the draft law should make it more attractive to plan areas for common mining activities. We do, among other things. by eliminating the distortion of the system resulting from the current rule on free-of-charge recovery in common areas for construction projects at sea adopted by law. As I said, the proposal must also protect the marine environment against mining. The draft law provides for the possibility of identifying areas where no permit for the extraction of raw materials can be granted or limited in scope. Specifically, we need to use this opportunity to protect the areas that will be designated by the Marine Strategy Directive and we will be able to use it to develop new areas where extraction of raw materials is to be phased out or limited. This will ensure both healthy ecosystems and habitats on the seabed, and it will give greater predictability to recovery companies who know beforehand that they cannot expect permission in these areas. It is also one of the points raised by several rapporteurs in the debate on the Øresund that we are thus ensuring that a legal basis is provided for this, in the light of the studies we are currently carrying out on the conditions in the Øresund, that we will be able to apply such a legal basis. That has not yet been decided upon. This will be done on the basis of the study currently under way at the Øresund. As a follow-up to the legislative proposal, I would also like to consider whether in future we need to tighten up the requirements for the environmental studies that need to be the basis for obtaining a recovery permit. The proposal also strengthens the supervision of mining and quarrying. We are introducing, among other things, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. A duty to provide information, and we will ensure that we can withdraw authorisations if it turns out later that, for example, there is a duty to provide information. are essential environmental considerations that make it necessary. But when we then extract sand from the sea, we must also ensure that it is used in the best possible way and that the sand we remove from ports and waterways is not applauded, as it is called, somewhere else on the seabed where it does not benefit, but rather rather creates problems. That is why we are also amending the law so that in future it will require sand suitable for example. coastal protection or facilities at sea or on land, also to be recovered. What can be done If we make better use of raw materials, we can both save on recovery elsewhere at sea or on land, and we can minimise the amount of material dumped on the seabed. We can therefore reduce the environmental impact both of mining and of clapping. In short, the draft law must ensure a good balance. On the one hand, we must support good and equal competition for the recovery of raw materials at sea and, on the other hand, we must protect the important habitats and ecosystems on the seabed. That's what we're gonna do with this bill. It is clear that, as several speakers have said, there will be an opportunity to ask follow-up questions in committee, and of course we would be happy to answer that in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205102433	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205102450	The debate is open. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205102513	Thank you. Since the Left rapporteur on the matter, Henrik Høegh, has no opportunity to be present, I have promised to read his speech. The municipalities issue an obligation to improve cleaning or sewerage to a number of property owners, which may entail one-off costs of up to approx. 80,000 kroner. The bill provides aid schemes for property owners with an annual household income of less than DKK 300,000. with an add-on of about DKK 39,000. for each child, up to four children living at home. The aid scheme consists of the following measures: point 1, the introduction of a minimum period of three years in an injunction from the municipality for improved wastewater treatment, point 2, the waste water supply company establishes the required plant and then offers the property owner a repayment scheme, point 3, the draft law also provides for the permission of the Minister for the Environment to set interest risk and administrative costs, point 4, the draft law also includes a voluntary subscription scheme in which the wastewater supply companies offer to take over the operation of the maintenance of wastewater treatment plants on the private land for ongoing payment, and the companies are required to implement the actual execution of the operation and maintenance in accordance with the supply legislation, point 5, the wastewater supply companies will have to borrow loans for the financing of waste water treatment plants from the landowners seeking a suspension scheme under the law; and, with a minor amendment to the Water Sector Act, it will be eligible as municipality-guaranteed loans and loans will alternatively be available under normal market conditions. The proposal is an advantage in those, we should say well-upholstered, rich municipalities and for utilities that have the economy and resilience to it, but for other municipalities it can, at worst, push the supply company to the brink of bankruptcy and increase taxes for citizens. I hereby allow myself to read directly from a passage in the bill itself quote: "All in all, the repayment scheme could result in a loss to the waste water supply company. The draft law provides for such losses to be financed from general waste water tariffs. Thus, all affiliated property owners will have time to cover any total losses which may result from the repayment scheme if the loss cannot be fully covered by the other property owners covered by the scheme. The bill will therefore make it more expensive to be a citizen and a trader in some municipalities, and the increase in the payment for the other users of the wastewater company as a result of a loss is assessed, according to the government, at worst as an average increase at national level of DKK 150. per years over 20 years for a household. We do not agree with the Ministry's estimate of how many people will need this loan pool. The Ministry estimates that it will be around 5 per cent, and thus it will be approx. 1,700 of the affected home owners, who by 2015 will be unable to find the necessary funds, based on samples from Guldborgsund, Syddjurs and Hjørring Municipalities. But the real need is much greater. Guldborgsund and Lolland Municipalities state in their hearing answer that, for example, the municipality of Lolland has an expectation of an extent of at least 15-20 per cent. of the citizens concerned. This would entail considerable financial burden for Lolland Supply, which would then result in other consumers being placed in the supply area. The National Association of Municipalities even believes that it is about 10%. at national level, which needs help, which is a doubling of government estimates. The National Association of Municipalities proposes the establishment of a state loan pool, but this has been rejected by the government. In the Left, we are sceptical about the lack of economic content of the bill and because it is only about an internal credit system that will put some municipalities in a difficult situation. That is why, between the first and second readings, we will be tabling an amendment calling for the scheme to be voluntary for the municipalities, because otherwise it will destroy the economy of the utilities and thus become expensive for the individual citizen of the municipalities where 15-20 per cent. will require loans, whereas it will be an advantage in municipalities where 1-2 per cent. are eligible for loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205102957	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Torben Hansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103015	Social democracy believes that there is a need for increased wastewater treatment and sewerage in the open country. One of the major sources of pollution today is often one-off properties, and as far back as 1997 it was actually decided to take action against this waste water pollution. After all, this has not gone quite as expected, and in relation to the water plans it is also clear that action must be taken against more than 30.000 properties at national level. Of course, it is quite untenable that there have been individual cases of low-income citizens who really cannot afford sewerage and have been reported to the police. Social democracy has no desire to punish them, but rather to help them so that we can solve their problem both in relation to their property and also solve the problem of waste water in the open country. That is why the Social Democratic Party welcomes this proposal with great satisfaction. It will therefore be possible for the least well-off to be repaid, and it will also be possible for the waste water company to offer to all those connected to it the possibility, on payment, of taking over the operation and maintenance of the sewers on private land. That part is voluntary for the companies, but for the Social Democratic Party it is important that this law establishes an opportunity for the least well-off to have sewered and that we hopefully avoid disputes between citizens, municipalities, police and the judiciary due to a lack of opportunities for the individual to sewer his property • a sewer which is necessary as it is a major source of pollution in the open country. With those comments, the Social Democratic Party can of course endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103206	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103212	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we also support the proposal. It is true that when the decision was taken at the time to set up sewers in open land, there were some unintended consequences, one might say. There are at least some citizens who have been affected and who have been reported to the police and who are in a situation which we are trying to remedy with this particular proposal. That is the whole purpose of it, namely to help those citizens who have come into a situation where they simply cannot borrow money and where they can then risk punishment, which seems deeply ridiculous somewhere, given that we do not want to punish anyone, we really just want to have some waste water cleaned. That is why we support the proposal. I will, of course, look at the Left's proposal as to whether it should be voluntary. What has been important to the Danish People's Party when we talked about this was that if the cost for others who can pay is too high, we agreed that we should meet again. It was an absolute demand from the Danish People's Party. Precisely because we do not think it is right that it should be imposed on others, we must find a solution, because it is we who have created the problem or the task or how to say it. We've got that through, which is why it's very clear that of course we'll meet if this turns out to be quite different numbers than we've started from. Therefore, it can be quite excellent to sit and look at figures from KL and from the government etc. etc., but basically it doesn't matter, because when reality hits us, it's really the one we start from. That is why I think it is a good proposal. We have also agreed that, regardless of whether such a charge comes from a municipality, region or state, this possibility will be open to the citizen, and I think that is very good, because a citizen does not really matter if he is given such a injunction, which authority gives it. So I actually think it is a very good deal we have made here, and we support it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103417	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103431	This bill on changing payment rules is, of course, like a way of dealing with a problem that has arisen. It can be said that when you as a citizen have waste water, it is quite common for you to be connected to a sewage company or treatment company, a waste water company, to pay a connection fee and to have your waste water cleaned, because in fact it also sometimes contains environmentally hazardous substances. And for the sake of our aquatic environment, it is very important that we have cleaned our waste water. In fact, it was decided in the Folketing back in 1997 and in this government's time we have tightened up because there were a number of municipalities that had not been enforced, it can be said, the obligation to have sewage treated throughout the municipality. This, on the other hand, meant that a number of citizens were caught because they were required to be connected to the sewage treatment plant or the sewage system and, in this way, suddenly got a big bill. We have seen examples, also on television, of how some had been reported to the police and were actually concerned that they could go to prison because they could not pay the bill to the supply company. That is totally unacceptable, and that is why we have been working for a long time now on a solution in the conciliation circle to find a way, without punishing the citizens who have actually been paid and who have done what is necessary for a number of years, to do something to help the most disadvantaged, so that they do not end up in such a quite unreasonable situation. That is why the Radical Left is pleased that we have found a solution where we have a reasonable income limit, i.e. the DKK 300,000, and in this way we can come to the most needed help. The bill then also contains an extended injunction period. In other words, the municipalities must give a deadline of three years, and that also means that, as the draft law states, the municipality is obliged to offer this repayment scheme, as we propose. Another part of the bill goes to the municipalities where they wanted to double sewer and try to get subsidies for it. There, we believe, it would be a dangerous way to move on to the same model. On the other hand, the draft law makes it possible to have a subscription scheme so that each utility company can actually make a subscription scheme so that it can take over the operation of the power lines of the individual landowners and thus reduce the price that could be imposed at some point if there is to be double sequestration or separate sequestration in an area. So the Radical Left thinks that we have come to a very good balance where we come to the rescue of some people who are in a weak financial position and have suddenly received a high cost. We do so in a local way, that is to say, that the supply company, which already has a relationship with the individual citizens through its connection with the supply company, will be able to obtain a system so that the problem can be resolved in a memorable manner locally. We look forward to the committee reading and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103839	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205103850	As my colleagues have also mentioned, the effort in relation to waste water discharges in the open country was decided by the Danish Parliament back in 1997, but it has not been carried out at the expected rate and there is something of a backlog. Therefore, the government also decided in the water plans that action should be taken before the end of 2015 against approx. 35,000 buildings, either by improving cleaning on the individual buildings or by sewering them. We all agree that it is good and necessary, and people living in the open country have also known for a long time. Nor should it be held against the current Minister for the Environment, because it was under the former Minister for the Environment that we were in the situation that, despite the fact that people had known for a long time that they had to be joined, it was at a fairly short notice. After all, it's pretty expensive to be connected to 70,000 to 80,000 kroner. It can easily cost us and therefore we were in the situation that, although it was reasonable that we were connected and that there were some environmental considerations and that it was also reasonable in relation to everyone else who had to pay for it, people did not necessarily have money on the account to pay for this. The story of that is that a broad majority of the parties in here thought we had to do something, and that is why we had a discussion with the Minister for the Environment. I think that it is indeed a good process that we have together tried to strike a balance between getting this going and at the same time setting up an aid scheme for those who cannot afford it. There are, after all, many of the people who live in the open country who have some properties that may not be worth so much and who may have fallen in value, and just not all people in this country have $80,000. standing on the account or that can borrow them. So I think it is very good that we have found a system in which no one should risk jail time because they do not have the money to join. And that is why we in the SF have been very concerned about getting an arrangement, and I would also like to thank the Minister for entering into this discussion with the parties of the Folketing in a good way. The second element of the bill, which we are very pleased about, is that the waste water companies will have the opportunity to offer to everyone who is connected to sewage to take over operation and maintenance. This can be an environmental gain because the expertise of waste water companies is used to manage and clean waste water for the benefit of the environment. It is a voluntary scheme which should benefit everyone. Both parts of the bill we are very, very happy about from the SF, and we think, as I said, that it has been a good process and SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205104140	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205104148	There are at least two good reasons why Enhedslisten can support this bill. Firstly, all the measures proposed are progress in relation to today's state of affairs, and secondly, it is the expression of an agreement reached by the Government with the Enhedslisten. One might say that the first thing was unnecessary when one said the second, but for the sake of those who may not see it quite as simple as me, it has to be said. We think it was a really sensible decision when the government said that the old decision should now be made that untreated waste water should no longer be discharged into the open country. We thought this to be a very important point, and I understand from some of the debate that is now taking place on water plans that, in this case, we have a great deal of support from agricultural organisations, which at least devote a great deal of energy to talking about how terrible it is that we do not have the same tough and good rules in relation to agriculture in relation to the discharge of waste water. We are helping that a little bit here, and I hope we get thanks for that. The consequence of making such demands is that the costs that then come must be financed, they must be paid. It is clear that, from the outset, the citizen only has to comply with the rules that have been laid down, but what we were able to see was that we had a very large number of cases, including in the media, about people who were actually threatened with punishment, not because they would not have been able to do so, and there have been negotiations with the government. I do not have to hide the fact that the proposal made by Enhedslisten was to establish some form of state loan scheme. We negotiated this at length with the government, and the government did not want it, but wanted to see something else: the model that lies here. And since the model here, from the point of view of the economically disadvantaged person, is all right, and the funding in my view does not in any way threaten the economic survival of the water companies or, for that matter, the individual water consumer is incurring a high additional cost, because it is the intention that the money should be paid back, and it is to be expected that a large part of them will actually be, we think that this has been a good and sensible solution to the challenge we are facing. It is clear that we can also discuss what kind of money you start with when you're going to be covered by this scheme. One might well have defined the economically disadvantaged as someone who had a little more money than what is in the draft law here, but we ended up agreeing, and we also agree that this should be a system that is actually targeted at people who are in financial difficulties. I do not quite understand the amendments announced by the Left. It must mean that if you are so unlucky to be poor and live in a poor municipality, then you have to pay or go to prison yourself, but if you are fortunate enough to be poor and live in a rich municipality, where there is also a certain amount of social responsibility and that is not always combined, then I should like to say that you are covered by this scheme. I have to admit, I don't understand. At least I think it is a really bad solution if there is a problem. The last part of the bill is about the possibility of allowing the water company to take over that part of the sewer pipeline, including the sewer sewer, which is the site, and we think that is a very, very good proposal, because this is a huge step forward. However, when I have a slight criticism of it, it is because in our opinion it would be quite obvious if the possibility were given that similar work could also be done without making sewers. In other words, it is a discussion which is taking place in many places that sewering is wiser than just expanding the existing sewers, but in many places it is even wiser to choose a completely third model of how to dispose of the rainwater that, for example, is used. is in one area, and there we think that opening up the system that is now being established with regard to separate sewering could be extended to include other things would be a good idea. We must then just acknowledge that, in relation to the legislative proposal and the agreement we have made with the government here, we have not got any further with it, and that is why, of course, we will vote in favour of the legislative proposal before us, and then we will have to pursue the particular view we have in this area further by other means, and we will of course do so. However, no one should be in any doubt that I am very pleased that we can now adopt a legislative proposal that can help very, very many economically disadvantaged people make the investments that will enable them to also help safeguard the aquatic environment in our country. I am glad that we have found funding for what is solidarity, although we cannot, of course, rule out that better solutions could have been found, and I am at least pleased with the part of what opens up for separate sewering in relation to the landowner, so that a sensible solution can also be found. So we are quite clear about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205104640	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205104645	Thank you. Let it be said straight away: this bill is made in a good sense, because of course the government cannot live with the fact that we have environmental requirements that make ordinary people criminal because they cannot afford to comply with the municipality's environmental requirements. As you know, being reported to the police doesn't make you richer. The draft law here deals in particular with the poor part, I might say, of Denmark, which lives in the very low valued housing in the open country. This part of Denmark, no matter what you call it, has enough to struggle with on a daily basis, and both here in the Danish Parliament and in the municipalities are also spending a lot of time finding solutions. After all, the force behind urbanisation is ruthless for rural areas. Although the aim is right, we still have a great deal of doubt as to whether this legislative adjustment is the right medicine. There is an attempt here to repair a problem by regulating further and by communalising further. Perhaps we would rather go down in it and look at the causes of the problem, and I am thinking not of the economy of the individual, but of the way the environmental rules are managed. There is already a highly regulated system in the environmental field, without there being any certainty that the approx. 35,000 households each represent an environmental problem for our watercourses. Mother's hammer falls quickly, if one is so unfortunate to lie within the circle of the waste water plan which says: Here, waste water has to be cleaned, because the nearby stream has a fauna number called 4 and not 5. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. A single figure is the reason for the requirement. These fauna figures come into the world by a biologist properly kicking twice with his rubber boots down in the stream, after which he or she collects with a net what might come out of cribable, as they call it over in the Danish Nature Agency. So it is not just a chemical measurement or a recording of fish stocks that seems a little more objective, I would say. In addition, in order to obtain an injunction on the abandoned property, which may be 500 metres from the river, the municipality must prove that there is a causal link between the waste water discharge of the property and the figure reached by the biologists when they kicked the rubber boots down the river twice, as stated in the guide. Even if the stream is fine at the outlet, you will also be hit if the stream further downstream has the number 4 instead of 5. That's usually where it gets serious. My point is to mention these factors, which are crucial to whether the municipality reaches the point where it has to issue an injunction which costs the citizen DKK 80 000. to meet, and thus potentially creates a payment problem for the citizen, is that one could solve a much larger part of the problem in this case by writing to the municipalities that now you have to prove that there really is pollution from the property before you go to arrest for environmental fraud, or whatever we might call it. It is strange that a farmer can deduce manure, so it sails in the tractor tracks across the field, while the housekeeper's own little fart has to excuse the term "sorry" must be cleaned of DKK 80,000. What I have proposed, I consider to be constructive, because I am 100% sure that it will be impossible to prove that all of these 35,000 each cause pollution if you take the trouble to measure at the drain outlet. This would help far more than the 1.750 that the proposal requires, but of course also with a slightly different approach; I agree with that. In this draft law, we will then have a lot of new rules and bordering problems, and that puts a strain on the economy of the utilities, because they have to put the money to very little solid borrowers, you might say. It's going to be a new patch on an even worse patch, I'm afraid, although it's of course good that you try to calm the self-created plagues. In other words, the intention is right, but it does not solve the main problem and brings with it a great deal more bureaucracy. I believe that this cannot be avoided and, above all, the supply companies, as the Left has said, are being burdened, and it is perhaps not entirely possible to expect that these companies have a top banking competence; they have certainly not tried it before. We have a great deal of questions about the proposal on the role of water companies in particular, and so far I have to say that we are weakly in favour of the proposal, considering that it is at least better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105201	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105205	It's because for a moment I thought I heard Mr. Villum Christensen suggests that agriculture caused some environmental problems in Denmark, and that is something where you have to breathe many times when you hear it from the Liberal Alliance. But in fact, sir... Mr Villum Christensen's view is that we should not do anything to limit pollution until it has been documented that it has happened and before we have documented who is responsible. This means that the aquatic environment in Denmark must first be contaminated, then we find out who is responsible and then we intervene. Is this the core of Liberal Alliance's environmental policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105242	No, our environmental policy is based on the principles of administrative law. And there are two things that must apply. One is the "official principle" of this kind if you are digging in the legal books and this means that it is the municipality that has to prove that the individual concerned is ordered to be the cause of the pollution in the river by a decision of the administrative court. That's one. And the second is that there must be proportionality, that is, that there must be a link between the investment that is being made and the pollution that is taking place. And that is why I took the example of the manure from agriculture, because there are huge proportionality problems in this. In fact, we have very, very strict requirements for a citizen who lives 500 metres from a stream, and then it happens that, without being likely to be able to measure whether it has an effect, even if there is a principle of administrative law that says that it is the municipality that is responsible for documenting it, the citizen banks. And I think it's much more important to deal with things like this than those Trakasseries that Enhedslisten thinks are funny.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105351	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105353	I am not going to interfere in the debates that may be between the Liberal Alliance and Sustainable Agriculture in this matter, but I just want to ask whether Mr. Villum Christensen cannot admit that all of his lawyers cover up the fact that the Liberal Alliance believes that before we can do anything to ensure a better water environment in Denmark, a concrete pollution must be detected and it must be demonstrated who is specifically responsible. Until you've done it, there's nothing you can do. That is the consequence of Mr. Villum Christensen's talk, although he now tried to dress that law, so that it would become incomprehensible to most. But that's what he said and what he repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105429	Well, then, I just have to be brief and say that it is also common sense to know that there is a cause-effect relationship, and that is actually clear from the law, as Mr. Per Clausen can see if he looks up the comments of the law and looks at what it takes to give an injunction. You have to be able to document it. What matters here is that you don't. One calculates itself to it as with the windmills and all the other things we have discussions about regarding the open country. You don't document it. Because, of course, we should not smear our creeks, but we must be sure that pollution takes place exactly in accordance with the wording of the law before we knock people in the head.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105512	There is no doubt that there is a need for increased treatment of waste water in the open country and there is a concrete need for action against approx. 35,000 properties by the end of 2015. In this case, either sewage treatment should be carried out, or the treatment should be improved. It costs money, it costs a lot of money, not only for the municipalities and water companies, but it also costs money for the citizens, and there we have a major problem in some parts of the country. Indeed, not everyone has the opportunity to pay for membership, and as you know, this has led to police reports in several places. It is, of course, a really bad situation when it happens, it is for all parties, and it is not least for the citizens concerned that it is suddenly possible to receive a penalty because it is in the Community's interest to make these efforts. And we must therefore help those citizens. On the one hand, we cannot help but do something because people cannot pay. We cannot do this because it is in the interests of the Community and of nature and the environment that we should make efforts in the open country as necessary. On the other hand, we also have no interest in police reporting and creating conflicts and concerns, because people do not have the opportunity to pay for membership. We therefore welcome the fact that economic aid is now being given in the form of a loan to those citizens who are not able to pay for membership but who need it. The government, not least on the basis of a good dialogue with the Conservative People's Party, proposes that households with an annual household income below DKK 300,000. must be able to take out a loan. The Ministry then estimates that with this income limit it may be relevant for approx. 5% of the affected 35,000. The second element of the proposal concerns the possibility for waste water companies to take over the operation and maintenance of sewers on private land, of course against payment, and we can also support that. In view of the warm and intense debate over the water companies in recent days, it is really wonderful to be able to go on weekends in almost broad agreement on an important matter in this area. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105736	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205105745	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for varyingly positive statements on this draft law. This is something we have been discussing over a long period of time, and therefore it was certainly my expectation that the arrangement we had jointly arrived at could have the support of the Folketing. However, most recently by the Law on Water Planning here in the Danish Parliament, we have adopted a goal that we must ensure good conditions in the Danish waters. If we are to do so, we also need an effort to prevent uncleaned waste water from our toilets and drains in our homes from leaking into the aquatic environment. We know that it contributes to and causes oxygen loss and fish death. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where the greatest need for purification exists in some of the places in the country where there are already serious economic challenges. The starting point for our wastewater treatment is that each home owner has to pay for a pipe from his house to the sewer or to clean the waste water on the site. It can be said that here too the polluter pays principle applies. We stick to that principle, but it should not be the case, on the other hand, that we criminalise citizens who are in an economically difficult situation and cannot pay. As several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, there have been some sad cases in which citizens have been reported to the police because they have not been able to pay to join the sewage system or otherwise improve wastewater treatment on their land. That's why this bill is designed to help the smaller group of property owners. The government does not want us to punish property owners for being financially constrained. It is a shared responsibility to ensure a clean water environment, and that is why we want to help the most crowded homeowners so that we can have everyone with us and protect the aquatic environment throughout Denmark. The draft law consists of two main elements: an aid scheme for those who are most economically in need and a subscription scheme for all. The municipalities will be obliged to offer the aid scheme. It provides for a minimum period of three years for the payment of obligations and a 20-year repayment scheme for the property owners who are financially deprived. The government suggests that property owners with an annual household income below DKK 300,000. additional allowances for children living at home will be granted access to the assistance scheme. It is just above what two folk pensioners or two cash benefits recipients earn. I'm just saying that to put the amount in perspective. With the aid scheme, the property owner gets at least 3 years to save up to pay for his own sewering or cleaning solution, and if the 3 years are not enough to raise the money, the owner will get a repayment scheme. It means that the waste water company establishes the necessary solution to the site and then offers the owner to pay back the costs over 20 years at an interest rate of 5.9% as it is right now. The long term ensures that the instalments come down to an order of magnitude that most people will be able to handle. In practice, this is approx. 500-600 kr. a month by a solution that costs $80,000, and it is highly rated. It is intended that the repayment scheme should be financially resting in itself in the waste water company. Any losses will therefore initially be covered by the other borrowers in the repayment scheme and, if there is a total loss for the waste water company on the loan scheme, the loss may subsequently be covered by the charges for the other users of the company. As Mrs Pia Adelsteen mentioned, the Ministry of the Environment will continuously draw data from the utility company to ensure that any losses at national level are kept below this DKK 150. over a 20-year period for the average household. I guess that's 150 kroner. overall over a 20-year period. It was said every year, but it is therefore our view that the scope of the scheme here will be that if all the citizens who will be covered by this aid scheme default their loans, the total risk borne by other consumers will be DKK 150. over 20 years. So it is very limited risk that, with the limit of DKK 300 000 that we have put, will be passed on to the other consumers associated with the same waste water company. So I must also say to the Left's proposal to do this voluntarily, that with the risk we estimate there is for the other consumers, I would say that it is very far-reaching to do as the Left proposes, namely to make this a voluntary scheme, because it will mean: 1) that we will not solve the environmental problems; and 2) that not all citizens in Denmark who are financially under threat will be able to have this aid scheme, because it will depend on the municipality in which they live. So it is quite clear from the government that we think this system should be compulsory for the municipalities and that the risk is therefore within a range which we think is reasonable. Then there's this thing with the limit of how many people should be included. Sir. Per Clausen mentioned that it was obvious to wish that more could be covered by this scheme and where the limit is equal to when you are financially crowded or not. Once we've picked a boundary at this 300,000 kroner. And so it will be for those, the citizens who are most economically in need, for a number of reasons. After all, the payment rules in the waste water sector have been the same for many years. For decades, other property owners have paid contributions to the sewer community and to the sewer work on their own property. And the buildings where the purification now needs to be improved have so far had very low costs compared to others. Therefore, we do not think it would be fair to provide those property owners with significantly better funding than the others who have already established it here. In addition, if the citizens do not pay their repayments, the loss can be passed on, as I have just said, to the other property owners in the sewage community, and it also advocates narrowing the circle which is involved in the scheme in order to minimise that risk. We therefore believe that the present proposal has a reasonable scope. Then there have been proposals that the aid scheme should also include citizens who have been ordered to separate sewers. But here we have to distinguish between requirements arising from a state requirement for wastewater treatment and when separate sewage treatment is used as one of many solutions to handle large amounts of rainwater. There are alternative solutions which do not impose new construction costs on the property owner. So citizens with orders to separate sewers aren't part of this installment scheme. On the other hand, we have chosen to introduce this new subscription system, which then also offers opportunities for citizens who are subject to separate sewer requirements. For this subscription scheme, the waste water companies will be able to offer to everyone connected to the sewers the possibility of taking over the operation and maintenance of the sewers on the private land on payment, i.e. this subscription system. This also applies to the possible establishment of separate sewers. So in this way we can use the expertise of waste water companies to improve and streamline the management and treatment of waste water for the benefit of the environment. From a wider perspective, I expect that the subscription scheme will result in more efficient waste water management with fewer errors, fewer wiring breaks, fewer problems with, for example, waste water management. rats, and it provides a more effective handling of our sewage. So, with the present model, we will ensure that, on the one hand, we maintain the efforts of waste water treatment in the open country for the benefit of the environment and, on the other hand, that we also address the problem faced by some citizens, because they are in a difficult economic situation. With the proposal here, we should like to avoid the sad cases we have seen where one can be reported to the police because one cannot afford to pay the contribution. So this is a solidarity proposal that comes to the aid of those in our most economically needed rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205110623	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141205110639	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 9 December 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
