ParlaMint-DK_20141126130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the rental of commercial premises, etc.) Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 83 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Working Conditions. Bill No. L 84 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the legal relationship between employers and employees. Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. Β 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of citizens' motions for resolutions). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new preparatory school for young people (reform of hf)). Mette Bock (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reorganization of fertilization rules). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130100	I have to inform you that Morten Marinus under No. 12 questions put to the Minister for Culture, Question No 12 S 308, to be converted into a written reply. The first question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130127	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that there are initiatives in the agreement on the Finance Act which increase the incentive to work for the 333,000 people who today have a weak incentive to work, cf. The Minister's own statement • Sharing and Incentives 2013 •?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130149	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130153	Last week I had the opportunity to answer a question which was very similar to what has been asked here today at the same time, in the same place, but very much again. The agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 in isolation does not contribute to increasing the incentive to work, but it does not change the fact that I am satisfied with the Finance Act and our policy in general. When I am extremely satisfied with the Finance Act, it is because it strengthens welfare within a financially responsible framework, and I think that is really an achievement in these years when the maneuvering possibilities in the Danish economy are very limited. The Danish economy was heavily overheated when the international economic crisis hit us, and we are still struggling to rectify that today. In addition to the annual implementation of public discretion, the government has implemented a series of reforms which help to increase economic incentives to be in employment and reduce the number of people with relatively weak incentives to work. If we take the tax reform as an example, it will help to reduce the 330,000 by a net compensation rate of over 80%. to about 250,000 people when it is phased in. This means, of course, that we have taken a quite considerable number of those who had a relatively weak incentive to work and with the tax reform brought them into a new situation, and the reforms we have carried out here all together lead to structural employment being expected to increase by around 30.000 people by 2020 and, in addition, the contribution comes from the withdrawal reform, for which I would very much like to take part in the co-responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130336	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130338	Thank you. There is, of course, a recognition here that the Finance Act does not, in fact, contribute to increased employment in Denmark, and I find this very boring, because that is what should be the government's primary objective in a situation where we need to create more growth in Denmark. However, one of the elements of the Finance Act is about mutual dependents, and the Minister has already said and called the mutual dependents a roommate quite fair. Why, then, should it be removed by means of the Finance Act? Because I assume that the Minister agrees that this helps to weaken the incentive to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130425	But it is true that with the reform of the social security system, we introduced the principle of mutual support to cohabitants. When we phase it out again in the financial law agreement we have made now, it is, after all, due to a common ambition with those with whom we made a financial law agreement to give an extra hand to the weakest in the Danish society, the unemployed who have the least in their hands. And that was the solution we could find. This could have been done in other ways, but it was within a purpose that we agreed, namely that the time had now come to look at some of the families that have the most difficulty in Danish society, as we have done in the past. So on that basis, we made that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130507	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130508	One can discuss whether it is also the most disadvantaged who help when we remove the mutual dependency that the Minister previously thought was quite fair. Because it is also about the fact that there are now roommates where one earns 50,000, 70,000 kroner, who will then again receive cash benefits. There you can discuss whether they are weak or not, I don't mean it. But in relation to the Danes who work, I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that there are still 46 000 Danes who go to work but who have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130557	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130558	I am very pleased about this question because it gives me the opportunity to make it clear that it must not be the case for anyone in Danish society that they are considering choosing between working or being on a transfer income. After all, the prerequisite for those who are ready to work for unemployment benefit or cash benefits is that they are available for the labour market and take up the work that is to be done. Our ambition to have a strong social safety net and a high level of compensation, which means that being brought into unemployment is not necessarily an economic disaster right now and here, therefore, presupposes that one is available. That is why I firmly believe that it only works if we also have the will to work, even where the difference is not too great. There we can also see that by far, by far, the vast majority of those who have a weak incentive to work the 330,000, this issue is actually about work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130652	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130655	A large part of the Danish population had the opportunity a few days ago to see a horrifying program on DR 1, • The day the strangers disappeared. There were unpleasant examples of how ready-to-work people, Danes, opt out of a job available to live on a transfer income, as it is thought to be more comfortable. Of course, I'm sorry with my colleague, sir. Hans Andersen to trouble the Minister to come to the Parliamentary Chamber again when the Minister thinks he has answered once, but perhaps this is because the answers have not been further satisfactory or epoch-making. After all, the Trade and Industry Council of the Workers' Movement is touring around with a study, which the Minister also mentioned, where it is said that 73 per cent. of the people on the labour market have suffered from work and yet do so. That's nice. I agree with the Minister that this is sensible, but should we not give them a little more? Shouldn't we reward them a little extra? I can see that the Radical Left, with Mr. Morten Østergaard is in charge of a campaign where you listen to people, not voters. But there are people on DR 1 in the evening who choose to say no to working and living in the public sector instead. And there are plenty of people who get little out of it. Shouldn't the Minister adjust the policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130806	Thank you for your attention to our new slogan, which is now • It's about people •. But I don't want it to separate us. I think that what you have to take stock of, even when you're in Mr. Knox's office. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt's situation is that today we have more for whom it pays to work. We have reduced the group of those who have a weak incentive to work through our tax reform. And this has happened under this government, unlike the government of Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt's party led before we took over. That is why I do not think it is a fair accusation to say that this is not something we are concerned with. We are concerned that it should pay for work. However, in relation to the debate that has taken place in question, it does not alter the fact that whether you have a weak or strong incentive to do so, the prerequisite for obtaining public support in Denmark, if you are ready for the labour market, is that you take the work that is to be done. And if the rules do not adequately support it, you have to look at them when you have to look at the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130906	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130909	After all, I do not bear the same degree of political grudge as the Minister does over previous periods of government, as I have not been in the Folketing for so long. But it also gives reason to see things in a slightly new way. And if you listen to people and not just voters, it might be appropriate to consider whether the financial law that you have stood by has done something sensible for the incentive to work. I would be impressed if the Minister could answer anything other than this: no, nothing has actually happened on the front of the last financial law on which such a vote has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130946	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126130947	Unfortunately, that is what I call gold fishing logic, i.e. the belief in the Folketing that the things you have done at an earlier stage no longer count because you have now made a new political agreement. Before the summer holidays, we made a growth agreement which we are implementing, and which is also part of the whole, which is the Finance Act and Bill on the way through the Danish Parliament, which will contribute to the creation of even more jobs in Denmark. And overall, therefore, with the reforms we have made, we have ensured an increase in employment in Denmark, also in 2020, with over 30,000 people. Today, more people have been given a stronger incentive to work than when we took over. That is why we need to look at the government's overall policy and its results, and it is therefore that the incentive is stronger and that there are more in work than when we started.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131037	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen for the final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131039	Should I understand that the Minister actually recognizes in this Chamber that the rules are not sufficient when it comes to being available? Because I understand that the Minister has seen the broadcast, where the unemployed actually end up saying no to jobs available to the unemployed. The contract was there, you had to sign as a freeman. Should I understand that the Minister actually believes that the rules are not sufficient when it comes to being available? At the disposal, I could understand, was like what the Minister put himself on top of when he said: this is the foundation that needs to be made available. But aren't the rules good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131135	The rules are clear. The prerequisite for receiving cash benefits or cash benefits if you are ready for work is that you take the work that is to be done. There is no choice whether to work or to be on transfer income. If you say no to work, you also say no to unemployment benefits. And what I am saying is that if the system is not sufficiently capable of enforcing it, one has to look at it when, when the unemployment benefit commission brings its report, we have to change the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131204	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131212	Yes, and it is a pleasure to be able to continue where we left off, and the question is: What reforms does the Minister think are missing in order for the many available cash aid recipients to get to work, please refer to the Minister's statement to Polito on 20 November 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131232	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131233	Thank you for that question too. I think the questioner knows that reform is of great concern to me. My ambition is, of course, that as many as possible on transfer income should enter employment, and that is why, among other things, we. has implemented tax reform, early retirement reform, cash assistance reform and employment reform. My comments are therefore merely an expression of the fact that we have not finished reforming Danish society and that there are among other things. More needs to be done to get more people into work and fewer are on support. That is why we are currently trying to finalise the reimbursement restructuring which will give the municipalities a greater incentive to find the work that works for the individual, so that we can get from unemployment to jobs, regardless of what we were just talking about, whether it is a cash benefit recipient, a benefit recipient or a sickness benefit recipient. We are also awaiting from the government a report from the Karsten Kock Committee on the committee which gave us the basis for the employment reform which is now looking at the non-labour market unemployed and how we can strengthen the work to bring them back into employment. So there are plenty of moves on the plate, and there is the ambition that more people should be in jobs and fewer must be on support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131341	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt. Jakob Engel-Schmid-Schmidt Thank you for that. Now...yes!). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131342	Thank you. Excuse me, Chairman! Now the Minister was sitting next to his esteemed colleague, the Minister for Finance, and the two gentlemen at least represent some of the most sensible elements of the present government in my view. That is why I venture to ask these questions. Of course, I was a little unhappy before being compared to a political goldfish; the short-term memory of one of these is well over 8 seconds, and after all I consider myself to be a little tougher and, incidentally, also faster in perception. But we can always explore how the Minister fits into the animal kingdom when we get there. However, I shall use my limited Question Time to examine it here when the Minister is so reformative, and I would like to acknowledge that, and many reforms have also been made with our party, the Left; we have been a constructive opposition to the government, and that is what I think is good for the living people's government. But if you were to dive into this very central question of how we motivate more people to work I think it's also about the Danes' sense of what's fair and what's fair in a context where we've been through a number of hard years... the Minister thinks we're doing enough, and does the Minister think that the Finance Act that has been adopted now is doing enough to increase the incentive to work? What I mean is whether, when asked by the government in such a general way, there is a figure as to how many times the municipalities, via the "a' funds, announce that person A or B has turned down a job that has been offered to them. We cannot really get that information, and it is not because I expect the Minister to have that figure, but it happens every day in the municipalities, and I am sitting in one myself. So with that in mind, I would like to say that we have gone a little back on the cash aid reform and my colleague Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen referred to interdependence; it is a political choice, I respect that, although I disagree. But could the Minister not have imagined that more could have been done in the financial law that has just been negotiated? Are there not reforms which the Minister, as a radically sensible politician, would have liked to see carried out and which had increased the incentive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131533	After all, I have repeatedly mentioned a number of reforms which we have carried out and which have increased the incentive to work, not least the tax reform, which, of course, significantly reduced the group of citizens in Denmark, which has a modest or weak incentive to work. After all, the cash aid reform was precisely about the fact that we wanted young people not to benefit from being on cash aid compared to being in education if they were ready for training. Well, there we are. The Finance Act took a number of initiatives which reflected the fact that we have increased the incentive, among other things. The fact that you don't get set off if you rent a room and have a small rental income. I do not know what the Left thinks of it, but I think it is perfectly reasonable and therefore there is no problem for me to say at one and the same time: we have to make forms so that more people are in work and fewer are on support. But we also need to take on board the social spirit and ensure that the safety net works.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131625	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131626	Well, some might think that the minister is moving like a fish in the water, but let's try to pressure boil some of the positions. Could it be imagined that the Minister could support a view calling on all municipalities to immediately activate young people under the age of 30 who are ready for training? This is what you do in Greve, which is what you do in Lyngby-Taarbæk, which means that they can choose to find an education or to be on the patrol either in Dyrehaven or out on Strandvejen, where you renovate, to get the trunk into the public boxes. Could it be imagined that the Minister could be in favour of raising the employment allowance, so that there really will be more than a thousand kroner difference between lying at home on the couch and receiving money from the public and going out and being part of the active labour market and the community that we all want to be a part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131707-2	Well, I can feel it wreaking havoc on Mr. Knox's fingers. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt to fill in some new rules where we have just cleaned up, because that is what we have done with the employment reform. It is a massive debureaucratisation. KL has called what we have done a historic debureaucratisation. And what do we do instead? We are currently completing the negotiations on a refund change, which means that the municipalities must choose exactly what they think has the greatest effect on the individual unemployed. And then, sir... Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt and I are standing in here in Parliament and discussing whether there was a solution that suited all the unemployed in Denmark. However, our line has been different: to place responsibility where it belongs with the municipalities and the case officers who have it, and then, on the other hand, they must also take the economic consequence if they do not do it as well as they could.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131753	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131758	Thank you. Historic debureaucratisation said the Minister. I think the minister should call the National Association of Municipalities and ask if they agree. Because it is true that the two words were mentioned this summer when we concluded the agreement, but some time has passed since then, and now there are differences of opinion as to whether this is now a historic debureaucratisation. I think it should be, but I am not sure that we will end up there, unfortunately. I would like to ask the Minister a question. The Minister mentions the cash benefits reform, but is it not true that the elements involved in the cash benefits reform bring the government together with the SF and the Enhedslisten back when it comes to mutual dependants, and when it comes to the young people's rate of increase, so that it no longer pays to go to work to the same extent or to take an education for young people under the age of 30?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131859	Well, as I have answered earlier, you have to see things in context. These reforms together contribute to increasing employment by 30,000 people by 2020, including a good contribution from the cash aid reform, because we give young people a solid incentive to be in education or work rather than on cash assistance. But that does not prevent me from also having opinions on how the safety net should be set up, and that is where we agreed with our financial partners to make a package for the most disadvantaged unemployed, those in the cash assistance system. And one of the elements that I have mentioned before is, for example, that young people who get this lower benefit are no longer counted against if they rent out a room so that they can stay in their apartment. I do not know what the Left thinks of it, but I think it is perfectly reasonable and I have no problem both in favour of reform and in favour of a proper social safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131948	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126131951	Yes, but now the social safety net consists of that in relation to roommates, where one earns 50,000 kroner. or 40,000 kroner, the boyfriend must continue to be able to receive cash benefits. That's the government's answer. I think you should have stood firm. In other words, I have heard the former Minister of Employment repeatedly argue why we should have mutual dependants. And then we should have solved the problem of taxation. We would then have been able to maintain that there should be no discrimination in relation to whether you are married or roommate. I think that should have been done, and I regret that the government did not hold on to that. But what is the government's response to the cash aid recipients who are now going to work and who can see that it is better to stay at home because of the abolition of the mutual dependent?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132044	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132046	Well, hopefully the answer is the same, whether you're part of the government or you're part of the Left, namely that it's not a choice someone has to make, whether they want to be on cash benefits or they want to be in work. What is needed is to ensure that the work that is to be done in Denmark is also communicated to the unemployed. This is what our joint employment reform is about, where we have just removed a number of rules and, on the other hand, increased the incentive for municipalities to take an interest in what is the shortest way for the unemployed they are dealing with. And I hope that the negotiations on this refund system will be completed soon, so that it can be put into effect. But that doesn't change the fact that no matter who you are, you have to be available for the labour market if you want to have transfer income in Denmark or else everything ends up. And where the Left and Mr. Hans Andersen owes an answer, is: Do you have the opposite view? Well, do you think that if it doesn't pay off, you shouldn't? I do not think we are doing that, and that is why we must be pleased that the vast majority of those who have a weak incentive to be at work are actually doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132149	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmid-Schmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132151	The Left Party believes in a concept called motivation. I do not know whether the Minister also believes that being motivated to do something increases the likelihood of doing so. That is the basic logic to which we are committed. However, this is an interesting debate which almost takes on a religious character in this Chamber. No matter what questions we ask the Minister, in relation to what you want to do and whether you think you have done enough, we get the same answer: there is nothing more to come for. But I think that as a representative of the intellectual Denmarks such unconditional epicenter, the Minister must have considered whether there is anything else that can be done. Are there other things you can do to get more Danes to get to work and get a job? I think it might be interesting to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132232	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132234	Now there are many words flying back and forth, and we were talking about the short-term memory, so I would like to repeat what I mentioned earlier. We are awaiting a report from the Carsten Koch Committee on the non-employment unemployed. We are in the process of negotiating this reimbursement system, which will increase the incentive for municipalities as we debureaucraticise their efforts. And there are certainly plenty of other things you can do in the coming years. There should be no doubt that we want more people in jobs and fewer people in support. We are trying to deal with this in the short term by holding our hands during employment and, fortunately, we can see that it is increasing and, at the same time, we are trying within the responsible framework to make reforms without the social security network erode away.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132318	The question is closed. Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. The next question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132330	Thank you. The question is: what, according to the Minister's assessment, will be missing in the funding basis for the 2015 Finance Act if the oil price remains at the current level, which is approx. $78 a day. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132351	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132351-2	Yes, thank you very much. With the draft budget for 2015, financial policy was organised to take full advantage of the room for manoeuvre available and to go all the way to the limits of the Budget Act and the Stability and Growth Pact. In this way, the structural deficit was estimated at 1⁄2%. of GDP in 2015 and the actual deficit was estimated at 3%. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. It was a deliberate choice made by the government so that fiscal policy could support growth and employment as far as possible within the framework of a responsible fiscal policy. We have maintained that line in fiscal policy with the Financial Law Agreement concluded by the government with Enhedslisten and SF. It is an ambitious agreement and it is also a responsible agreement. It meets the requirements of the budget law, it complies with the expenditure ceilings and there are no gaps in its financing. We also meet the objectives of sound public finances in our 2020 plan, and we plan economic policy so that there is sustainability in the long term. And then, above all, there is a structural balance in public finances by 2020. As regards the 3-percent limit on the actual balance of the EU Stability and Growth Pact, it is true that lower growth in the economy and lower oil prices compared to the August assessment alone increase the risk that the deficit on the actual balance exceeds 3%. However, the government has already dealt with the risk that the actual deficit could be greater than was the case in August, and the government did so at the beginning of October. This was why the government agreed with SF and Enhedslisten to implement a pension package. The pension package introduces an incentive for a little earlier payment of funds in the LD, and the possibility of converting the capital pension into an old-age pension with a tax advantage extends to 2015. This pension package is estimated to improve the general government balance by 3/4 per cent. of GDP in 2015, corresponding to 15 billion. kr. Thus, a safety margin has been established for the deficit threshold for the actual deficit, thus minimising the risk that Denmark will receive a new EU recommendation on the basis of the actual deficit level in 2015. Finally, it should be noted that I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that in the autumn forecast published earlier this month by the European Commission, the European Commission has taken account of the slightly weakened international economic situation and other new and relevant information, including the government's pension package, and that estimates the actual Danish public deficit at 2.3 per cent. Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 21 December 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. This is the European Commission's assessment that the government deficit remains on the right side of the 3-percent limit in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132632	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132634	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is something in the review which shows that the government has slightly changed rhetoric in this area, because when the Minister for Finance presented his draft Finance Act last year, it was with a deficit lower than this year, but then the Minister for Finance thought last year that it was irresponsible to go further. It has obviously become responsible to go further this year compared to last year. I do not know what has changed in the government's precautionary principle or anything else, which means that the Minister of Finance now believes that it is fair and safe to move closer to the border, in fact to the border, in relation to what EU rules allow. When the Minister so rightly says that it of course increases the risk of greater deficits if the oil price is lower than provided and if growth is lower than provided, then it is just that we are some who are pretty concerned with what it really means. Because when we see today that the price of oil, as I have said, is around $78 per dollar. the barrel and the government operate at a price of $110 per. I think most people can see that it makes a difference. That is why the Minister for Finance must be able to answer the question: what will become of a gap in the Finance Act if the conditions laid down are 110 dollars per annum. the barrel doesn't hold. There are other economists who have been out making estimates of this, and I think that the Minister for Finance also has a calculator or two over in the Ministry of Finance who could make a bid for it. I think it is appropriate to know it today instead of just pushing it until a financial statement comes sometime in December, because then it may be too late to make it right. So if the Minister wants to live up to his own precautionary principle, I know that this may be a little difficult, there should be an answer today: what is the consequence if we get an oil price that is significantly lower than what the government expects?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132841	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132843	The consequence is that things are under control in the scenario, as the answer clearly indicated, and the questioner could stick to that. Government action has been taken in relation to any risks to the actual government balance. And the very best place to listen, if you are interested in asking whether that part of the matter is under control, is, of course, among those who judge it in relation to the rules that we observe, namely the European Commission, which has made a new assessment of Danish public finances on the basis of the information that the Left is trying to use to create uncertainty. And they consider that Denmark is so clearly on the safe side. This is quite contrary to the fact that the Left was responsible for the Ministry of Finance, where one did not stay on the safe side of these borders and thus triggered an EU recommendation to Denmark. So there is a certain amount of experience with this kind of conduct on the part of the previous government, but not on this government's watch.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132931	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126132933	Yes, but when you look at those at home who have to keep an eye on whether the Finance Act meets the objectives, the message from the economic wise men was that, according to the wise men, the government's financial bill was operating with a deficit of 3.6 per cent. I don't know if that was the background, but the Minister of Finance did this exercise of bringing forward some money that would otherwise have come into the treasury later on. They'll be missing out of years and then he says it's a budget improvement of 3⁄4 per cent. If we then look at the figures of the wise men, which, by the way, operates with an oil price that is very similar to that of the government, then there is still a gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133019	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133021	That is simply not correct. In other words, we may disagree politically, but I think the questioner should do his homework before he gets up in the Chamber and tries to have a debate on these issues. The wise men have subsequently indicated that with the pension package they consider this issue to be handled. Where it is, of course, most important to listen, there is where you monitor whether these limits are respected. This is what the European Commission is doing, and they are doing very well. The questioner's own party has been given the hard way of feeling what happens when things are not under control; then there is an EU recommendation, and that is what we have been struggling with for years to come. It is not now because things are under control, and according to the new estimates which have been made and which take into account the factors to which the questioner refers. That is why I believe that a little serious consideration of this issue would benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133110	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133114	Well, we take it very seriously, but also deeply seriously. I know that the Minister for Finance knows about a company called OW Bunker, and they came off with it badly when they came up with an overvaluation of the prices that they were supposed to be applying in relation to what actually happened. It is not because I want to compare OW Bunker with the government as such, but there is, after all, a certain parallelism in relation to the fact that some estimates have been made which, to put it mildly, are on the good side of the realistic, also in relation to what is now seen in the market. That is just why we are trying to encourage the government to perhaps look at the assumptions that lie ahead. We understand that you are now taking a few billion kroner from the pension funds and bringing forward that payment for having this buffer. But we must assume that that is also because the government knows very well that the conditions laid down in its financial law agreement will not be met. Can it be used as a basis for making this pension package, as the Minister calls it? And, by the way, can the Minister not come up with the answer that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen asked a little more, which is the size we are talking about if the oil price is not the $110 but lands at the level we know today at around $78?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133228	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133230	After all, there will always be a large number of parameters moving up and down in relation to the actual deficit in public budgets. That was also the case when we had another government, and that did not result in it doing anything other than exactly what this government is doing, namely that it regularly estimates and acts on what appears in the trends. Then you take the serious debate on this, I think you will have to take it on a case-by-case basis, even if, with the prospect of having a choice within 10-11 months, you would like to create uncertainty on the part of the Left about things to admit that this part of economic policy is also under control. It is, of course, contrary to the fact that I do not want to compare the previous government with OW Bunker or anything else about not complying with the borders, the fact that we do not have a proper estimate and pay a price for it, because we have not managed things and have not acted in good time, which was the situation in which the previous government was sitting. This is not the case with the current government; we have not received any recommendations from the European Union. We have lived up to the requirements that we are subject to. We have actually got Denmark out of the recommendation that the previous government imposed on us. That's why there's control over this. I therefore find it interesting to hear: what is really the policy of the Left in this area? So, is the pension package that has been put forward something that the Left supports? Is that something the Left thinks you can do without it? What's the Left's alternative? I haven't heard a pep about it in public debate. I think that would be interesting to get on the ground as we discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133354	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133355	Well, I can answer that very clearly. In other words, we would like to be without making it more expensive to be a Dane, because it was not necessary if we had followed the proposal of a Finance Act put forward by the Left. But the point here is that we are asking calmly and I understand that the Minister for Finance is getting a little excited about it, because I would also be, if I were sitting in the chair of the Minister for Finance to the conditions laid into the Finance Act agreement signed with SF and Enhedslisten: How is it that they are at a completely different level from what the market says? I think the price of oil should be over 40%. higher than what the market says it is currently; 40%. oil prices must rise in order to maintain the condition of oil prices, which is one of the most important conditions to be maintained if the financing basis is to be in place. Then we also ask about the growth estimate that you put into it. I fully agree that it is not the government's growth estimate; it is, after all, the growth estimate of an official work. But there will be another review here later this year. The growth estimate is, to say the least, somewhat above what all other experts say, with perhaps one or two exceptions. That is why we are asking: what is to happen if the growth estimate and the oil price are not going to increase, as otherwise provided for in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133501	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133503	Look, the beauties come at regular intervals. They do so under this government, and so did they under the previous government. And it is, as the author rightly says, officials who make them; I think that is fairness to get on the ground. Account has been taken of the fact that things may look worse than they were estimated last time with the pension package. If we speak politically, in terms of attitude, then I think it is genuinely interesting and very, very open and in some way offensive by the questioner, if what the Left is saying today is that the economic policy of the Left is not to implement the pension package that has been put forward and that, on that basis, we feel that we would be able to respect all the limits, all the demands on our economic policy, with the proposal that the Left has put forward. I don't think that's gonna hold up in the city court. All I need to know is, is that what was the signal? So, is the position of the Left that you do not want to support, do not want to implement the pension package? And does it think that the Left's draft budget, as it has been put forward, is a good thing to keep on the safe side of the deficit limits? Well, I just need to get it very clear home; that would seem useful to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133601	It's gonna be sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who has the opportunity to reply, if he does not want to use the time differently, in his rounding remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133609	Well, I'd be happy to do that. It is, of course, a fun question time when the questions are turned the other way. But the Minister for Finance can be quite reassured. Well, he's got his majority. But in the Left we are voting for that change because when the government has chosen to make an economic policy that is not so we support it. But if the government had pursued a different economic policy, it would not have been necessary. And I think the Minister for Finance is quite well aware of that. We must try to see if we can later get a report on how much room there is for the oil price to fall in relation to the budgeted, to ensure that the government's Finance Act stays within the limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133656	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133658	Once again, I just think that my contribution to what I naturally think should be a debate. It is there, it will be interesting, where we exchange with each other, and I thank you very much for the opportunity to just clean up the trade union once more. In other words, the uncertainty that somewhere threatens the government's proposals threatens the proposal of the Left in exactly the same way. In other words, we would in no way be different if we had implemented the draft Finance Act put forward by the Left. To an exact extent, a pension package had been needed, and that is quite right in the case of the Left. That, of course, is also why we are voting in favour when we come down here and have to take a position after there has been an incredible amount of noise in public space on this issue. The Left has exactly the same need as the government on this point, and the Left therefore wants to implement exactly the same sensible initiative as the government on this point. And that's why things are under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133748	The question is closed. But the next question is also for the Minister of Finance, and also for Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133758	The question is: what makes the Minister think that oil prices will rise by over 25%? next year, which is an essential condition to be fulfilled if the government's Finance Act agreement is to be financially linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133809	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133811	Thank you. This offers an excellent opportunity to reiterate that the Government's Finance Act for 2015, including the Finance Act, remains within the fiscal framework resulting from the Budget Act. It is quite true that, as a starting point, the lower oil price and the lower growth of the economy are weakening the actual government deficit in isolation, as is also the case for 2015; I do not think we can disagree on that. But as I have already mentioned in relation to Question No. S 332, the government has already taken into account this risk that public revenue may have weakened since the August assessment, to which the questioner refers. That was the background to the pension package that we have just debated, and I would like to stress that for the government it is absolutely essential that fiscal policy contributes as far as possible to supporting growth and employment within the responsible framework now laid down in the budget law. This was why, in August, the government organised a fiscal policy for 2015, which went fully to deficit limits, and it is also against this background that the government, with the pension package in October, has improved the government deficit without simultaneously reducing demand and hence the growth of the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133921	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126133924	Thank you for rereading the message from the Minister for Finance. But that was not really an answer as to why the Minister of Finance assumes that the oil price will rise, yes, it is perhaps more than 40%. 20% or more but not more than 25% Next year, for the government's prognosis to be linked. After all, the Minister for Finance has been visited by the former Minister for Climate and Energy, and it may of course be that the former Minister for Climate and Energy can inform the Minister for Finance why it is realistic to believe that the oil price must rise by around 40% in order for the government's assumptions to be realised. For that is what is at the heart, in other words, of the financial law, which is just a long way from reality. Then I know that the Minister for Finance will say: yes, yes, but there will be a new financial statement here sometime in December. The question is, in all modesty, a little at the forefront. Because if the government waits until the financial statement is available, it will start to go very fast in relation to the adoption of the Finance Act, and perhaps it will be a bit hasty if the government cannot then bring the ends together. Or is it something the government will not deal with until next year? After all, this will not be the first time that the government has pushed the funding before it, in relation to what is to be achieved next year, because in connection with the financial law under way, there are some of the measures that need to be looked at only after the summer holidays, and that is quite convenient. And there's just my concern that it's the Minister of Finance who, since he presented his proposal, had to make an intervention to secure 15 billion. kr., and then it is said that there will probably be a new analysis. After all, we do not get an answer as to what makes the Minister of Finance expect the oil price to rise by over 40%. from the level of today, in order that the conditions laid down by the government in the Finance Act next year are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134126	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134127	After all, the government has already taken these matters into account and has acted on the matter in a way that we then found out that the Left apparently strongly supports. But the Left also has to do so if it is to be linked at all when it comes to its own economic policy. So we've been way ahead of the Left. So I would say that, when you estimate at fixed intervals, there are always a whole range of things that move up and down and affect the public balance, not only the oil price, not only growth, but also interest rate developments and a large number of other parameters. Now the questioner is asking us to show a certain behaviour in this respect, but can the questioner remember any examples of the bourgeois government going out and correcting estimates in the middle of the regular intervals and adjusting financial policy in this respect in the wake of fluctuations in oil prices? Just one small example... just one?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134212	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134213	I find it interesting that the Minister for Finance has so consistently failed to respond to the concern that the conditions laid down have gone significantly. Economists from various financial institutions and universities say that this is a major challenge and that it is a significant challenge for the Finance Minister's Finance Act. There are estimates that if the growth estimate is going to be what the government is going to downgrade it to here relatively soon, and if the oil price remains as it stands now, then it is 15-17 billion. kr. missing. It takes the Minister of Finance so just relaxed well well well, it probably goes fairly straight up. I think that is just an attitude that should be seen on top of that, when the Minister for Finance presented a Finance Act last year, it was unwise to go to the edge. But the Minister of Finance thought it was wise to do so this year. That is why I just think that we have a very carefree Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134312	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134313	I have so many weaknesses, but frankly carefree, I don't think you can say I am. And if you look at these estimates again, it's the European Commission's bid that's the most important thing. That says 2.3 per cent, that is to say significantly below the 3%. The risks present have been dealt with with the pension package, which the Left supports. That's a good new signal today. Again to get the debate and to get some kind of professional opinion into something that is not just supposed to be political mud throwing, just give me just one example of a left-wing government having gone out in the face of fluctuating oil prices and failing growth saying that we are now coming up with a new economic estimate, and now we are tightening up fiscal policy on that basis. I'm just asking for an example. What was the situation when we received an EU recommendation and when we crossed the borders on the 3%? with a Left Finance Minister in charge? Were you out to make that kind of corrections? Not that I know of. One might well have discussed it in more detail in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134407	Now it's sir. Jacob Jensen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134411	Yeah, but the point is, it didn't happen. It didn't happen. We didn't run across the border. And that's why I'm just gonna ask you in the wake of that, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has repeatedly asked: what is it that makes the Minister think that the conditions which then lie at the root now, which must be materialised, so that we do not get into those problems, will be met? I mean, we're referring, among other things. I should like to ask whether the Minister of Finance agrees with that assessment, because then perhaps we can get a little closer. I think it is the South Bank that has come up with an estimate that if the growth estimate for the economy and the oil price is not at that level, but remains at the level it is today, in other words for oil prices, then 16 to 17 billion are missing. kr. The minister says so fresh and cowardly that now the 15 billion have been picked up. kr. Picking into the pension funds, but the calculation does not go up when you have already gone straight to the edge of the Minister's own words. And now there are analyses that say that we are missing 16-17 billion. kr., if these unrealistic assumptions don't hold up. The minister says he's found the 15 billion. kr. by taking on pension funds. So, what's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134519	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134520	I think that we simply have to have quite elementary order in the facts. The questioner says that it didn't go wrong at the time, that you didn't run across borders. Well, it's vertically factually wrong. There is a 3% deficit limit. of GDP within EU rules. Moving across that border, you get a recommendation to correct your economic policy by tightening fiscal policy. When you had a Finance Minister from the Left Party and a Prime Minister from the Left Party, you ran over the 3%. This triggered a recommendation which has meant that the rest of us have been working, if I may say so, to tighten fiscal policy by 31⁄2%. structural. You didn't intervene, you didn't make any new estimates, you didn't slow down, you just ran over. What is happening to this government is that things are under control, so that this is not going to happen. That is why we have acted in time. However, we are going to the borders responsible for ensuring growth and employment, and we are doing so in a way that corresponds to the recommendation made by the European Central Bank chief, and in a way that is estimated by the European Commission, which remains within the rules that have been given, even with the oil price assumptions to which the questioner refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134639	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134640	Now the Minister of Finance himself is setting out to botanise historically, and that is a very good thing, because it also gives me the opportunity to ask precisely: now the Minister for Finance stands up and says that the VK government did not slow down, that it did not step in, that it did not do what was necessary, according to the Minister for Finance, but can the Minister for Finance give an example of just one, that, at the time this was a challenge, the Minister for Finance or the Finance Minister's party came up with a proposal that they wanted to tighten up public finances with just an example?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134710	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134712	I'm just quietly noticing that there are apparently double standards here. Obviously, it is the government that is responsible for the estimates, even if they are carried out by officials. It is the government which is responsible for drawing Parliament's attention to any possibilities or need to act in economic policy, to the risks of crossing the borders with which we are bound. We are fully committed to this task. You didn't do that at the time. That's what it is. I have not invited any debate on this today, but it is also a long time ago. But then there is just a paradox, even of the great ones, when two authors from the Left drag me into the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is always a pleasure to have a debate about whether we stay within the limits, when you stand on your own, if you have to say, political inheritance, where it is clearly documented that you could not do so yourself. Well, there's gonna be too much inconsistency.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134804	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134808	It has to be said that what is all the hops in the question, namely how much rubber band and security, which the Minister of Finance thinks there is plenty of, is left of, if the oil price develops differently, we cannot get an assessment of, nor can we be told why the Minister of Finance has an estimate of the oil price, which is significantly above what is at present. But, of course, it may be unpleasant for the Minister of Finance if he had to deal with what was estimated. I also have to say that what the economic wise men are trying to do is at the level of the government. So the question is, if not the figures then start to go there if the wise men should take account of the oil price that is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134856	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134857	Well, I don't have much to add to that comment. I feel incredibly comfortable in this debate and I am happy to take it again on other occasions as well. I have the pleasure of sitting in a government that has made it a perfectly clear premise for pursuing economic policy, that things have to be straightened out and that is there. We remain within the limits set by both the international commitments we have and the budget law we have adopted ourselves. This is in stark contrast to what was the case before the change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134928	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134935	The question is: On what basis does the Minister base the conditions for the financial law agreement for 2015 on, among other things: is based on an oil price significantly above the current level and a growth estimate for the Danish economy, which is also significantly above what most recognised economists consider realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134953	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126134954	As I have already explained in the two previous questions, the government's financial policy remains within the responsible framework of the budget law, and it is also the case that, in the long term, fiscal policy is sustainable only so that we have just clarified that part of the issue. Then I am aware that the oil price may rise next year. I don't guess that at all, and I think that if I had a certain knowledge of it, I would probably be far richer than I really am. It is the case that the government bases its projections on the latest internationally recognised forecasts, and they can, as everyone knows, change on an ongoing basis. Then I would also like to correct a misunderstanding. It is not the case that, for that matter, the current government or the previous government has tightened fiscal policy just because oil prices have fallen. There are no known examples of this after my memory. In the same way, we are not relaxing fiscal policy as a result of increasing income from pension taxation, as they have done in recent years in the wake of falling interest rates and rising bond rates. I believe that we are well served by maintaining stability in relation to this type of fluctuation. After all, fiscal policy in Denmark is based on the structural deficits, which are corrected for cyclical fluctuations and excessive fluctuations in revenue in the state budget. As a starting point, we are organizing fiscal policy according to the budget law, according to the structural deficit and according to the expenditure ceilings, but also, of course, taking due account of the deficit limit on the actual balance of 3%. of GDP resulting from the EU's growth and stability pact, and on this point, as I said, the government has already acted, in response to the other questions, with the pension package that has been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135137	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135140	Thank you. I am not really accusing the Minister of making these estimates. I hope that is not in the question either. I think I tried to indicate that earlier. Because if it were the case that the Minister knew how these things would develop, then I would like to have a two-man talk with him, because then we might be able to strike half-harm on the possible upside that might be there. But now we're not in an oil speculation business either. It is, of course, a concern that these things are going to be connected, and it is actually quite honest that I know the Minister himself is concerned about that. Of course, we recognise the budgetary law and the different framework that governs the economy, but regardless of how you put it up, what matters is how these basic conditions for the economy develop. And we are also pointing to the price of oil, which is currently enormously volatile, and we have to face it and point out that the estimates for the economy, which are the prerequisites of the economic policy being pursued, are at a different level from that which is rightly to be expected. I look forward, of course, to obtaining a revised estimate for the economy in due course. In this context, I would like to ask whether this is something you want to act on. In other words, if it is the case that the estimate is substantially downgraded, will it re-evaluate its economic policy in relation to the possible downward adjustment? Or is it said that now with a buffer you have done it, you have to take something from the pensions by bringing forward the pension tax and that is it? Or how am I supposed to understand the answer that was given just now?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135318	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135319	I must, of course, break down and confess that, in the right circumstances, the questioner is one of the more fair debaters we have here in the Danish Parliament. Actually, I think so. And it is true that these estimates, which we often discuss politically so intensely, as if we were somehow involved in it, are made by experts, by officials, on the basis of objective factors which are difficult to foresee. If you could foresee them, then we would be able to win what we both agree on... be much richer than we are, because then we would be able to win on speculation in the market. We can't. What we are doing is that we are first and foremost steering the structural balances, and we must try to stay below the 3%. We are also doing so with the pension package that we have presented, but when we get a lot more money in the box as a result of the low interest rates giving huge PAL tax revenue, we reject the fact that that money can suddenly be fired off. We are therefore trying to keep these fluctuations out of the control of economic policy by controlling structural balances. It is a healthy feature of the system of governance that we have basically built together, that is, between the government and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135425	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135427	I could see for myself a company called Corydon and Jensen oil something, but we will have to do that at a later date. It may become relevant after a choice. I certainly hope that the Minister for Finance will do something different from what he is doing now. I don't know if I'm gonna do the same thing, you can always guess. But whatever it is, of course I recognise how these things are connected, because that is also the way we dealt with it, so of course it has to be in relation to the structural balances, that is what you are running for. But I am simply saying and sticking to the question that it is not the case that we can simply ignore the insights or lack of understanding that lie if these things, that is, the conditions for the price of oil and the conditions for growth for our economy, are not met. That is just why I am asking: if and when we see a change in estimates for the economy, will you act politically on it, or are you saying that we have now made it with a pension package, and then it is just as it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135521	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135523	For my sake, it may be called Jensen and Corydon. If that ability to guess prices is present, I'm in, even if I'm first mentioned as the last one. We are steering according to the structural balances, and we are also keeping our hands off the money if there is more money in the box than expected, what I have done a few times as Minister of Finance, because the PAL tax revenues are so huge when the interest rates are low and the bond rates are high. The important thing is that we are on the right side of the 3%, and that is where I feel we are well upholstered, also in relation to the fluctuations that are being pointed out today with the pension package that we happily agree to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135601	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135602	The Minister for Finance is very much concerned that with the pension package that has been agreed, the problems of a budget deficit that is too large are dealt with. But when you look at the Finance Act put forward by the government, you have to assume that the Finance Act should take into account the implementation of the initiatives announced by the government to the Danish Parliament in October in the government's own legislative catalogue. And one of the proposals contained in the legislative catalogue is the implementation of the energy agreement, which is intended to introduce a new electricity wholesale model. But that proposal has now been announced by the government to be postponed, because it will require a liquidity of about one billion money in the year it is being introduced, and the government has announced that it is not possible because of the Finance Act, because it does not want to go into carambola with the EU's 3% objective. I just want to hear: where is it in the government's Finance Act or pension package initiative that there has been a slippage that means that the government's own legislative programme cannot now be implemented in the financial year 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135710	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135711	I must confess that I am not fully up to date on the technical examination of a proposal on the electricity wholesale model. It is simply not part of my preparation for today, but we can, of course, come back to that for me very much. If we continue with what we are actually discussing, namely how to organise fiscal policy, then the philosophy is that we stay within the limits to which we are bound in Denmark, unlike the previous government, but also that we go close to them for the sake of growth and employment. And I think that is perhaps one aspect that has been lacking in today's debate, namely that unless we want to withdraw growth and jobs, i.e. private jobs, from the economy, we should be exactly where we are. And I do not really hear the Left in, what are we to say, other such factual fora than what one might get up with as short questions and answers as this one, have a different view. After all, I do not hear the Left making proposals to pull demand, jobs and growth out of the economy by having a tighter fiscal policy than we are proposing. That is not the profile I have been given the impression that the Left really wants it, and if you want it, then I think it deserves a debate. That would surprise me in a sense, because as I have seen it, the interest in creating jobs and getting growth is as high in the Left as it is in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135828	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135830	Yes, indeed. But we can then give different priorities to our resources, and there we have put forward a financial bill from the Left, which is even good for funding in relation to what the government is putting forward and which, of course, has a completely different focus on private job creation than the agreement made by the government, the Enhedslisten and the SF, which is clinically cleansed of new growth initiatives. The government can boast of various initiatives, but that is something that has been agreed among other things. With the left in the early summer. But the new agreement with Enhedslisten and SF is clinically cleared of growth initiatives. But I really think that the Minister for Finance must say that it is the government of the Minister for Finance who has said: we really would have liked to have taken an initiative, but because it is burdening the state's liquidity with a billion, then we cannot. Surely the Minister for Finance must give a clear answer as to whether it is an indication that the financial policy for which the Minister for Finance is responsible is now suddenly not enough to implement the government's own legislative programme. Well, that's a confession case, 'cause then you're not just walking to the edge, you're over the edge. You can't go through with what you planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135930	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126135931	No, you have gone exactly to the edge right where you have to be, right where the head of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, has recommended that countries lay down in order to create growth and employment. And by the way, the Left is no different. In other words, just because you have emptied all the buffers and reserves that are in the proposal and then posted them as something else in what you have put forward, you are no safer than the government. And if we look at this with how much demand we send into the economy by fiscal policy, how many jobs we create in this context, how much private growth we support in this respect, yes, then the Left is probably with a similar profile, perhaps with a slightly different mix of spending, which gives a little less growth and a little less jobs, if you count on it, but basically not in any way significantly or significantly safer than the deficit threshold.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140019	Sir. Jacob Jensen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140021	When the Minister for Finance starts to talk about the fiscal profile and that this is something that must help create growth and employment, then I just have to say that I am not making this up. In fact, it was something that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior replied and acknowledged last week when I had him in the same situation as the Minister for Finance is now in, namely that the Finance Act actually pulls labour out of the labour market in the vicinity of 1,000 full-time jobs. So it's just to get it straight. Isolatedly, the Finance Act is moving in the wrong direction. But I just want to ask you something in the end. When South Bank arrives here on 3 November in Politiken with a calculation that says that if oil prices and growth estimates do not hold up, as the government estimates and works on, then 16 to 17 billion are missing. kr., is that a calculation that the Minister of Finance can nod to recognize?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140107	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140108	I think it has actually been an excellent round and we have one more question for the benefit of us, so it can be even better than it is. But there are, as we all know, skilled people in the Chamber today, both a supply side and a demand side in such a large economy, i.e. a national economy like the Danish one. After all, it is the interaction between the two that determines the level of growth and the level of employment as such. There we are at the moment in a situation where we are on the way out of a long and deep crisis. It has been our assessment that it is important to push the demand in the economy as much as possible with fiscal policy within a responsible framework. And if you don't, you want to do it to a lesser extent than the government, then it costs jobs. Then it costs growth, including private jobs. And there I have not really heard the Left wish for fewer jobs and less growth than the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140156	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140204	The question is: when the government goes to the brink of fiscal policy in its own words, what are the government's priorities for saving money in the public budget if it turns out that the conditions for the financial law agreement for 2015 do not stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140217	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140218	Well, I think we're fine on the safe side of the limits we've committed ourselves to. What I have said is also what the European Commission's assessment is about. But it is true that we are putting ourselves on a profile where we invest as much as possible to create as many jobs as possible, and we have acted on the signs of a more negative development than expected in the countries around Denmark, with the pension package which the Left apparently also supports, which of course I am delighted about. That is why I think we should stick to the fact that, under this government, economic policy in Denmark is under control, which keeps to the limits to which we have committed ourselves, and at the same time we have ensured that we have actually had an increase in employment and a fall in unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140301	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140302	Thank you. May I understand that the Minister of Finance has nothing on the drawing board? In other words, if these conditions are not met, then we do not have a priority list ready, and there are no things we have said we have to wait until later? These could be things in areas which we would have liked to have implemented and which are included in the government programme or elsewhere, and they are being put right now, because that is not possible anyway, because we have gone well and well as far as we could, and because there are some uncertainties in these assumptions which make it necessary to have a safety buffer in order not to get on the wrong side. So this is simply the list, the priority list to which I refer and which I assume is to be found in the Ministry of Finance or elsewhere in the government offices. Isn't there any priorities for what it is that you think you have to postpone things that you have to stop implementing anyway, if that is the case that the conditions on which your financial law agreement is based do not stand? That is what we have been talking about here over a few questions gradually. It is relatively high, both in terms of oil prices and in terms of growth estimates for the economy. Then I understand you've made this buffer for the 15 billion. kr., as the Minister for Finance has also explained, but even the buffer if I consider that Sydbank can count in such a reasonable way, and I think that, as far as they can, they will be more than eaten up, if I may say so. That is why I am asking what kind of priority list is to be expected if these prerequisites do not stand up anyway, so the government will have to tighten up the measures that would otherwise have been taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140434	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140435	Yes, but what goes wrong all the time in this type of debate is that we take the discussion on the basis of one parameter, which then lies an isolated assessment of one bank or expert, without taking into account the overall picture of parameters, that is, the whole of it. And what is happening is that every time there comes a South Bank economist who estimates that the PAL tax revenue will be twice as high as expected, because the interest rate has remained lower for longer than was expected, and the bond rates ergo is higher, so of course a debate about what we are going to spend that money on. And there is the Minister for Finance's answer, after all, that we should not use them, we should put them in the treasury and use them to pay off the debt, and that this type of random or temporary fluctuations very often go against each other. To the extent that they do not go against each other and overall there is a downward trend, we have, as I have said, quite early and responsibly taken into account that apparently with the support of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140527	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140530	Am I supposed to understand that you're not going to change anything? In other words, we are not going to go out and say that we are going to have to hold back now, we are not going to have to postpone areas that we were just going to do anyway, it is perhaps in our government programme, and it is perhaps even in the legislative catalogue; we are running that way, completely unassuming that these things might have to go. After all, we are waiting here shortly to see a possible adjusted economic growth estimate. At least I expect that, and what I think the Minister of Finance is doing and we also expect to see that the oil price does not hit this $110 anyway, i.e. a 40-percent increase. Is that the prerequisite for driving unbridled, that is to say, that is what I like to hear the Minister of Finance say now: you do not have a plan B, you do not have a priority list for where you are going to tighten up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140611	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140614	What you have is that you have it under control, and what you get is not only an estimate of growth; it is also estimates of public deficits, both structurally and actually. In addition to having it under control and having documented in practice that we can stay within the limits to which we are bound, unlike the previous government, we also have an idea of the economic policy of growth and employment. In fact, I think that if we put aside the controversy in this way, the Left and the Government should be able to agree that it is wise and good to stimulate growth and employment as much as possible within the borders until things can stand on their own feet. That is the recommendation of the European Central Bank. It is also the recommendation of a large number of our industries in Denmark, and I think that the Left would do well to join the government on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140659	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140701	After all, there is still a problem of getting a little more firm reports from the Finance Minister, but let me try to ask in another way: if all the conditions of the Finance Minister are not met and if it appears either in the Economic Statement coming next month or during the financial year, then the Finance Minister will take initiatives to ensure that the deficit does not rise above 3%.? After all, we must expect the Minister of Finance to do so, because the Minister of Finance is, after all, I suppose that this is not just something that the Minister of Energy himself has found on a member of an Economic Affairs Committee and a coordinating committee in a government that has postponed the government's own policy, because, as is said to the Danish Parliament, which unfortunately is not able to afford it in relation to compliance with EU standards. It is a proposal which, in all likelihood, would be quite grotesque if it were not the case that was included in the government's financial law proposal presented in August. That cannot now be implemented, and it is just that we are some people who say: okay, is the Minister for Finance ready to take further initiatives if it turns out that the conditions are not met?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140817	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140818	I think it's going all the way around. What the whole debate is documenting, including on the part of the authors, is that the government is acting on these matters in a completely timely and responsible manner, which means that we are within the limits of the previous government, which was, of course, led by a party of which the questioner himself is a member. If you want such new information about the overall impact of the estimates moving up and down, and the measures taken, then it is relevant and you have not responded to that at all, and we have spent, I think, well time on each other and been around the corners, but you have not responded once to the fact that those who judge it here, i.e. the European Commission, which we do not manipulate on the part of the government, because it is quite independent, have come up with a new estimate for the deficit in Denmark, and have taken these factors into account, including the oil price. And that is 2.3 per cent, where the limit is 3.0 per cent, as the questioner is well aware. And so it comes out with the assessment that Denmark is quite safe here in contrast to the time when one had a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140920	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126140921	Then I would very much look forward to the Minister of Finance explaining how the disagreement between the government and the European Union is in relation to the assessment of the government's fiscal policy. Because if it is the EU assessment that has to be the basis, then I do not understand why it has been abandoned to implement its own legislative proposal. Well, that doesn't add up. The Minister for Finance says that the EU says that the deficit is only 2.3 per cent, that everything is under control. At the same time, it is announced to the Danish Parliament that it did have an idea to implement part of an energy agreement and that it was the agreement that it was to be implemented in 2015, but you cannot, because then you will break the 3-percent ceiling. Well, if the Minister of Finance can see a clear connection in that, congratulations, because then I think the Minister of Finance is alone. That is why the Minister of Finance must be able to explain to the Parliamentary Assembly and I will bear with you if we are to have it in writing, that is perfectly understandable for: what is the difference between the government's estimates and the EU's estimates, and why is it that the government will not implement its own policy with reference to its own estimates in order to avoid getting involved with EU rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141021	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141021-2	Now, no matter how much the voice is raised, there is no denying that the government is in control of economic policy and that we are within the limits within which we must be. Estimates from this government and the previous government come at regular intervals. Why don't you go see Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, my predecessor, and ask him how this sort of thing works in practice, i.e. who it is in the Ministry of Finance who estimates and when they estimate. I feel absolutely convinced that he probably like the Speaker of the Danish Parliament, if you took that conversation, would inform you that it is taking place at regular intervals and, moreover, independently of experts. The European Commission's estimates are so newer than what we have recently come up with, and therefore of course also interesting and fortunately positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141105	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141108	Now we've been around a lot about buffers, uncertainties, and how the economy looks. I would just like to end by asking the Minister of Finance whether it would not have been better for the Danish economy and thus we would have had a greater buffer and a greater margin of security in relation to these very uncertain assumptions, which we agree to be uncertain, if the Financial Act had focused more on creating private jobs and thus the income base for our welfare societies rather than on bringing forward a pension tax. Would it not have been better than the way it has now been organised, investing in new transfer income instead of investing in new jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141150	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141150-2	I do not think we can escape the fact that, when we look at the way in which this kind of thing is objectively calculated, there is a greater demand effect in what the government has proposed and implemented than in what the Left has proposed. Well, I don't think you get around that. So, in this way, there is a slightly greater pouf of growth and employment, including private growth and employment. This tax relief and tax relief, which we have together made a great deal of, also much more than the bourgeois government itself did in its time, works only in the longer term. I think we should all be aware of that. Then, of course, you need the buffer you need. All you have to do is be aware that the greater the buffer you want, the less you are able to push positively towards growth and employment. And there is the call from those who have the most understanding of it, for example. The European Central Bank, which is quite independent and professional, makes use of the space they have. And basically, I guess the Left thinks the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141242	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141255	Thank you for the floor, President. My question is this: is it reasonable, according to the Foreign Minister, for EU parliamentarians to receive approx. 100,000 kroner. a month and thus earn more than the Prime Minister of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141309	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141311	Thank you for the question. Let me begin by explaining the facts. The foundation of a Member of the European Parliament is almost DKr 60 000. Before taxes. Of this, both EU tax and then additional Danish tax must be paid, so that, overall, we are taxed as we are in Denmark. So it is very far from getting paid $100,000. per month in salary. Then it is true that there are a number of supplements to cover the costs you have at home, the so-called pencil money, as some call them. You can get help with the staff who have to do your job in Brussels, and a large part of that money is paid directly from Parliament to the staff concerned, and finally you also get some cash benefits. But it is neither comparable to the Prime Minister's nor, for that matter, my salary. Is that a reasonable level? The current level was established in the context of the 2009 European Parliament elections when it was introduced, and before that there were different salaries, depending on the country from which it came. At least we ministers in the Council of Ministers did not think that was a fair way of doing that. That is why we managed to create a common set of rules so that all Members of this House will have the same, no matter where they come from. This means, of course, that in some countries you get more than the national parliamentarians do and in other countries you get less, but that means you get the same wherever you are elected. Those were very lengthy negotiations at the time. I think we can really be satisfied with the result. In fact, we had on average reduced the salaries of MEPs, we had cleared up the jungle of special rules, we had to document our travel expenses, and we also had to raise the retirement age from 60 to 63 years. It was essential for Denmark to vote in favour of the new statute in the Council as long ago as 2005, and this was on the basis of an ordinary negotiating document in the European Committee, where there was support from the parties of the Folketing, because it was an improvement on what was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141516	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141518	Well, I admit that my question was probably a little flawed. What I needed to write or say was that it is after tax, that is, that is what is being paid. There's these cash benefits, which amount to over $40,000. a month tax-free, just as there are some pencil money, which amounts to about DKK 34,000. In other words, an EU parliamentarian comes up to DKK 99 000, which the Prime Minister does not receive after tax per month at least. So my question is essentially whether there is reasonableness in it, and we can then find out afterwards whether the government is going to do something about the level of pay that Parliament has and which I think is far too high. I don't think these tax-free allowances should be here either. It's a bad thing they're here. But in the first place I would like to ask whether the level is reasonable, i.e. that an EU parliamentarian who has just entered will receive 99,000, compared with the Prime Minister, who will probably receive some 65,000-75,000 kroner. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141634	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141635	With all due respect, I think that the questioner is slightly mixing apples, bananas and the remuneration you receive yourself, i.e. the salary you receive, is considerably lower for a Member of the European Parliament than we agree with the Prime Minister. It is true, then, that you get an allowance of DKK 30.000, but it should not go to yourself; it goes to the secretary or the help you have in your home country, and I think we are both interested in it, because it is to strengthen the national voice in the European Parliament. It is to ensure that there is a direct line between the reality in Denmark and the policy to be pursued. There you need to be able to communicate Europe to Denmark and Denmark to Europe. Then there's the cash benefits. This shows that most Members of the European Parliament have a housekeeping in their home, where they typically have a family and perhaps children, while at the same time being able to live and live in Brussels, which is why they have a double cost. We know it a little from Danish parliamentarians who live in Jutland, but work in Copenhagen; they also get some special benefits because they have extra costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141743	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141745	Thank you. So, with regard to what we are getting for double housekeeping, I would say that it is not up to 40 000 kroner. tax-free per month; I think we can agree on that. I'd say it's pepper nuts compared to this, and that's fair enough, I'm not complaining. I think we are getting a good salary in advance, so I am very pleased with that, also as it is the Danish people who are paying. I just think that if you make a comparison of these amounts and add them together, an EU parliamentarian will be paid DKK 99 000. a month. What I think is the problem is that there are also some taxpayers at the other end who have to pay for the salaries of these Members of Parliament. I'm just asking, is it really fair that it's up to this level?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141831	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141832	Yes, we certainly agree that the Danish rules are fair; that is also my personal view. And, of course, we can always discuss what the reasonable level of parliamentarians is, but it is important for me to make it clear that this is not a personal salary. It is not the case that you get a blank cheque of 99,000 kroner. a month. They are to be used to run a secretariat at home • the 30,000 DKK. of them and must go to other things, and they must also cover the extra costs you have. And of course, the extra cost of living in Brussels and Denmark is, after all, slightly higher than the cost of living in Jutland and Copenhagen respectively; so it is also greater. Anyway, we worked back then... it shouldn't be a secret to get lower wages. We had them lowered from 50 percent. 38 per cent. of a judge's salary in the European Court of Justice. It was a step forward and it was there that could land a compromise and it joined the then government then saw on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141928	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126141931	I'm really just interested in knowing if the government is going to keep this under observation, that is. continue to work to ensure that the taxpayers' money on which the European Parliamentarians live is not wasted and wasted. So I am quite satisfied if I can get a promise here that the government is still working on these matters being controlled, that is to say, that we are looking for things and are continuing to strive for that there is no slendrian going on with the funds entrusted to the European Union by taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142018	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142020	Well, I would like to give the assurance that the government is in general keen to ensure that the funds spent throughout the EU system, including in this area, go to what they are intended for; that there is no cheating; and that, if I may say so, you come after those who are trying to cheat. Fortunately, some rules have also been incorporated. For example: If you do not attend the meetings of the European Parliament in Brussels more than half of the times, then the hammer will fall, and you will not get the same amounts, because then you will not have been active enough to get them paid. And that was also something that came in back in 2005 when we negotiated it. But there is reason to be careful; it is there every time we deal with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142057	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Mr Gundelach. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142106	What is the Foreign Minister's view that the EU parliaments receive approx. 30,000 kroner. What action does the Minister intend to take to change this kind of pamphlet practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142119	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142120	Yeah, it's good Danish. What we are talking about here is the pencil money that we also talked about earlier, that is to say, what you get in order to run an office in Denmark that can back up your activities, make sure that Danish voices are heard: that the voices of Danish citizens, companies and organisations can also be heard and taken down to the European Union. It is true that you will then get these DKK 30.000, which is a cover for the general expenditure that is, by doing your job as a Member of the European Parliament. They are intended to cover the costs of renting offices, telephones, mail, purchases, operation, maintenance of computers, travel within Denmark, if you are going around and talking etc. The money will be halved if you are not active and show up there is a set of rules. It is true that it is not the case that you have to account for the crown for the crown, that is, for each crown you have used, if I may say so. You should not hand in a receipt for every pencil you have bought, and it is true that it would be a clearer practice and also a greater guarantee against fraud if you had to. It did not become part of the set of rules at the time, and it is not something that is being changed in the European Union, but fortunately a number of MEPs are doing so anyway, so they hand in their receipts. And, of course, I support that and I think that is good for the general confidence in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142242	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142244	In other words, I understand that there are quite a few Members of the European Parliament who let an accountant look at things and thereby check that it is in good order. But what I think there is the big problem is that the Members of Parliament, among other things, are in fact. the European Parliament has printer cartridges, paper and various other items, and that you have an account amounting to DKr 380,000. a year which is not to be accounted for. I find that extremely problematic. So, I think that one of the things that is the Danes' most serious stumbling block in relation to the EU system is sloppy with funds, and then it's also these pamphlet-like conditions that you have, where you get these 30,000 DKK that enter the bank book, which you don't have to explain. I find that incomprehensible when it comes to such a large amount of money. I also find it problematic that, as parliamentary politicians, we do not actually get 5,000 kroner in the same amount. tax-free per month. We shouldn't have that. But I certainly do not think that the European Parliamentarians should have money for which no account is made when they are up to this level.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142405	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142406	As I said, I would like to see a full account given, but I may wonder how big the problem is. If we look at how the money is spent here in the Folketing by the various Members of the European Parliament who have been elected both from the author's party and my own party, then I am quite sure that it will be used at home for example. to pay help to secure a strong Danish voice in the European Parliament. Even if you get printer cartridges down in Brussels, it may also be a little inappropriate if you are going to fly them back to Denmark. It is, of course, the cost in Denmark that must be covered in particular, and it can be said that it is important for an active life in the European Parliament that Danish interests and views can be taken home. And it also requires some presence here that one's party can give priority to the fact that one's party holds meetings where one can come and meet all sorts from trade unions to popular organisations that can come and tell what they think should be politics. So it is probably also part of having an active democratic life in the European Parliament that you have the opportunity to do activities at home in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142519	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142521	Yes, yes, I fully agree with that, but where I think it is going, it is just that when the European taxpayer's money is made available, there should be control over what that money is being spent on, so that it does not go to everything that has nothing to do with things. And I think you just have to demand that. In other words, it is perfectly reasonable to have to account for the funds of others. I would say that is a sound and good principle which fully respects the general principles of the people's regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142559	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142600	I am pleased that we agree that it makes sense to spend money to create a lively debate about the European Union at home and to secure Danish interests in the European Union. And, as I said, I have to be realistic and say that I do not think there will be any renegotiation of the whole way in which we pay our parliamentarians in the European Union, just like the first. In principle, however, I agree that we must be accountable. Without having to go into details here about what our wish model would be, we must of course also be careful that it does not come down on the individual eraser, so you spend more time managing the scheme than, if I may say so, actually ensuring that it is used sensibly. However, that the starting point must be that everyone should be accountable for the use of taxpayers' money, I agree entirely, and that would also be my approach if I were given the opportunity to discuss it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142647	Sir. Christian Langballe, final.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142649	I will reassure the Foreign Minister and then say that I am not an enthusiastic and warm supporter of the EU system at all, but I think that when there is so much money at stake, the least that can be demanded is that the funds that are being used be controlled; because it is large, large sums of money that are being spent. Each parliamentarian of the European Union must, of course, stand by it. This means that the funds used should be accounted for. Whether it be for the individual eraser, I am not going to say, but a package of 100 erasers might well be accounted for. I just think it's common sense to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142733	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142734	Well, it annoys me a little because I just thought we were going to have a European political breakthrough in the Parliament with a Danish People's Party that would really enter the EU battle now. We'll wait for that next time, but fair enough. Well, I do not think we disagree on the principles of this, but neither do we, as I hear it, about the importance of having a lively, popular debate on what policy should be pursued in the European Union, whether it is good or bad, and that it is more a question of ensuring clarity and transparency. We can at least work to do that here in the Folketing and will do it to the Danish parliamentarians who work in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142816	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142827	Thank you. Will the Foreign Minister address two Danish companies that, according to an international NGO, they are violating international law in Western Sahara and explaining Danish policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142841	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126142842	I'm sorry, I just had to find the right question. Without taking a position on the specific issues raised here, I would like briefly to outline what the general policy of the government is in areas such as this. We advise the government, on the basis of a precautionary principle, against all public institutions engaging in financial activities and the purchase of goods from areas which have an unsolved status under international law, such as: Unless it can be demonstrated that the activities benefit the local population, Western Sahara has. These principles are set out in the opinion of the UN Legal Service in 2002. No sanctions have been adopted against trade in the area. However, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides advice to Danish companies, they are made aware of the government's line and principles in the UN Legal Service's opinion. Let me stress that private companies are, of course, responsible for their own actions. This means that, on the basis of the specific circumstances and the company's knowledge of all relevant facts, each company must assess whether the conclusion of a contract for Western Sahara is in line with the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143002	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143004	Thank you. Now I understand that there is a difference between private and public companies. There are, of course, in many contexts, but I do not think that should be in this context. Has the Minister forgotten that the Committee on Foreign Affairs actually made a report in the spring of 2014 as a kind of guide to the Minister, where we say: "Furthermore, the majority in the Committee • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Does the Minister really believe that he meets the committee's recommendations, that is to say the committee's report? I can say that all parties except the Danish People's Party are behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143102	In fact, I believe that there is good agreement between the parliamentary report on B-40 and the government's policy. After all, we call on all companies, both public and private, to remain within the principles of the UN. The difference between public and private companies in this context is, of course, that public undertakings are under, if I may say so, direct public control, while I cannot decide that a private company should do one thing or the other. However, I can call on it to respect the principles of the UN, the UN line, and we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143137	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143138	If you now read what we write in the report, can you not see that it would be more in line with the opinion of the Danish Parliament to say that the Minister, the Embassy and for that matter the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should point out and indict Danish companies that if they do these activities down there, it is not in line with the Danish Government's policy? Because that's what the majority writes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143204	As I have said, we point this out and call on both private companies and public institutions to respect the UN's line. And that is exactly what is at the heart and the message of the report to B 40. But it is something other than trying to make the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry overjudge whether the individual company in its concrete behaviour and activities actually does so. It is a long way down the road depending on specific circumstances, and it is an estimate made by the private company itself, at least when we are outside Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143240	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143240-2	I think I have to ask once more and a little more clearly. Instead of hiding behind the UN's line, was it not better that the government said what it meant and said to the Danish companies that did not follow the UN's line: our position is that you should follow it; our position is that you should keep your hands off working in Western Sahara when you do it the way you do it? Then it would be clear to the Danish companies where the Danish government stands, instead of just reading and hiding behind the UN's general guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143310	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143311	Now I am a very great supporter of the United Nations. And in a case such as this, where there is a very great deal of legal clarity under international law, there is a de facto administration under Morocco, but that is not a part of Morocco, so there is a great deal of legal clarity in international law. I really think it makes very good sense that, in a situation where the United Nations is trying to find a solution for Western Sahara and where we also support the UN's efforts to find a solution for Western Sahara, we are following the UN's guidelines and do not run in 192 different directions, as our national parliaments believe. I also think that it has been part of Parliament's speech in connection with the otherwise good discussion we had in connection with B 40 that it is hoped that the UN will play a prominent role here. That is why it is not hiding behind the United Nations. In other words, it is a dedicated desire to strengthen the mandate of the United Nations, to strengthen the voice of the United Nations, which, I believe, I share in general with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143409	So we are done with Question No. 9. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10. It's still gone, sir. Christian Juhl, who asks, and it is still the Foreign Minister who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143414	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143418	I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister, following a written reply to Question No. 29 to the Committee on Foreign Affairs from this session will clarify whether the Danish Embassy in Israel is also helping Danish companies, so that they can get in touch with companies that reside in the settlements. Or is it only in the Western Sahara occupied by Morocco that this is not a problem for the Ambassador and the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143452	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143453	Let me start with a very general remark, and that is that we in the government are opposed to the settlements that Israel is making. We have expressed this in both words and deeds, and we are also pleased that the European Union has a strong voice on this issue. This is clearly contrary to international law and should therefore also be subject to strong criticism. The government and the policy of the European Union are that we do not boycott Israeli companies and that we are in general happy to communicate contacts with Israeli companies. However, the Danish Embassy does not provide advice for settlement activities, does not provide advice in relation to promoting investments in settlements or activities in settlements, whether Danish or Israeli companies are making them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143545	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143546	I'm glad. I'm just gonna ask you a question, just in case. The case that has been asked in the written question specifically concerned what the embassy was doing in Morocco, and there was the answer that they had advised and helped with contacts with companies in Western Sahara. That is why I ask more directly: does the Danish Embassy in Israel help to communicate contacts with the settlements in the West Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143622	So, together with a number of EU countries, in July 2014, we have published a guide to EU citizens and businesses, which draws attention to the risks associated with economic and financial activities in the settlements, as well as the reputation loss that companies risk on such occasions. The guide is published on our website, and it is also at the embassy of Tel Aviv's website. And we do not provide direct activities or investments in settlement activities. I cannot rule out contact between Danish companies and Israeli companies which have some form of activity in the West Bank. Unfortunately, a great many Israeli companies do. However, neither activities nor investments that are targeted settlements are included, and we also make it clear that we have guidelines for what is in EU policy and our policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143718	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143719	In other words, I must understand that the Danish Embassy does not communicate contacts with West Bank companies, in other words Israeli companies in the settlements in the West Bank. Then I just want to ask why in the world you do it in Western Sahara. In other words, the Minister himself answers directly that yes, there we are helping to communicate contact. However, the status of Western Sahara is equally controversial in relation to international law and to the activity there is with companies, trade and fisheries, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143752	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143753	Let me try to make it quite clear, and it is a little complicated, so I understand that it can also be difficult to get the right idea. What is the embassy in Tel Aviv's policy is that of course attempts are being made to communicate cooperation between Danish companies and Israeli companies in general, and there may also be Israeli companies which have activities in another context in the West Bank. What the Danish Embassy does not do is to engage in activities, investments or specific activities in the West Bank. We do not promote any economic activity in the occupied territories of the West Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143835	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143836	But then I am trying to ask this question about Western Sahara again: why on earth is the embassy in Morocco going in here? If you are so sharp in relation to the West Bank, why is that not in relation to the Western Sahara? The Minister himself says in his reply that he has guided and helped to communicate contacts for Danish companies inside the Western Sahara area, because working in the Western Sahara area is so problematic. I think that is a problem and I would also like to call here for this not to be done and for it to be clarified to the embassy that this should not be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143911	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143912	That is why we have a UN process in progress to clarify it, and that is why there is a great deal of work on the part of the United Nations in relation to it. But that is also why, if I may say so, there is not a quite parallel situation in relation to the situation we have in the West Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126143949	I'm grateful to both of you, sir. Christian Juhl and the Foreign Minister, who are finished. So we have come to Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, and this has been addressed by Mrs Krarup to the Minister for Education and Research. I don't quite see the Minister for Education and Research, and that's bad. Yes, of course, the government decides for itself, but that means that if I can't introduce this question so slowly that she gets here, we'll have to postpone the meeting. In any case, we have to postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144354	I would say that, according to my timetable, five minutes have now elapsed so that we can resume the sitting and, of course, I must tell the Minister that we must ensure that someone is at least so well informed that we can be given clear instructions that we should be there so that we do not have to interrupt meetings. I'm afraid that happens sometimes, and that's not good. But that should not change the fact that we have to move forward in today's text, and that is Question No. 11 to the Minister for Education and Research, and the question has been asked by Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144423	Thank you. Will the Minister take initiatives to ensure that all branches of the research on class management come to the knowledge of the teachers' students and there are no specific branches that are tabooed on the course, as the article • When did authority cease to be a phyord? ▪ from Information on 7 November 2014 unfortunately this is the case today so that future primary school teachers will be better equipped to keep order in a class and thus ensure that children get a greater professional benefit than is the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144458	Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144500	Thank you for the question, and I am very sorry that I was a little late. Class management is a key mandatory element in teacher training, and it may be a little in contrast to what I heard earlier from Mrs Marie Krarup when we had this séance here in the Parliamentary Chamber. But it is a mandatory element. Nor have I seen any evidence that certain branches of class management should have been tabooed in teacher training. UCSJ, mentioned in the above article in Information, informs them that the teacher's training is based on national and international research knowledge and is based on different theory formations. The student will thus meet theories and methods that reflect precisely opposite approaches. The versatile use of research knowledge in teacher training is also confirmed by Danish professional colleges to the Ministry of Education and Research. This also means that if a well-known researcher or other debater is just making sharp messages, sometimes unmanageable, then teachers in teacher training actually consider it the responsibility of training to examine the allegations or allegations critically and ask: is there any scientific evidence to support the claim? The Ministry of Education has just completed a major mapping work. The rapporteur is probably aware of this with regard to class management, which among other things. points out that structure and clarity are essential for teaching in a class. I will, of course, ensure that this knowledge is channelled to professional colleges. We have a firm partnership with the Ministry of Education, with the professional colleges and with the Danish Evaluation Institute. Of course, in order to ensure calm in a class, it is important to have talented teachers, but I do not think there is a spell for it. So I would just like to remind you that order in the classes is also something that requires parental support, and that also means well-rested children who have had breakfast and all that sort of thing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144724	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144725	Thank you for your answer. It is true that the subject of class management is part of all teachers' teacher training, but it is included with very little weight unless you take it as an elective subject. But that is not what the question is about here. I was very concerned when I read the article on authority and the climate of the country's teacher education, but first of all I get worried when I have talked to people who go on teacher training, because of course it should not be the case that it is only certain attitudes about how to create order in the class that are taught in the country's educational institutions. But that is what the article says, as many students say. It should be an ideal that all essential branches of research are presented to the teacher students, but at the moment it is actually the case that certain theories are more popular than others. Niels Egelund's theory that it is sometimes appropriate to apply negative sanctions to pupils is very unpopular on educational institutions, although many say that in practice this approach is actually necessary in order to be able to carry out sound teaching. On the other hand, the didactic direction of a researcher such as Helle Plauborg, who is also the one who is very, very widespread on the Ministry of Education's website, where they have these recommendations on how to create order in classes, is very popular at the moment. In this direction, it is not desirable to apply negative sanctions, but to encourage children to concentrate and participate in the teaching by means of exciting teaching. If they don't, it's because the teacher isn't good enough. One can agree with one or other of the directions mentioned here, but surely it cannot be that only one direction should be taught in the country's teacher training institutions, so that the new teachers are left without the necessary knowledge when they hit the reality of today's primary school. It must be in everyone's interest that the new teachers are best equipped to teach our children in primary school. That is why I would ask the Minister to stress to the country's educational establishments for primary school teachers that it is necessary to take a more open-minded view of the curriculum in class management and to make room for all directions in research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126144926	As I also mentioned in my opening remark, I have obtained information from Danish University Colleges and University College Sjælland, which is specifically mentioned here in the article in Information. And University College Zealand states that Niels Egelund's research, which the rapporteur among others. was mentioned, is a significant contribution in the field of class management research and has also been applied to the teacher student concerned, as mentioned in the article in Information. It is part of the literature list for the course of the student concerned. This is among other things. ▪ The teacher and the troubled students • What do you do? ▪ by Niels Egelund from 2006 and another one called "Uro and Discipline in the School." I specifically asked about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145013	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145014	I am incredibly pleased that the Minister has approached and asked about it, because that means that attention is now being paid to it. What you hear when you talk to teacher students is that it really is in a different way. Actually, there are things that are much more popular than others and that you go into depth with, and then there are things that you don't go into too much detail with. And if you put on those theories, you don't get very popular. This corresponds to what is seen on the Ministry of Education's website, which they have just done and to which the Minister also referred. There are constant references to the didactic theory and not to the second theory which I mentioned and which Niels Egelund puts forward. But I am glad that the Minister has approached us so that there is attention to it so that schools cannot continue, as I have heard from students, to stress only one side of the research team in class management.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145107	Thank you for that recognition. I am also interested in the fact that there are different directions to study. That's what education and education are all about, but I don't recognize the picture of my demand both at University College Sjælland and at Danish University Colleges.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145129	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145131	I have spoken to several students and also to researchers who have a very condescending attitude towards certain parts of the research, which is why I can, unfortunately, imagine that if the Minister of Education does not push on it, it may well end up being only some parts of the research that are being taught and that are being taken seriously. This is, of course, highly problematic when reality is now multifaceted and there must be room for different attitudes. I myself am a teacher in social sciences, and I do not think it is okay if one only teach one or two ideologies when it is really three, and especially when it comes to class management, where we know that we have very big problems in primary school. So I would urge the Minister of Education to continue to urge the educational institutions to be more open-minded in their approach to class management research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145224	I am concerned that there is a versatile use of research knowledge on teacher training courses, but as I said, this is also what I have been confirmed after contacting Danish University Colleges and University College Sjælland, which is specifically mentioned in this article. It is quite obvious that the versatile use of the research available must also take place in teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145249	I would like to thank the Minister for Education and Research and Mrs Krarup. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 11 has been completed. We should have come to question 12, but it has been deleted, and then we have come to question 13, and that has been asked by Mrs Tina Nedergaard. At least Mrs Tina Nedergaard is here. There's the thing about students also having to come on time for teaching very much because they have to be calm. This suggests that something has gone wrong in the ability of ministers or their officials to keep up with Parliament's debates, for at least the Minister for Employment has not arrived either. Of course, I am sorry about that. I may not think it is a good example to the public that it is so difficult to keep track of time. Nevertheless, I have to very much oppose my will for the second time today to postpone the sitting. This time I'll start by postponing it 3 minutes. Then it may be that the Minister for Employment comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145640	Then we are ready to resume the meeting. I would just like to say once again that I find it quite unacceptable that we repeatedly see ministers late in the Chamber. The fact that we had completely similar incidents on Thursday does not make things any better. I think that we in the Bureau need to have a talk about whether this should not lead to us having to address the government and ask it to urge us to be here on time. This applies, of course, to the Minister for Employment, but also to the large number of other ministers who find it very difficult to keep to time. It's almost cheerful when you're in here talking about tranquillity and order in classes in elementary school and all that stuff, that we have problems like that. We have come to question 13, and it is to the Minister for Employment, and the question has been asked by Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145727	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is satisfied that the number of cash aid recipients has increased by 27,000 people while this government has been in power and whether the Minister believes that the financial agreement that has just been concluded is moving in the right direction in relation to getting fewer Danes on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145747	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126145749	Thank you. May I begin by apologizing. It is very far from me to have no respect for the Folketing, so I apologize very much. May I then start by saying that even with the best will it has not been possible to identify from which the figure of 27,000 comes. It is not of bad will, but it is just a more professional statement. If you then buy the premise, I would, of course, like to discuss figures. You can, for example. say that the number of cash benefits recipients increased by 22,950 people under Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government, while the number has increased by 17,200 under the current government. It could continue to be said that the number of people employed has increased by over 19 000 under the current government. During Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government, it fell 106,000. Gross unemployment has fallen by 25,000 people under the current government. During Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government it rose by almost 39,000 people. In this way, you can easily find a lot of good and relevant figures, which I too, as part of the current government, would of course like to discuss. However, in order to be a little more specific on this issue, I would say that this government has carried out a number of reforms which have fundamentally changed labour market policy. And the good news is that we can now see that those reforms are starting to work. The number of early retirement pensions awarded has fallen; more people are getting flex jobs and resources; many people who were previously referred to passive public support are now returning to or entering the labour market. At the same time, the first figures show that the number of young people on education and cash benefits has begun to decline and that more people are going to start training. With regard to the Financial Law Agreement, I think it is a good, but also responsible, agreement that basically builds on the government's economic recovery of the country, and this is crucial, but which also creates room for social improvements. Having said that, it is clear that the financial law agreement is a compromise. I think it is obvious that all our partners have also brought some of the cases that they carried to the table. That is really the case when you enter into an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150003	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150004	Nor do I want to spend the time of the Minister or the Danish Parliament discussing one or the other figure. But the government we now have went to the polls, among other things. to reduce the number of cash benefits recipients, and regardless of how the Minister turns and turns it, there have been more cash benefits recipients. The Minister praises the government for having carried out a number of labour market reforms, and there we have the Minister for Finance's own words that the reforms carried out under that government represent only one ninth of what was carried out under the previous government. Those reforms, of course, have taken time to get to work, and the government has, of course, benefited from the room for manoeuvre created by the reforms of the VK. This has been welcomed, which is why it is all the more regrettable that since there is solid economic work on the part of the previous government to build on, it is not taking the opportunity in the Finance Act to take initiatives to reduce the number of cash aid recipients, but rather to increase it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150103	I am not hiding that I am very happy to discuss figures. I think that was also reflected in my first answer. In fact, the government has very good figures in many areas, but I also recognise that, and that goes back to Lars Løkke Rasmussen's reign, we are of course influenced by the fact that there has been an economic crisis. What is just my point, and which I think is important to say here, is that in a number of areas things are clearly going in the right direction and we had room to make these improvements, which I would very much like to acknowledge were in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150144	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150144-2	Thank you. My questions are not so much about the policy of the Left, which I am well aware of, but we have also shown that we are constructive in opposition and have made a number of agreements that we agree with and are proud of together with the government, which has helped to create a better foundation for bringing Denmark forward through the aftermath of the economic crisis. This does not alter the fact that, with a financial law, the government has the opportunity to take initiatives that reduce the number of cash benefits recipients, but that it actually does the exact opposite, and we lack an explanation for that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150222	After all, it is gratifying that Mrs Tina Nedergaard is familiar with the policy of the Left in this area. I am, of course, looking forward to seeing some of the things that have been said translated, among other things. about what is called a modern cash aid ceiling. I would just like to say that it is true that we have made a financial law which means that there is a relapse of 1,000 in the number of people employed, but that must be seen in the light of the fact that the policy implemented by the government in recent years, among other things. In cooperation with the Left Party, over 30,000 jobs are created in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150251	Then we have to make room for a co-questioner, and that is Mrs Inger Løjberg from the Left. I call Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150254	It is okay that the Minister would like to discuss figures, but by doing so I think he is somehow disclaiming responsibility for what it is really about. Because it's about people. I'd much rather discuss people. I would much rather discuss why it is so important to be in the labour market. I would like to say why I think it is important to be on the labour market. It is because you are part of a community when you are in the labour market. The fact that some people are waiting for you and expect something from you every day actually means something to people. And yes, it also contributes positively to the Danish economy, so there are two good reasons for it. That is why I really think that a more interesting discussion is why the government is constantly implementing measures that make it more attractive to be on cash aid than to be on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150354	I do not think I could agree more with what Mrs Inger Løjberg says about the value of being in the labour market, both the personal value of having a job to stand up to in the morning, but also the social value of it. That is also why the government has implemented a number of initiatives, both in the reform work on early retirement and cash aid, and we are now in the employment field, and we have implemented growth packages which, of course, have all had the sole purpose of getting as many as possible into work. Then we have made a financial law in which, in cooperation with the parties with which we have concluded a financial agreement, it has been possible to lift some social areas, and I think it should also be welcomed that the government has pursued a policy that has made it economically possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150443	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150443-2	If that were just right, Minister, that would be good, but it is not right. After all, the mutual obligation has just been abolished, which means that at least 1 100 Danes are reduced by being on the labour market compared to being on cash benefits. So you go in exactly the opposite direction to what you say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150513	That is not true, because what we are saying is that we will do what we can, morning, dinner and evening to get as many Danes into work as possible. It has succeeded, and that is why I started by making a number of precise figures showing that this government has succeeded in doing so. Then I say quite clearly: yes, we have drawn up a financial law agreement which I welcome and which abolishes certain arrangements which were at least concerned with the abolition of them. It cannot upset the picture that this government, with the policy it has implemented, has ensured that there will be an additional employment of over 30,000 people by 2020. I am, in fact, very pleased with, and actually somewhat impressed by, the fact that the government has succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150557	Then we return to the original questioner, and it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard who has her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150603	Thank you. I do not think the Minister himself is satisfied with the results. As I know the Minister, he is also deeply concerned that more and more people have come to cash aid with the financial bill that has been put forward. But I have a very specific question. One of the expensive gifts with this draft budget was the gift to the trade union movement, which increases the right to deduct quotas. I would like to ask the Minister: how does it help the people on cash aid into work, into the active business sector, to give increased deductions for quotas to the trade unions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150642	I was happy with the whole budget law, and then it must be allowed to have some corners that you might be a little more fond of than others. I must not hide the fact that I was very pleased to correct precisely the injustices made by the previous government when it comes to deductions when you are a member of an unemployment fund. I would like to say that for me it is also about the fact that we have a unique system in Denmark, which is about the social partners helping to solve a number of problems, and that also requires that there is support for it. We have now given more opportunities for this, so I fully accept that part of the financial regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150720	That was question 13. We move on to question 14. It is still with the Minister for Employment, but this time it is Mrs Inger Løjberg who is asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150730	Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, Morten Østergaard, who said to Radio 24syv on 21 November that further reforms are needed in the field of cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150742	I think that the cash aid reform that we have is a very good reform, which we have adopted together with a number of other labour market reforms, and in most of them the Left is involved. Of course, it is not the case that we should refrain from adjusting and improving our efforts towards the unemployed. When needed, every modern society needs to develop and improve things. In fact, it is one of the main priorities of the cash aid reform, in close interaction with other reforms that we are now in the process of implementing and which I think is absolutely crucial. That is why I am also pleased that we have asked a group of experts, led by Carsten Koch, to make recommendations on how to create a better employment response to those we are rubbing as non-workers. The group is currently working and I hope and expect that at the beginning of the new year they will present a report on this area. And then I would very much like to recommend that we hopefully once again, in a broad cooperation in the Danish Parliament, take steps to ensure that those who are further out in terms of getting into ordinary employment can get closer to ordinary employment ■ following on from the fine speech made recently by Mrs Inger Løjberg on the value of being at work, for that certainly applies to these people too. So I hope that something good and constructive can come out of the work of the committee we call the Carsten Koch II Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150919	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126150920	Well, the minister can easily get a broad collaboration in the Folketing in this area. Of course, we do not know who will be in government at that time when the Carsten Koch Committee makes its recommendations. But the broad majority should be there regardless of that, at least if it is the case that the Socialists have the vision and mission that it should pay better to work, because the Left starts just there: that it should pay better to work. We have a situation today where the government has created a system and a Denmark where too many people cannot pay to work. So if the government wants to make up for that morass, there is a commitment that we are involved, whether it is the government that is currently in power or whether it is we who have government responsibility, and the current government is thus opposition. If that is the case, cooperation can at least be created. But that just means that we need to create a labour market in which it is always worthwhile to work, and we do not have that at the moment. After all, the government has made it more attractive to be on passive support than in work. This has been done by abolishing the mutual dependency on cohabitants; this has been done by raising the rates of cash and educational assistance for young people, by removing the ceiling on cash benefits and by removing the 225-hour rule. So it was kind of some places you could start. My question could be as follows: will the government or the Social Democratic Party, perhaps it is more real to say now, and thus the Minister's party, help create a labour market in which it is always worthwhile to work, and will it be righted up to the things I have mentioned here that make it less worthwhile now to work than in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151118	I hope I made it very clear before that the things that have happened in the Finance Act are happy with me. Then I think it is also important that we deal with the statement that it should be worthwhile to work. It is actually the case that for 99% there is a gain of more than DKK 1,000. By going to work. For a lot of people, that amount is considerably higher. So it is generally the case that working in Denmark also pays off financially. The second thing I think is the important thing here is that it is very easy to throw things like this out without just making hints of what you really want to put in place so that it pays to work. What are the instruments that Mrs Inger Løvberg's party has? What does include, among other things, the concept of modern cash benefits reform? This is something that we hear in vain, but we have not got anything that looks just like words on it, which is why it is a little difficult to discuss with Mrs Inger Løjberg and the Left, because they are not coming out of the bush and are not just in the vicinity of giving answers to the questions that they themselves are asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151220	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151220-2	But does the Minister agree that we must create a Denmark where it is always worthwhile to work? It's basically that simple. Because today it is not true, Minister, it is not true that you get a lot out of working. There are well over 46,000 Danes who get less than 1,000 DKK. out of going to work rather than being at home. Is that fair? I do not think that is fair and I simply cannot understand why the Social Democrats do not think precisely that action should be taken here. Surely it cannot be right that we have a society in which it is not always worthwhile to work or where you get a very, very small benefit from working and from making an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151259	In debates like this, sometimes you can't help but pull back some strings. If anyone has made an independent effort to pay for as many people as I said before, to actually take a job in addition to it, to have a commitment to it and to bring about all the other values that lie in getting a job, it is this government which, among other things, is here. with a tax reform made sure that it was not those at the top that we saw under the previous government who received tax relief, but it was they at the bottom. That's where we've gone a long way. We have made sure, as I said before, that too far, the vast majority, i.e. 99%. of the population, there is a cash advantage in going to work. That is why I think that if this is to be just a bit of a solid debate, then the Left must come out of the sand soon and answer what instruments the Left intends to use to reach some of the last ones we need here. The government has actually taken some very large and decisive steps, and I am pleased about that, because it must, of course, pay to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151359	Then Tina Nedergaard from the Left is the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151402	After all, Mrs Inger Løjberg did not have the opportunity to answer the last question, and that is not her obligation, but it is the Minister's duty to answer the questions. But I can certainly lift the veil if the Minister has not discovered that the Left intends to go to the polls, that we are relaxing the tax on the lowest labour income, insofar as we get a majority, and secondly, that we want to create a modern ceiling on cash aid to ensure that it is better to work. But let me turn to another issue, which is very much under discussion at the moment, where I am genuinely interested in the Minister's reply. If it is always possible in Denmark to take a job, any job, but fair and proper under proper conditions, how does the government actually explain the paradox that we have over 100,000 foreigners who may even work primarily in unskilled jobs, while we have hundreds of thousands of Danes of working age who are on passive support. After all, it is a paradox that the government will have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151504	I just wanted a slightly more detailed answer to what the Left very often uses in this debate, namely a modern ceiling on cash benefits. It is a word that can be well put in the mouth of some, but it could be nice, because you could have a slightly more equal debate, that you just put a tiny bit of facts on what is behind that concept. That's what we need to have a proper discussion about this. The second thing I would like to say is that I am very happy to say that it is I, as Minister for Employment, who is allowed to carry out our new employment reform, which we are actually dealing with at the moment in the Folketing, because it is precisely based on both upgrading and individual treatment of those people who are without work. Cooperation between the cashiers and the job centres, which I believe will be of great importance for the fact that there are a great many people who can get even closer to the labour market, seems to me to be a major and important reform of efforts to ensure that as many as possible are part of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151602	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151604	Now we see, among other things. On television and also in the debates on social media, there are examples that there are quite excellent jobs in the service sector, not least, which are largely occupied by people from outside, who make a great effort and all respect for what even came here with few or perhaps no Danish knowledge, and who have no prior qualification in the Danish education system, but who go in and raise some jobs in the Danish labour market. If it is the case that it is always possible to take a job for the Danes, then my question is simply: how does the government explain the paradox that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151645	I would like to make it quite clear that the benefit system or the cash benefits system is not a self-table. You don't decide if you're in it. It is actually the case that we have the concept of duties and rights, and the word duties come before rights. This means that if you are, by the way, ready for work and on unemployment benefits or on cash benefits and you are offered a job, you have the duty to take it, and I think that is a very important point in relation to our entire welfare community. So I would like to say that the concept of availability is not discussed in my optics. Duty and rights go hand in hand, but duties come before rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151727	Then we return to the main questioner, and it is Mrs Inger Løjberg who has her last question on this occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151733	The Minister is very concerned, at least when the Minister has to say that it will actually pay for almost all Danes to work. But then I would just like the Minister to relate to a figure that came as late as yesterday, I think, to the Finance Committee from the Ministry of Finance, where it is said that for 17,700 Danes the fact is actually that they pay to go to work. They would be made more available by being on public passive support than they would by going to work. 17,700 Danes pay every day to go to work. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151818	But then it is so happy that we have had the government that we have just had, because if it were the case that it had been under the previous government, that figure would have been much, much larger, because our tax reform was precisely helping to ensure, because we took off at the bottom, that it would pay for the many people to go to work. I would just like to repeat again to Mrs Inger Nøjberg, to the Left, that for 99%. of the population there is a prize, a cash prize, of at least DKK 1,000, and for a very many, that prize in kroner and ear is considerably greater. I think that is important and, moreover, it is not a debate on whether or not you want it, because, as I said before, the concept of Council is perfectly clear and is not under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151856	Then we have finished Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14, so I would like to thank Mrs Inger Løjberg; the Minister for Employment remains with us a little longer, because there are a few more questions for him. The next question is No. 15, and that's by Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151911	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that it is important to create private jobs in Denmark in order to secure more unemployed people a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151924	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126151925	May I say to Mr. Knox? Hans Andersen, that it is very tempting to say yes and then sit down, because there can be no discussion on that issue. Of course I think so. That is also why I am very pleased that we are, among other things. along with Left through two laps have created growth plans. It was first the "Growth Plan" Denmark which has a goal of creating 150,000 private jobs. With regard to the "Growth Plan" we contribute to a rise in GDP of 6 billion. kr. in 2020 through a number of initiatives strengthening the business environment, including, inter alia: lower corporation tax. Most recently, together with the Left here in 2014, we have also created a growth package with 89 concrete proposals that raise GDP by 5.5 billion. kr., and which in 2020 ensures improved conditions for private companies. So the government has among other things. together with the Left created a framework to raise GDP by 11.5 billion. kr. Towards 2020. In addition, with the tax reform and the reform of early retirement, the SU, cash benefits and sickness benefits, and the employment effort, we have increased structural employment by more than 30,000. Finally, the unemployment rate, which I think is an important point, is reduced by 25,000 full-time people, from approximately 158,000 to 133,000 full-time people. So the answer is very obvious yes, but what is more obvious is that, as a government, we have actually taken the lead in creating jobs in Denmark, both by keeping a high level of public investment and by ensuring framework conditions. It has, moreover, most often been in cooperation with the Left Party. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152106	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152107	Thank you for your answer. You can then as available look out the window and think: Will there now be more jobs here in the coming year, 2015, and will my chance to join the working community be greater? So is the question to the Minister for Employment: Will the chance be greater or will it be smaller? Has the government, with the Finance Act agreement it has made with Enhedslisten and SF, made the chance greater, or has the chance diminished, because are there more private jobs in the Finance Act that has been made now, or have there been fewer private jobs in the Finance Law Agreement that has been concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152155	It can be said that if we had not had a government that cares about Denmark and the well-being of the Danes, there would have been much that had looked different. The contributions we have contributed to this are large and extensive. Overall, we have ensured that there is still a strong economy in Denmark. A number of other countries have failed, but we have managed to do so. We have ensured that through a series of reforms we have leveraged Danish society to also accept the new challenges that exist. We are now discussing, moreover, in good cooperation with the author, a new employment reform which would like to bring people closer to the labour market through a number of the initiatives that are here. But, and that must then be my final comment, Denmark, like all other countries, is also part of the international crisis. This must also be taken into account. But the work we can do for ourselves, I think we have done good and right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152254	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152256	However, the question was quite specific whether in the financial agreement concluded between the government, SF and Enhedslisten there are elements that could create more private jobs. That's what this is all about. There is virtually no growth, and how do we create it? The excuse that things are going just as badly in other countries cannot be used by the unemployed. So it is a little bit about whether we want to give priority to private jobs or whether we want to give priority to greater public spending. After all, the question is what action the government and the Minister for Employment will take to increase the chances of getting a job by 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152341	I do not think I have used it, that things are going badly in other countries, as an excuse. For the sake of general public education, I would say that this is also part of a discussion on where we are going in terms of employment, development and so on. I'd like to say to Mr. Hans Andersen, that we are not a small closed economy. Fortunately, we are an open economy which is part of international economic conditions and globalisation, etc. I'm just mentioning it as a factor that I don't think you can completely close your eyes to. My point is that things must of course be seen in a context, and the context of government policy leads to Denmark being better equipped now than when we had the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152426	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152429	After all, the minister wins the prize as a politician who is at least capable of quoting the punchlines we hear over and over again from the Social Democracy and also sometimes the Radicals: Denmark is now better equipped to go through the crisis etc. etc. When Mr. Hans Andersen and I are asking this question because during the first three years of the government there have been significantly fewer jobs in the public sector. The figure has fallen by several thousand, and that is because the public sector uses the tax revenue provided by the private sector as petrol to finance its operations. We all agree that this is necessary. In the event that Europe is in crisis and the government has gradually had to downgrade its own bid on how high growth is in society, we are simply asking in all silence: is it really necessary to raise employment in the public sector in its financial law and at the same time do nothing for the private sector when it is the private sector that is the foundation for us to finance the public sector? I hope that the Minister does not see this as some kind of petty attack, because it is not. It is a profound interest in the policy of social democracy which, in my view, has been surprisingly sensible in the early years. Unfortunately, however, reason did not last all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152548	I really feel the heat flowing into this place. I have a few things to do, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt says. Firstly, I would like to say that punchlines are good enough, especially when they are truthful and correct. The second is that concern for the public sector should be felt if we are in favour of zero growth, because then it could look quite different. What I want to say is that we have used all the instruments. We have both ensured that we have the investment profile with the largest investments in reality in decades with super hospitals, the Fehmarn fixed link, I think the questioner knows them almost as well as I do while we have managed to reverse the picture that was under the previous government when we lost industrial jobs, so that we actually in cooperation with, among others. The Left Party carried out two growth packages, which I believe are crucial for Denmark in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152645	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152646	After all, I suspect the Minister is actually a very reasonable man. I understand that the Minister's concern barometer is a little overwhelmed when words such as zero growth, spending freezes and other things are mentioned. I think that the concern barometer must then go completely crazy in the Minister's office when it is apparent that there has been negative growth in the country's municipalities, as well as on the watch of the Socialist Government. If I may ask, it is perhaps just because I am surprised that such a sensible policy can be pursued with the Left, Conservatives and other parties in the first few years, then, just when the elections are about to take place, to start raising employment in the public sector again. If you didn't just keep going, I'd like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152728	That is what is so great about being a party that at least politically can do a little for both sides. I think that is absolutely crucial. We have implemented good financial law agreements with both one side of the Folketing and with the other side of the Folketing. We have carried out a series of reforms in which the author's party has been involved almost all the way, growth packages, on which we have also agreed. What I just think is so absolutely crucial is that we are now also implementing a financial law, in which there are also some social aspects which I am very pleased to see lies in that financial law, and we have been able to do so because we have pursued the policy of financial responsibility, as we have done, during the period in which we have been entrusted with the responsibility of government in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152816	Then we return to the main questioner, who this time is Mr. Hans Andersen, who gets his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152822	Thank you. One might ask: What is good for Denmark? And the government has assessed that, or rather it has not assessed it, because the government has thought: what is good for the government? It was then to make a financial agreement with the friends, but this private job thing is so messed up. Because when I listen to this and ask again and again how many private jobs the Finance Act creates the framework for in 2015, I get no answers. And that is the question I would just like to repeat at the end: how many private jobs does the 2015 Finance Act create the framework for?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152911	I think I'm gonna save Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen to hear the figures that I read out to another questioner at the beginning of Question Time, because they clearly show that during the previous government it was just one way and it was down. Under the current government, things have, fortunately, been much better, and that is because we have focused on creating growth and prosperity in Denmark. We have done this both in terms of keeping our hands under the public economy, but also in terms of ensuring that the private sector has been included, and that is why I am very pleased with the growth packages that we, among other things, have seen from the point of view of an employment minister. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working on the reform of employment which we are currently discussing in the Danish Parliament, all of which is pointing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126152957	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 15; however, the Minister for Employment will remain in office for a further period of time. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 16, which is also for the Minister of Employment, and this is where Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who is the main questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153011	Yes, and in this respect, the Minister can be commended for being here on time, unlike his colleagues, and I look forward to the debate. Does the Minister, as responsible for the employment system, consider that, after the conclusion of the agreement on the Finance Act, it has become easier for the unemployed to get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153027-2	Now we have been through it very naturally in the previous rounds, but out of respect for the question and what you can see, I will reply again. I would like to say, as I said earlier, that I think it is a good financial law agreement we have made with the SF and the Enhedslisten. I think this is an agreement in which, within a financially responsible framework, we increase investment in the health of Danes, ensure more security in the labour market and improve conditions for both children and the elderly. As an important point, I would also like to say that the agreement must be seen in the context of responsible economic policy, including the reforms that the government has undertaken to lead Denmark safely through an economic crisis and to correct the irresponsible policy that was in relation to certain elements when looking further back. We have implemented a series of reforms which help to ensure that we increase structural employment by more than 30,000 by 2020; we have reduced unemployment by approx. Twenty-five thousand full-time people. We have reduced the number of people on public support and we have implemented large growth packages that increase growth in the private sector. This also means that we have created spaces to implement social improvements, for example. the area of cash aid, without any significant weakening of the reform agenda. As an element of the agreement, we reduce structural employment by approx. 1.000 people in lasting effect. But, as I said, it has to be seen in relation to the fact that we have increased it by 30,000. Having said that, I must say that I am pleased with the agreement that has been reached with the SF and the Enhedslisten, as I said. It is the case that when you have a debate, each one gets some things with which, like, you can recognise yourself in this agreement, and I am glad that our partners have also got that. Then I would like to move on to the agenda that I also think is important: those who are not now part of the labour market are getting closer to it, on the one hand, by continuing economic policy and, on the other hand, by ensuring that the efforts we are making when we take care of those who have become unemployed are getting better, more consistent and more forward-looking, among other things. by a faster qualification. These are all the elements of the employment reform that our two parties, among others, have. is part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153233	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153235	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It would therefore also be sad if the Minister stood in the Chamber and said that he was sorry for the financial agreement reached, so it is not such a huge surprise, either for you, for the possible listeners in this Chamber or for those sitting in front of the television screen. But I do not want to bore the Minister, and that is why it may be that we can challenge the Minister with some questions which are within the framework but which, after all, have not been answered earlier today. A few days ago, Denmark's Radio brought a programme about foreigners who are no longer here, and several examples of Danes who were ready to take a job were shown, but instead chose to get on transfer income because they either didn't want to work that day, or either didn't want to work, and it's perhaps also from some of the situations that are going on every day that this question is formulated. The minister said a handful of minutes ago that there are very many Danes who earn money by going to work, but in very many Danes' cases the difference is between going to work and getting a transfer income after all a few hundred kroner. Could it not have been imagined that the Finance Act could have been used to reward the people who take responsibility a little more? In other words, if I had not been a politician, I would have been at least as offended as I was now the other day, when I was able to see on the couch for myself that there are indeed citizens who take advantage of the system and whose interest and desire to work is so uncommonly poor and small. It is, of course, to ignore all the Danes who stand up every morning and work hard and make sure to contribute to the community that we in here so much want to create. Now that the government has had a unique opportunity to pursue a relatively reasonable policy, taking into account the starting point, it is a bit of a pity that one then chooses to go left, to Enhedslisten, and in an election year we propose mild gifts where in previous years we have helped to provide the economic space for it. Now, of course, my compliments to the Minister are not going to be greater than necessary, but I do believe that the Minister has shown himself to be reasonably reasonable and financially responsible in the past and with reasonable sympathy and concern about the things that really matter, then the Minister cannot understand that it provokes people, both the Minister and myself, including, when they can see this on the television screen, and that they may also wonder that they have done nothing more to make the reward for taking a job bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153456	I'd like to say to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, that when we talk about the concept of availability, an open door runs in. I had the opportunity to comment on it just afterwards, and I think I was able to say something about the fact that the benefits, whether it is in the cash benefits system or it is in the benefit system, are not a roof-top table. We have a concept in Denmark that I am very concerned about, which is called duties and rights. When it is the case that you receive benefits, it is because we have a welfare society where it is the case that people should not fall completely through the systems, and I am very much in favour of that. But in order for this to be reasonable, you have to be available. So, in other words, the old words about duties and rights, where it is very clear that the duties are first, are not discussed in my perspective, as well as the welfare society and the taking care of each other are not discussed either. But duties and rights go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153552	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153553	Now, I was hoping that the Minister would say that, and I am glad that the Minister said so, because if the carrot is not enough then we sometimes have to find the whip. I am surprised that in the Ministry of Employment's system there has been little interest in how many times every year the municipalities contact an unemployment fund and say: we have here a unemployed person who is actually available for the labour market, but who has said no, and then there can be no figures in the Ministry of Employment as to how many times I may be wrong, but I cannot immediately find it that the cashiers have then taken away their cash benefits or other benefits. This is not something for which political interest has been expressed under the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153632	I would just like to make it very clear: the concept of Council is not under discussion. In fact, I think that the unique thing about Danish society is also what makes people show up at work and are willing to pay taxes, namely that we have a welfare society where we hold hands under each other. I also note that when we had the happy days in quotation marks with the boom, there were a lot of people who entered the labour market, so the Danes would like to work. If we are now some who do not want to, then it is only to say that duties and rights we have in this society, and if you receive a public service and are labour market ready, then it is not a discussion whether you should take a job or not, then of course you should take that job. This is the whole foundation of the welfare society that we have created in Denmark and that I am a great supporter of, and that I will do what I can to preserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153721	Yes, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt take a short break. Then there's the co-questioner, who's Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153727	Thank you. But then the Minister must also be interested in discovering the extent to which the cashiers actually carry out this available assessment. That is of course very interesting, because it can be said that we have one, I believe, very black box. At least it's hard to get in and get numbers out of it. But I would very much like to discuss the concept of availability with the Minister, because I do not think we can disagree that there is duty and right and that duty is first. We're not going to discuss that. The minister also says that it is not a self-table and that it is not a discussion. But I also think the minister like I saw the broadcast the other day. The Minister commented on it at least afterwards, and there were examples of saying no to a job. Then I would like to ask the Minister: if you say no to a job it was a full-time job, and the excuse from the citizen was that the 2,000 kroner you could earn extra was not enough, and that is why you said no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153837	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153838	I think it is wise that we, as politicians, should not deal with matters, so I will refrain from doing so. I would like to say that I find that the cashiers are concerned about the commitments they have here, and I also note with great pleasure that, among other things. The trade union 3F was very clear in some statements they made, namely that you do not have the right to opt out of a job, that is that when you are on these benefits you are available. And that is why I just want to make it very clear: when you receive public services, cash money from the cash register, but if you are ready for work, it is not a roof-top table, it is not something we are discussing, so that you also have a commitment. And although repetitions may be intolerable, I would just like to say once again: justice and duty are inextricably linked to me, and therefore there should be no discussion that one has the duty to make one's contribution, whether through education or jobs, when one is able to do so. So it's not up for discussion in my book.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153940	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126153941	But we still have a challenge here, which I think we need to address. For it may well be that 3F quite conveniently went out and said that the allowance is not an insurance against a job. As such, no one can disagree with it, but now that people entitled to benefits say no to a 30-hour job, they are entitled to it within the rules. Nothing happens, and the consequence is that that job becomes obsessed with, for example. a young, fresh man from Poland who says, "The 30 hours I'll take." And then we still have one on cash benefits. What will the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154024	I would just like to make it clear that I have no suspicion whatsoever of the A-boxes, on the contrary. I experience a lot of committed and talented people who sit out there and are preoccupied with managing what they have to do in the best way possible. I'd like to say something to Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, that I am pleased with the reforms that we have, and perhaps I am particularly pleased and concerned with the reform of employment that we are discussing in the Danish Parliament, because I think that is precisely what I can say with great strength that those who negotiated it, because I was not part of it myself, have pointed out a number of important areas in which we have the opportunity to get closer to the ordinary labour market, and I would like to join with Mr Andersen. Hans Andersen helped to make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154107	Then we return to the main questioner, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who has his last question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154112	Nevertheless, my colleague, Mr. Hans Andersen, an excellent point. Every day foreign workers come to Denmark who want to take jobs we say no to. Often the people who say no are the recipients of benefits. Now I have allowed myself to ask the minister's ministry if you can get an overview of those figures. And now I am not going to put the sins of the past into the hands of the Minister, but one has historically been very slow to answer such questions when we have asked them in the past, so that it might be that the Minister here in the Parliament would promise to do his part to bring this kind of information to the market, so that the Folketing would be informed of the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154149	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154150	I just want to say that I will be very concerned that my ministry is answering the questions that the Danish Parliament is asking. An important part of the ministry's work is to respond to the Folketing as quickly and correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154208	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, and I should also like to thank the Minister for Employment, because now there are no more questions for the Minister for Employment, at least not in here today. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, which is addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. The question has been asked by Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154225	Mrs. Karen Ellemann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154226	I would like to ask the Minister what initiatives the government intends to take in relation to foreign homeless people residing illegally in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154237	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that the issue of illegal residents falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Justice, but I can of course say so much that foreigners who are illegally staying in this country have an obligation to leave. However, since the question has been put to me as Minister for Social Affairs, I understand that it is also being asked what social offers the government intends to put into effect in relation to the illegal foreign homeless. In fact, we could be very brief here, because we do not intend to take any measures at all for illegal residents. As the questioner is aware, it is the case that social services established under the Services Act, such as: shelters or accommodations are only for persons legally resident in this country. And when we talk about social offers to the homeless, both Danish and foreign homeless, I would like to stress that they must be created and operated within the framework of the country's laws. At the same time, in order to receive support from the Ministry of Social Affairs, compliance with the legislation in Denmark, including, of course, the law on foreigners, is a prerequisite. And as my reply to the Social Affairs Committee of 23 October shows, the Ministry of Justice has stated that, according to the legislation of foreigners, it is not for a foreigner to be intentionally assisted in illegally staying in this country. The Ministry of Justice considers that it also includes accommodation for illegal aliens. But that doesn't mean that the government doesn't do anything for homeless people legally residing in this country. That is precisely where we have set aside approx. 18 million kr. to strengthen the efforts of the most vulnerable young people, in this case homeless, as well as funds for the establishment of emergency overnight services during the cold winter months. In addition, both the wage-pool negotiations and the Finance Law negotiations ensure support for the Church's Cross Army Natcafé.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154445	Then it's Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154446	Let me start by thanking the Minister for a very precise answer to foreigners who are illegally staying in Denmark, i.e. their opportunities for access to emergency accommodation. After all, it is the case that, year after year, initiatives are actually being taken which are known as emergency accommodation, but then perhaps in reality are not in a position to check whether the users who come to the shelters are foreigners who are here legally, or foreigners who are here illegally. There is a little question: is it because you cannot, when you keep making emergency night pools year after year, it is a little bit that I may at least consider it more a permanent offer? Isn't it really a permanent offer you make when you make emergency nights? Because no one really knows whether the users who come to the shelters are people who actually return night after night.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154608	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154609	In other words, we have just made an agreement on the night cafe ourselves and, as Mrs Karen Ellemann knows very well, we negotiated on how long we should give the economy to the night cafe. What we agreed on was 11⁄2 years. It wasn't a permanent offer. That goes without saying, because it is called an emergency night, and that is by its very nature what it is. I remember very well that we turned it around many times. And I can only repeat, as I have said, that if you are an illegal person in Denmark, it is of course a situation in which the police and the authorities concerned, the immigration authorities, must take care of it and help the person.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154709	I would like to say to those who are holding talks in the corner that, of course, I think it is exciting to keep up with the internal discussions of the Left, especially when they also include the Radical Left, but it might be appropriate for them to take place outside the Chamber. Then I will give the floor again to Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154723	Thank you for that, President. Again, it is good to hear the Minister be so reasonably clear, also in relation to who may make use of the emergency night offer. But what is the long-term solution to this problem? Because isn't it really just symptom treatment? Or can the Minister confirm that he agrees with her predecessor, Mrs Karen Hækkerup, who has just said that more long-term solutions are needed in relation to foreign homeless people? And they must, for me, be found first and foremost in the countries from which the foreign homeless without legal residence come, and not by the fact that we are actually expanding the Danish welfare model and putting it further under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154816	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154817	I fully agree that the solutions that exist must, of course, be found in the countries concerned. This is also happening in Brussels, where we should try to raise much more awareness and information about the situation in Denmark. And again, let me just stress that this is emergency night. If you are to drive that place, it must be for people who are legally resident in Denmark. It can't be graded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154847	Then we've come to see a fellow questioner, and that's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154853	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the reply sent by the Minister to the Danish Parliament in July 2014, i.e. this summer, when the Minister was supposed to reply to when the announced guide on the access of homeless EU citizens to accommodation offers is expected to be completed and published. Here, the Minister replied that reply I would be happy to help with, if it is not so fresh in memory, because there will be the answer to many things that it is expected to be completed in the autumn of 2014. Does this mean that the Folketing can expect it to come here this way during the next week or week thereafter, or when is it that you are about to finish it? After all, you have had a long time to think about. Or when is it that the Minister will say that the Folketing can have it at the latest, now that it has had so much time to try to get an overview of the Schengen acquis?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126154950	It's taken a long time because this is a really complex area... a very, very complex area. We have no intention of delaying it in any way whatsoever, but what we have an intention of doing is, of course, to give a clear answer. It's taken longer than we expected. All I can say is that I can't tell you that it's coming on it and the exact date, but that the message from my house is that it should be coming soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155015	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155016	It is, of course, an exciting question as to how soon it will be, especially in relation to this government. Perhaps the Minister could come a little closer? I do not think it is quite reassuring that since July 2014 we have now, and I suppose that we had started this before, still cannot provide an answer to this to the Danish Parliament and thus also to the municipalities of the country to which this information is to be sent. However, if the Minister could come a little closer, it would be a good thing and then perhaps in the second rebirth of course also begin to deal with the problem of how the government intends to ensure that only foreigners who are legally resident in the country actually make use of accommodation offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155103	The first part I answered very clearly, namely that I cannot make a statement that it will be next week or next week again. All I can say is that my house and also the Ministry of Justice are working hard to complete the instructions. And are we gonna find some proportions here? Because that's not the solution we're going to come up with. It is a guide to the various shelters and still. It doesn't make any sense that this area is clear, namely that if you are here illegally, you shouldn't be in the places in question. You know that, too. If you are here illegally, the police and the authorities concerned, the immigration authorities, must, of course, ensure that you can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155146	Then we return to the main questioner again. It's Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155152	But then we will wait with excitement for a good solution to be found tomorrow or when it will be, in relation to the rather important orientation. Because it is quite clear that the municipalities have difficulty in handling exactly the control of who it is that generally avails itself of the emergency accommodation and shelters that exist in this country. My last question must be quite clear: does the Minister really believe that there will be more or fewer illegal homeless people as a result of the fact that we are implementing what, at least in my optics, when we do so year after year, must be regarded as permanent accommodation for the homeless?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155238	I find it very difficult to understand why Mrs Karen Ellemann is so opposed to it when one month ago Mrs Ellemann himself helped to find money for exactly the Natcafé. But peace be to it. By its very nature, I cannot know if there will be more or less, and that must be the case. You can't predict the future. It is quite correct that I should also like to agree with Mrs Ellemann that the municipalities find this very difficult. In fact, that is also why it has taken time with the guidance; for it is a very difficult area. Again: We have no intention that this should go slow in any way. On the contrary, we have an intention to have a guide which is ready and which the municipalities can use. But it's a really, really complex area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155324	Then we were done with Question No. 17. I would like to thank both Mrs Karen Ellemann and the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. For Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène: 18 is submitted to the Minister for Transport, and it is submitted by Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155342	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155346	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council. Well, it's nice to see Mr. Knox. Per Clausen in a new role. The question is this: when the Minister, during a consultation held on 6 November 2014 on the alignment of the Copenhagen-Ringstedbane, stated that it has not been possible to carry out EIA studies on wildlife in the area of an eastern installation of levelless cutting because the period after 19 May is outside the breeding season, does the Minister maintain this opinion and what has changed in relation to the studies carried out by the western solution for levelless cutting in relation to bats and field lizards, respectively, on 7 June 2013 and 2 August 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155438	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155440	Thank you. After all, we are down to a level of detail on breeding periods and other things, which is a little my out of the way as Minister for Transport, I will say, so before we go all the way down to the detail, I think I will outline the progress. As a follow-up to a broad settlement, including with the Danish People's Party, in May of this year I tabled a bill no. L 152 on a level-free merge west of Ringsted. Afterwards, there was a lot of debate, among other things. The Committee on Transport and Tourism and a proposal for an Eastern solution which the committee would have liked to have examined in depth. Then it happens that on 20 May I propose in writing to the Committee on Transport that the bill in question should not be promoted. In that letter I write, among other things.: I will therefore discuss with the conciliation circle behind the law to postpone the project while a full EIA of an Eastern solution is being prepared. Both locations will then be illuminated at the same level, and a decision will then be taken on the best possible basis. After all, there were a number of committee questions the following day, and on 21 May the committee received my answer to Question 39. It indicates how long the construction work will be delayed if the committee chose to do what they did, namely to implement an EIA of the Eastern Solution. I have thus answered question 39 from committee member Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. It is quite clear in black and white here that an EIA takes about 11⁄2-2 years to complete. So it has to be said that the Committee on Transport was fully informed of the decision that was taken. In the second half of May, the Committee on Transport agreed that an Eastern solution should be thoroughly examined and that the draft law on the Western solution would not be promoted. From a committee that agrees, you have to have some money and, as I wrote in my letter, I would discuss it with the conciliation circle. It was then at the end of May that the committee agreed on this. The funds which Banedanmark is going to use to cover the costs of the EIA that the committee wanted must then be found in terms of funding and one month later, on 24 June, there were negotiations, and it was also with the Danish People's Party, about a green transport policy and, as stated to the committee, that was on the agenda, and we also agreed to allocate money for an EIA study. Now I should stop, because the President has now risen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155731	That's it. You have to plan your speech, so it fits with time. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155736	Thank you. Well, I think it's fantastic to spend all your speaking time not answering what's being asked. I would like to read the question, but we are spending an awful lot of time on this, because I assume that the Minister has had it sent in writing and has had the opportunity to read the question. It simply says in its simplicity whether the Minister maintains his opinion from the consultation that the EIA cannot be carried out in 2014 because the period after 19 May is outside the breeding season. That is what the question was about. If the Minister maintains that statement, I can tell the Minister that the committee has then been misinformed, because that is not what I can begin to lecture the Minister about, because I think I did so at the conciliation meeting. I will not be able to say whether the Minister will reply on the basis of any information coming from Banedanmark, but it must then have some consequence for Banedanmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155827-2	What kind of haste are we talking about here? It was quite clear to the Transport Committee that if you chose not to promote this bill and instead set in motion an EIA study, it was quite clear that this project will not be able to get into the large new railway system between Copenhagen, Køge and Ringsted. It can't be reached! The window closed there in the spring. That was the decision of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on an enlightened basis. So I would like to ask the questioner what it is that we are discussing, what the key thing we need to find is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155905	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155907	Well, that's in the question. In all its simplicity, we are discussing whether the committee has obtained incorrect information. We had a mini-consultation which included various considerations on the eastern and western lines, where Thomas Albøg Olsen presented his proposal and Banedanmark presented their proposals. At that time, the committee demanded that we have an independent study of the two methods. The Minister then informs the committee during the consultation in question that it is not possible to do so until the EIA has been thoroughly prepared for the eastern route, and this cannot be done because it is outside the breeding season, so you have to wait until spring 2015. It is a deliberate training by Banedanmark, because the period after 19 May is not outside the breeding season. That is an incorrect information we are given.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126155959	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160000	As I mentioned in my reply, I gave an answer to the Parliament's Transport Committee, and I did so on 21 May. It is quite clear that if an alternative solution is chosen east of Ringsted, the timetable will be delayed 11⁄2-2 years. It was also clear in my letter to the Committee on Transport that, if that were what the committee chose to do, I would take it up with the parties of the Danish Parliament that are involved in the conciliation, i.e. also the Danish People's Party, which was sitting with us in June and granted money. Would it have been thought by the Danish People's Party that something was already being done before there was a grant? I hope you didn't think so. I hope that the papers that come to the Committee on Transport have been read. And when you grant money, they also work in society, but only after they are granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160047	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160049	That requires some questions today, because I have still not received an answer to my questions. It is possible, then, that the project will be extended during the construction phase, but at the small consultation we had, we asked for an independent assessment of the two solutions, both in relation to the time period and in relation to the price, which also operates with some astronomical figures from Banedanmark. We were promised them, and the Minister just does not think that a technical study can be carried out until a thorough EIA report has been produced. After all, studies have been carried out, including on the eastern route, in relation to environmental impacts. However, the excuse for not being able to do so until 2015 is that the period after 19 May is outside the breeding season. I just have to say that the bats are breeding in June and July. Now there may not be many bats in an open field, because that is what we are talking about. And as for the field lizard, they lay eggs and they hatch in August. So this is some vertical nonsense with which the Minister has informed the committee. Where the Minister then has his information, I shall not be able to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160158	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160200	I would like us to have a debate on an enlightened basis, and I will provide a reply to the Danish Parliament on exactly the days when the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee is discussing this matter. I write: If you choose to set an EIA in motion, it will take another 11⁄2-2 years. And now we have to hear the question: why does it take 11⁄2-2 years extra? It does so because, as I told the Committee on Transport, it will do so if it is chosen. It was then chosen to do so, and it was even chosen to enter into a settlement where the money was allocated to it. Then I'll listen to questions about why it takes a long time. That's kind of what I told you about. If you're not happy with that time, you probably shouldn't have started this work. But that's what they did. Then we must also stand by the fact that it takes the time that we were fully informed about all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160249	Thank you. The question round is closed. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Transport, and it is also this time from Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160258	Thank you for that, President. The question is: can the Minister guarantee that the content of an EIA statement on level-free crossing east or west of Ringsted is only determined by Banedanmark, who is the authority on the project?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160313	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160315	It is Banedanmark who prepares EIA studies on a level-free merge east of Ringsted Station, and as you know, they have also prepared the EIA study on the level-free merge west of Ringsted Station. It is precisely Banedanmark, which is the construction authority and has the competence to carry out EIA studies on the railway. This means that Banedanmark is also responsible for what is contained in the EIA study at Ringsted. But it is not the case that Banedanmark alone decides what the content of such an EIA study should be. As you know, the EIA directive regulates what such an EIA should contain. That is quite clear. I don't even have to tell Banedanmark to live up to that. It's perfectly logical. So Banedanmark carries out the investigations, and they do so under the responsibility of the law and the directive on which it is based. If that were not the case, we would have some problems, quite different ones, I would almost say bigger, because then we can complain to the courts, and then the investigations will have to go over and over, so it is important that this is done on the basis of the EIA directive, so that we do not find ourselves in such a situation. The aim, as I understood the Committee on Transport, was to have two equal bases for decision on an Eastern and Western solution, which will then be externally quality-proof. There is an EIA for the west today and there is an EIA for the east. When they are both there, it will be externally quality-proof, and then politicians can make a decision. Is it a pity it couldn't be timed with the new building solution? Yes, it is, but it was something that the committee was fully aware of in the spring when the decision was made to create an Eastern EIA.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160518	Then it is the rapporteur again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160520	I would just like to remind the Minister that what the committee asked for was an assessment of the two technical solutions to find out what was possible for the price. We do not really care about EIA statements, because they can easily be done at the same time, because having them done has nothing to do with the two solutions in terms of economy and time horizons. I would just like to point out that if it is Banedanmark and the Minister has confirmed that the guidelines for the EIA report are set out, then on the western route three inspections were carried out of the area with a view to the EIA of the fauna on 7 June and 2 August 2013 respectively. So these are dates after 19 May. That's three visits we're talking about. Why could it not have been done here in 2014 and, for my sake, on the same dates? We'd have had the EIA statement by now. But apparently there are different criteria for Banedanmark, depending on whether that is one solution or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160621	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160623	The questioner must then prove that it is so-called lax and that there are different criteria. There is an EIA directive. As I said at the outset, I assume that the EIA directive is, of course, being implemented to the letter. No more, but of course no less. Then it can be said that it was a shame, and it could also have been fine if we made an EIA of both, even before we chose the Western solution, but that was not done in the conciliation parties, which the Danish People's Party was among. When the debate came, it was said: well, let us stop sometime and look at the Eastern solution. It then takes some extra time, and you were fully informed about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160705	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160709	Of course the minister can hang himself in the word lax, but when you do an overall inspection with the Western solution on 30 April 2013 and then look at bats in July and again look at the field lizard on 2 August and on that basis make an EIA statement, my simple question is: If it is the criteria for Banedanmark to comply with the EIA legislation, why couldn't you do the same here in 2014 on the same dates? Then we would have been finished now, instead of Banedanmark saying they can't do anything until spring 2015 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160746	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160748	The committee has been fully informed that if an Eastern EIA were to be set in motion, it would take an extra 11⁄2 to 2 years. The questioner himself sat around the table in the Ministry of Transport back on 24 June. We made an agreement where we just financed an EIA. It even states: "The supplementary EIA study, in conjunction with the already carried out EIA studies on a western location of a level-free merge, shall form the basis for deciding where to place a level-free merge at Ringsted station. ▪ You decide and you fund an additional EIA of the Eastern Solution. Then we can discuss whether it takes a long time. Yes, it does, but it is the law that we have to abide by.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160829	Then the final question to the rapporteur is this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160832	It is absolutely true that we allocated money to an EIA statement. It costs an awful lot of money. We spend millions on that each year, instead of spending it on sensible installations. But that is not what the debate is about at all. It's about why you train this whole EIA statement so it can't start until spring 2015. The Minister has not answered that question, and I am sure I will not get an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160855	Thank you. The minister in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160857	Yes. In other words, if you listened to my reply, you would have heard that, just under a month after the Transport Committee took the decision, I invited you to hold negotiations on 24 June and we could conclude them on 24 June. It was a month later, and I think that is actually okay political craftsmanship. On 24 June, we will then grant money to launch the study and, immediately thereafter, we will start to get the grant started. That is why we were not counting until 24 June and what else we should do about important things in order to comply with all the requirements of the EIA. I would like us to be able to do this faster and smarter, but it must be done thoroughly and we need to comply with the law, even when it comes to the EIA directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126160943	Thank you to the Minister and the rapporteur. It's all over now. There is a new question for the Minister of Transport, and that is by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161007	Thank you, Madam President. My question is this: does the Minister believe that the Government is keeping its promise of the date of completion of the long-awaited analysis of a possible fixed link over the Kattegat when the Minister will postpone it indefinitely?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161022	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161024	Thank you very much for the question. I can see that all sorts of things are happening in the press, but I am happy to see that the Left adheres to its electoral manual and uses the concepts they have agreed to use about us, and I am, of course, pleased about that. But I would also like to say that it is certainly not with my good will that we now have to wait further for the analysis in the conciliation circles where it would be appropriate to discuss it. It is true that the analysis of an Kattegat connection was set for reporting before the end of the year, but it has been postponed due to professional challenges with the inland traffic model. Am I making this up? No, these are the advice I have received from the experts in the Road Directorate and in the Danish Road Traffic Authority as well as from DTU Transport experts. It is, of course, crucial that we should be able to vouch professionally for the content that is when we publish an analysis and use it for a political decision. This applies regardless of the type or scope of the project. Therefore, I think it would be at the edge of the person responsible if I were to ignore a professional assessment by the country's leading traffic scientists, an assessment that says that this model is not ready. It would not be worthwhile, says traffic researchers, to use it to calculate the Kattegat connection. I do not think I have any choice but to say that then I must listen to it, because this project is too important. If it succeeds, it will be important, not only for Denmark's everyday life, but for our views on our country and on Denmark's history, and it is too important to slop with. So I would like to stress that it is not my intention in any way to delay any analyses. I would have liked to have provided that analysis now and here, and I must also say that through my system I have sent very strong signals to DTU Transport that this is not satisfactory for me. Nor do I sense that there is satisfaction in the political spectrum in general terms. I can inform you that in mid-December we have received the new calculations, and there, on the basis of recommendations from the boards and DTU Transport experts, I will make a statement about a new date for the reporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161238	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161239	Thank you. Well, when we ask this question, it doesn't have anything to do with the Left election manual that I think the minister came to say, probably by mistake, it has something to do with me thinking that a lot of Danes are interested in this project. This is a visionary project. If it can be done, it will bind Denmark together in a completely new way, but it is also a gigantic project physically, and it is a very expensive project to over 100 billion. kr. That is why we need to be on safe ground, and that is why, as far back as 2009, more than 51⁄2 years ago, we launched this great analysis, so that once and for all we had a qualified basis on which to debate it. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: is this not really a breach of the promise, since, once again, this analysis is postponed, especially in view of the fact that the Minister's party colleague and predecessor in office, Henrik Dam Kristensen, whom I very much appreciate, said in 2012 that there should be a decision in principle on the Kattegat connection during 2012? The reference to it is, moreover, the Social Democrats' own website on which there was an article called Support for the Kattegat Link. But now we are getting a postponement again again, and is it therefore not a breach of promise, because some people have probably expected such an analysis to come, so that we could have a basis on which we qualified to discuss this very great visionary project?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161405	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161406	I do not know what the opposition expects the government to do in this situation. We have a broad settlement, after which we asked DTU Transport to deliver an international traffic model. To put it mildly, it has been a little late. It is evidently complicated to make such a model of international traffic, from which one can calculate among other things. a major project such as the Kattegat connection. So we have used it for some internal things along the way, but about the very big thing the researchers at DTU Transport say to the Ministry of Transport: When we put the Kattegat connection in, it doesn't work. I don't know what to expect from me, but that's not gonna happen. I will not trump the scientists who stand with their professionalism and say: this model must be spent on extra time before it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161455	Here's the questioner, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161456	Thank you. We must, of course, base our decisions on thorough and well-worked decision-making. I think everyone agrees with this, especially when it comes to such large projects. But considering that it has been 51⁄2 years, it is a long time that scientists have had to do so. You have had a very large bag of money at your disposal, which is why I think many people are wondering why it should now be necessary to postpone this over and over again. This is particularly true when we consider the Train Fund DK, which we will also be discussing here today. After all, a decision-making basis for such a project was record-breaking to over 28 billion. kr.; there was no slowness at all, it went very fast. Is it really because it is inconvenient for the government to have that analysis on the table at this time? Is that why it's been postponed? So the scientists have had 51⁄2 years to do this, which is why I think many people are wondering why it should be necessary to postpone it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161550	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161551	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161602	We have an enquirer, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161608	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for some of the answers he has given me. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. In relation to the whole debate on Kattegat, I also think it is important to focus on the Togfonden DK and, above all, the question of what the fact that the Kattegat analysis is now unfortunately delayed will mean in concrete terms in relation to the issue of the Togfonden DK. That is not entirely unimportant, because there is no doubt that if you decide to establish an Kattegat link, as the Minister's party colleagues, both the Minister for Defence and Frank Jensen, spoke very strongly in 2010, it will of course also affect the question of whether to invest so much money, for example. in a bridge over the Vejle Fjord which I know the minister is planning to visit, I think tomorrow night, where it is dark and where you don't see the area as well. But of course it's also a model to do it in the dark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161711	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161712	The question here is one that we will have just afterwards, but I would like to try to answer this. I can quote from DTU Transport: It was and continues to be the assessment of both DTU Transport and the model's professional steering group, so that the local traffic model's professional steering group, and it is traffic researchers we are talking about here, that the model version at the time was sufficiently developed to deliver reliable results of the traffic consequences if the time model is realized. ▪ It is the professional assessment, which stands to read publicly, by DTU Transport. We can have a funny debate about that, that's great, that's great. But we have some experts who have a model and they say that it can be used for something, but not for everything. We have to fine-tune it in order to be able to use it for what we are also asking them to do, and we have to take note of that. Am I tired of it and too bad about it? Yeah. I would like it to be ready more quickly, but when the professionals have this assessment, not only DTU Transport as a unit and as a very, very recognized unit but also the model's professional steering group, it is of course the one that I take note of. I also think I would recommend that this be done by the opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161830	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161831	But in order to dive into what the Minister says, does the Minister not think that it would have been more sensible to see these projects under one, both the discussion about whether to set up a train fund with a train bridge over Vejle Fjord for small 30 billion? kr., and the question of an Kattegat connection? After all, it is no secret that the Social Democrats, at least in parts of the country, not least in East Jutland, have been very enthusiastic supporters of establishing an Kattegat connection. Is the Minister not of the opinion that it might have been more sensible to see it all in a context rather than to divide up the decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161911	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161912	Yes, but then there may be limits to how many points you want to pick up as an opposition party, including when it comes to Denmark's infrastructure. It was the case that the Left party, represented by the two authors, under President Lars Løkke Rasmussen, presented the hour model as the flagship of the Danish infrastructure. And what we are hearing now is that it is irresponsible and stupid for us to try to implement and fund it. It is the flagship presented under the government of the VK, from which the VK government failed to finance it all. We have then financed the rest, and then we shall hear that it is at the edge of the responsible. Frankly, I find this embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161952	Thank you. Here we go again, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126161956	We go a little back in history here, but I can at least confirm that the vision of shorter travel times, which we called the hour model, we were eventually to launch, backed by the Socialists. But what was in it was that we knew that we could do it relatively smoothly between Odense and Copenhagen. We only had to build a new track between Ringsted and Copenhagen for over 10 billion. kr. We are in full swing with that, and money has been set aside for that. But we also knew that it would be incredibly difficult between Odense and Aarhus, because there is the Danish geography, i.e. hills and valleys and fjords. And that is precisely why we initiated a strategic analysis of this, which was to form the basis for a decision. This is the one the government has chosen to short-circuit and set in motion here, where the hour model for the rest of us was set in goose eyes. Finally, I would like to ask quite briefly: can the Minister reveal when we can expect an Kattegat analysis on the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162049	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162050	That flagship was a little shot up, I think, but okay. That is something to be answered by the Left Party itself. As I also said in my initial reply, the Kattegat calculation in the national traffic model will be presented to Parliament's parties when I have received the green light from DTU Transport and when they are satisfied on the professional basis. Note that it was the VK government itself who also sat and negotiated with myself and said: Who can make such a model for us completely impartially, without political interference? DTU Transport can do that. Shouldn't we be so fair to each other and to them and to the scientists we have in the country in this area, to let them work on it? And then we can freak out at home that they're taking a long time. Yes, but it must be thorough enough, because it is so important and large investments that we must be absolutely sure that it is also on the best possible basis when we sit and make decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162150	The question is closed. There is a new question from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162159	The question is this: does the Minister think that it is justifiable for the government to spend 28.5 billion? kr. at the Train Fund DK, when it was already well known before the adoption of the law that by 2020 alone there will be a shortage of 3.7 billion. If the price of oil ends up following current market expectations?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162220	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162221	Yeah, the government thinks it's safe to spend up to 28.5 billion. kr. We are talking about absolutely much-needed modernisation of the railways here. I can see that a very, very broad majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, unfortunately without the Left, also agrees with those views and with that project. In September 2013, the government reached a broad political agreement that the additional proceeds from the harmonisation of tax revenue from North Sea oil should be devoted to modernising public transport for the maximum benefit to the Danes. And in January 2014 a development agreement was made ~ It was just before I myself joined as Minister ~ with SF, Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten together with the government parties to initially allocate 23.5 billion. kr. for massive improvements: investment in new rails, faster train connections. This means that you can realize the time model, the time schedule. We're gonna go through with it. We can build a new runway for Billund Airport. Who really got the idea, I don't know. In fact, I think it might even be the Danish People's Party. But it's good for Denmark. We can provide shorter travel times for long, by far most regional routes and increased opportunities for rail freight transport. So it's good for the whole country. It was also agreed that the funds should not be used at once. Please note that 23.5 billion. kr. That's what the plan is for. It was agreed that in 2024 a check-up should be made. That is a very good precautionary principle. In addition, the conciliation circle is constantly given the opportunity to decide on the use of funds returned to the Train Fund DK. It has been agreed that any differences between the realised and the assumed additional revenue for the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with medium-term fiscal objectives. So it is no different than that the state's budgets are always based on some assumptions about future tax revenues. I think that is a principle that all governments usually follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162434	Thank you, and it is the rapporteur again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162435	Thank you. It is undoubtedly a new interpretation of the government's precautionary principle that you go out and dispose of over 28 billion. kr. that hasn't even gotten into the Treasury yet. It is assumed that they will enter the Treasury towards 2042 but what is the problem is that, as we have asked for an average oil price of USD 134 per annum, it is clear from the calculations made by the Ministry of Taxation. barrel. Anyone who follows prices when refueling his car knows that fuel prices are falling dramatically at the moment, and the price of oil on the world market is down below $85 per annum. barrel. That leaves a gigantic gap in funding, you might say. That is why we need to be clear about how the government is going to deal with this. In other words, there may be a gigantic gap in funding, and there is a great deal of work to be done in detail. a new railway bridge at Vejle Fjord, etc. But what if the money stays at the bottom of the North Sea because oil prices are falling dramatically at the moment? There are even forecasts that are talking about as much as $65 per annum. barrel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162544	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162547	I remember that right in the days following the launch of the Train Foundation DK as a proposal, I stood at the Central Station with another Leftman, Martin Geertsen. He was shouting about the Left had even printed pamphlets that this cost jobs and that it scares investors away from Denmark. All I could say was, let's see if things are going so wrong. Let's see if it goes so wrong that the foreign investors who pull up our oil will not be ready to make it the same tax as A.P. Møller Mærsk is paying to pull up our oil. Let's see if things go wrong. And now we have seen that it has not gone as wrong as it has been from the Left's scaremongering campaign around the Togfonden DK, because there are record numbers who have offered to pull up our oil. Let's see if this scaremonger doesn't fall to the ground too. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162631	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162633	Well, the Left doesn't want to do scaremongering about this. We just like the principle that the money is in the box before you use it. It is also a good principle for one's personal economy. That is why the government has to deal with the dramatic fall in oil prices. This is certainly something that we will follow closely into, because it is disastrous if it turns out that a big hole is emerging. And the hole is already 3-4 billion. kr., the tax minister calculated. It could be a lot bigger than that. After all, it is a disaster for all sorts of other needy projects and long-awaited projects if you are going to fill such a gap over the next 10-15 years. So we are going to follow this closely, and I would like to ask whether it does not give rise at all to any shaking of the hands of the government that such a hole has arisen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162718	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162719	Perhaps I should just point out here that the funds allocated to the Train Fund DK amount to 23.5 billion. kr. of a total of 28.5 billion. kr. That alone is logical. We are talking about something long in the future. I think it is sensible to make infrastructure investments well in the future. You can compare it to the Great Belt Bridge. Could you know exactly what would happen in economic terms? No, you couldn't. But you put the best heads to figure it out, and it turned out to be a really good decision for Denmark. I am quite sure that the Train Fund DK will also be. It realizes the hour model, which the previous government called a flagship, but which is now evidently, I understand, opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162808	Thank you. The one about attacking in the last round, where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen cannot be allowed to answer is not a fair trick. I know very well that I think what the Minister of Transport is concerned with when it comes to the Left and our attitude to the hour model, so I am not going to refresh it here. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the oil prices and the way they develop do not shake hands at all. I have to understand the Minister in that what we are saying about it is a scaremongering that the way oil prices are developing is a scaremongering campaign. One might accuse the Left too much, but it is not natural to think that the Left is behind the dramatic fall in oil prices around the world. Is it a scaremongering which the Left is now leading to say that the funding for the Train Fund DK is not linked, or what? Is that how you should understand the Minister's answer to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126162859	I could see that the campaign, the Left a year ago, drove towards the Togfonden DK, with leaflets, advertisements and other things, in which it was said that investors would escape from Denmark, you would only see the soles of people, because they wanted to escape, flee, escape, have turned out to have fallen completely to the ground. Clearly we can see that it was a scaremongering campaign, because it turns out that there have been record bids from foreign investors to pull up our oil, even if they know about the tax base that has now been introduced and which is the same as that, A.P. Møller has been taxed on the basis of. I do not think this is unfair; in fact, I think it is fair and sensible, and I also think that reality has now shown that it was a scaremongering that was at a shattered level. I am not going to get the Left to acknowledge that now, but we can only see that this scaremongering really happened. Then the question arises as to how much money there will then be in that box, and I can say there: yes, it is a project of 28.5 billion. kr., but we've only booked an amount of 23.5 billion. kr. Why have we done this? We have this because we are talking about something that has to happen so long into the future. It is clear that we are going to do some inspections along the way to find out how oil revenue will distribute, just as everything else is being done here in our society, which is based on taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163013	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163015	I have to say that I do not really think that the Minister answers what is being asked about. One thing is that the 28.5 billion has not been realized. kr. This is not at all linked to the issue of the challenge we face when oil prices are falling dramatically, which of course also affects the revenue that comes in. After all, I think the Minister is aware of that. Then there are also a large number of uncertainties in relation to the Train Fund DK. Among other things: tomorrow the Minister will look at projects for the upcoming bridge over Vejle Fjord; a railway bridge which will most probably and with great certainty be far, far more expensive than what it is set up and which will have very dramatic consequences for the people living in the area. This is, of course, just one of the challenges we face, namely that we want to do a great deal, but that the money is not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163108	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163110	I am sorry that one is obviously not satisfied with that answer. The question is whether, in good Danish, there is now also the money in the box, whether we are now sure that all that money will come in. And there's my answer: it's the best offer there is. But to be sure that we are standing on solid ground here, we haven't spent all the money we haven't spent 28.5 billion. kr.; we're down to 23.5 billion. kr. Why? That is logical: it is because we want to be absolutely sure that the money comes in before we spend it. Therefore, in the parties behind the Togfonden DK we have agreed to meet along the way to follow up on how things are going with these revenues. But it is not the case that we have spent all that money, and that is absolutely central and a clear answer to the question that was asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163158	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163203	Thank you. We're not getting much closer today, I hear. I just have to say that a black hole is emerging and, unfortunately, it is getting bigger and bigger because oil prices continue to fall, and just until 2020 it will be 3.7 billion. kr. Then one can only speculate on how big it will be up to 2042 which is the total funding period. But I would also like to ask another question about the Train Fund DK. It is with regard to these trains that are going to run on the fine, new rails, it has to be very fast trains, up to 250 km/h., and there is not a penny of them in the Togfonden DK, although it is many billions we are talking about. How are the trains to be financed, even in the light of DSB's financial situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163247	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163252	I have 29 seconds to answer the whole new question. The short answer is surely that we are planning to have a growth in public transport passenger numbers of between 20 and 25 per cent. What's it gonna pay? Well, that gives some more who benefit from coming forward quickly. It also gives some more ticket revenue. There is no provision for the Treasury to spend money on trains. No, it is assumed that they must be purchased through the additional ticket revenue that comes in. So we are talking about a 10-year period, only the first period, of 20-25 per cent growth. More passengers. It says something about the potential that is, and it says something about the fact that I have to praise Lars Løkke Rasmussen very rarely for calling the train timetable a flagship in public traffic, but how sad it is that his fellow party members are now running away from it, completely desperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163348	Thank you. And there's one last question. It's from sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, and it's again for the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163357	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163359	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister consider that it was sensible to use the national traffic model as a basis for the Government's Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163406	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163408	Thank you. This is a question that we also raised during the debate, but let us at last take it back. I would like to refer to the Danish Road Traffic Authority and Banedanmark's analysis of the Danish Railway Fund. On page 40, it appears that DTU Transport considers that the results of the national traffic model are valid for an assessment of the hour model. And this continues to be the assessment from DTU Transport, as shown in their website yesterday I quote from the news text: It was and continues to be the assessment by both DTU Transport and the model's professional management group that the model version at that time was sufficiently developed to deliver reliable results from the traffic consequences if the time model is realized. It was therefore the then assessment and remains the current assessment, as recently as yesterday, from the leading researchers in transport in Denmark, that the inland traffic model could be used for calculations of the Togfonden DK. You can keep asking me, and that is what you are doing here, but you will not succeed in making me fail to overrule the country's leading traffic scientists, the traffic scientists whom this government and the previous government have entrusted with the task of initiating, maintaining and further developing this model of international traffic. I do not think that there is anything more to be done when they clearly give the assessment, the factual assessment. Then I certainly do not think it is up to me to say: No, you are probably wrong, you traffic researchers who are recognised, not only in Denmark, but actually throughout the world, for a product of very, very high quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163605	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163606	But it would also be far from me to have to politicize about it. Now it is part of being a member of parliament that I think the Minister may remember, from when the Minister himself was a member of parliament he is still away, but from when he was an opposition politician to ask many good questions, which certainly came from Mr. Magnus Heunicke, if he himself remembers back to the many questions he asked. And that's why it's actually very sensible for us to discuss this. After all, the minister does not have to be upset or unhappy that you are interested in this. It does not suit the Minister, because it is quite reasonable that we should discuss this here. It is, of course, investments of two- and three-digit billions, which is why it is quite natural that the Danish Parliament should be interested in how these investments are put forward. And there comes the minister with the answer: that is, when we were going to make the Train Fund DK, we could base ourselves on some not completely completed calculations in relation to the national traffic model, but not exactly in relation to the Kattegat connection, which is a difficult thing for us, because there we have promised a lot of things there we have promised that it would be finished, we have promised to have to take a decision in principle in 2010. And we all know that an Kattegat connection will have an extremely strong impact on the time model and will also make some of the investments planned in the hour model, including the Togfonden DK, totally superfluous, including investment in a Vejlefjord bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163725	I am standing here looking at a press release from DTU Transport which they sent out on the basis of the press coverage that has been of their decision to postpone. And it says directly: the inland traffic model can count on the consequences of the Train Fund. However, their assessment is also that it is not ready for the Kattegat results. That message from DTU Transport I had to pass on to the Parliament's Transport Committee, and I hardly see what else to do. Then I'll tell them, "Just do it anyway, even if it's a piece of work." Drop your professional pride, drop your expert knowledge, drop your research habitus. That would be at odds with everything, and I do not know the Left Party as a party that thinks it should do so in this matter either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163825	Thank you. And now we're down to these 30 seconds to answer questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163830	But let me ask a trivial question. Can the Minister confirm that the establishment of an Kattegat link would dramatically exceed the number of passengers in relation to the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163845	No, it has actually been examined, and the conclusion, as I recall here, is that the Train Fund DK is not contrary to an Kattegat connection. If it were, it would probably not have been the case that the Left Party had launched it as its own proposal back when you were in government yourself. On the contrary, the Danish Railway Fund and the Kattegat connection are some that will play extremely well together in terms of traffic. And it will probably take more time if we are to go deeper into the interaction between the two in terms of traffic, but there will be an opportunity to make real use of it extra well. But it would also be expensive, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163927	Thank you. And then again, there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126163931	Thank you. It was now a very surprising conclusion that the Minister drew on the link between the Kattegat link and the hourly model. I can then help the Minister, because the Minister himself has given us an answer to that earlier. Here I have a graph showing how many passengers today drive by train over Storebælt. It also shows how many people will travel over Storebælt if you build the Kattegat connection and how many will travel over Kattegat. It is clear that if you build the Kattegat connection, there will be fewer passengers between Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen than there are today. These are strong matters, and I believe that many people will be very interested in them. It is therefore a link which the Minister himself has calculated, and it is also calculated on the basis of the provisional application of the national traffic model. Is this something that the government is not interested in coming to light? It is clear from this that if you build a fixed Kattegat connection, you will have little effect on the many billions of kroner spent on the Danish Railway Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164033	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164035	I do not really know whether it should be launched as a huge news that if it succeeds and I think it would be fantastic for Denmark to have an Kattegat connection, and it is an expensive project, so we have to be absolutely sure that it can be done financially, yes, then I have replied to the Danish Parliament that it will in all likelihood happen that it will take some traffic from the Storebælt Bridge. I don't think we can swing up to the fact that it has to be the huge shock-revealing. It is absolutely true that between Østjylland, the Aarhus area, and Copenhagen you will probably not go down over Funen and over Storebælt; there you will probably take over Kattegat. That's the whole point of it. So I guess it almost says that's what's gonna happen. The question is, and that is what scientists are now examining in the national model, how many will do so. Is it worth the price? Where's the pain threshold? If it's free, a lot of people will do it, but then we'll have to get the money in another way. It is a big and expensive project and visionary and if it could be done, it would be good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164139	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164140	I don't think you need any more scientific analysis. If you have an Kattegat bridge where you can drive by train across in a good hour's time directly to Copenhagen, you would prefer it to take the detour via Odense and Storebælt. That's exactly what this analysis shows. Therefore, I think it is a little fresh when the government concludes: Well the Train Fund DK doesn't matter for the Kattegat connection. No, but the Kattegat connection means something to the Danish Railway Fund. Because if you build the Kattegat link, for which many prominent Social Democrats have strongly argued, yes, it will mean that you will not get anything out of the many billions you invest in the Togfonden DK, because there will simply be fewer passengers than today between Aarhus and Odense. I think that is very interesting for the Danes. It may not be a revelation, but it is an interesting context. I have a theory that the government does not really like it coming forward and that this could be why the analysis of the Kattegat connection has been postponed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164238	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164240	Well, I can totally reject that theory. So, if we were to try to cover up the fact that an Kattegat connection would mean that people from Aarhus going to Copenhagen do not go down through Jutland and over Funen etc., I think we would have a pretty bad strategy, a pretty bad case. I think most people would find out. That would probably be the traffic pattern that would come. That is what we are now looking at: how many will then do it? Can it be done financially? That is the work that I have to wait for, unfortunately, and I must put up with the impatience of these gentlemen. I think there are many others who are impatient too. So it's my lot to measure it when the scientists have to figure out these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164327	Thank you. And then again, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen to finish the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164331	Thank you. I do not think we are necessarily getting closer today, but I would like to sign for the Minister's frankness in saying that, if it were to be established, there would be no link at all between the Train Fund DK and a future Kattegat link. The Social Democratic Party has promised the Danish people that much else has not happened, but that is not the discussion we have today. A future Kattegat connection does not affect the Danish Railway Fund at all, despite the fact that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has just then argued and proved that the Minister has, in this way, informed the Folketing itself. I do not understand why the Minister does not just say openly: if there is an Kattegat connection, we have a problem with the amount of money we potentially want to invest in the Train Fund DK, because then the investment does not give the real value that we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164412	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164416	Yes, the Train Fund DK and Kattegat connection: Train Fund DK we have now found money for. Yeah, it was launched under the VK government, but we found money for it. It will be good for the whole of Denmark • both the large cities, medium-sized cities and the smaller cities. It will be very good for the whole of Denmark. If we succeed in getting an Kattegat connection, it will only give us even more opportunities. I have seen plans, and we are talking about some traffic geek now, I know that, but I have seen very, very interesting plans for how the two projects can play together. And I am quite sure that the Left's transport politicians have also been involved in seminars and other activities. The two projects will really be of huge value to public transport. We have financed one project and we are examining whether the other can be financed. So we have to wait until the scientists are ready to say: now we have this model. Then we can also make a political decision as to whether this is something we can go ahead with. I would like the answer to be yes, but I will leave it to the researchers to assess when the basis is technically in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164521	Thank you. The question is closed and the Wednesday Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141126164525	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 27 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
