ParlaMint-DK_20141021130009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 10 (Proposal for a resolution on the ban on masking and covering clothing in public spaces). Higher! ) Well, I can speak louder, but perhaps it was on the benches that one should speak lower. Can you hear me now? Yes! ) It helped? Good. Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an experimental system with body camera for police officers). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 12 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the dissolution of the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus). Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 13 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the policy on asylum and aliens). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Request no. F 5 (What can the Foreign Minister say about the provisional status of the fight against ISIL, including Turkey's relationship with ISIL, the presumption of a possible Turkish prisoner exchange with ISIL and the specific case of the Danish citizen suspected of attempted assassination, as well as Denmark's relationship with Turkey, and support for progressive forces fighting against ISIL and for democracy, equality and diversity?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130119	Søren Espersen (DF), Jep Mikkelsen (RV), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL) and Thyra Frank (LA) have applied for leave from 22 October 2014 due to temporary deployment in public office. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130219	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party in Copenhagen's Grand District, Yildiz Akdogan, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 21 October 2014, when Karen Hækkerup resigns his mandate. I have also received the recommendation that the following be approved as temporary members of the Danish Parliament from 22 October 2014 onwards: First deputy for the Danish People's Party in Copenhagen's Omregns Storkreds, Kenneth Kristensen Berth, on the occasion of Søren Espersen's leave; 1st deputy for the Radical Left in East Jutland's Storkreds, Mie Bergmann, on the occasion of Jep Mikkelsen's leave; 1st deputy for the Socialist People's Party in Fyn's Storkreds, Karsten Hønge, on the occasion of Annette Vilhelmsen's leave; 1st deputy for the Enhedslisten in South Jutland's Storkreds district, Sarah Nørris, on the occasion of Henning Hyllested's leave; and 1st deputy for the Liberal Alliance in North Jutland's Storkreds, Peter Laigaard, on the occasion of Thyra Frank's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130337	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. In favour of 108 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0 abstentions 0. The Committee's recommendation was unanimously adopted by 108 votes in total.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130416	The debate is open. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left, go ahead. Then you should either leave the hall and keep quiet or sit down and keep quiet or do both.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130445	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that there is interest in the consideration of this bill, the proposal for a law amending the Act on active social policy, and that it attracts so many spectators and already gives rise to so loud comments from the honourable Members of the House and a special welcome to the new Minister for Employment; I look forward on behalf of the Left to cooperation. The bill is intended to ensure that persons who receive a social benefit in return after having won a case before the Ankestyrelsen about the right to, for example: cash sickness benefit does not subsequently lose their education or cash benefits because of the current wealth and deduction rules of the cash benefits legislation. It must be said, moreover, that I am here today on behalf of the good man. Hans Andersen, so you have to imagine that it is the usual spearhead of the Left on labour market policy that stands up here. The proposal contains a number of issues such as a change in the rules on property and deductions in the legislation on cash benefits. Persons who have not received the correct benefit and who may therefore have incurred debt must be given the opportunity, for example: to use the post-payment to repay the debt; the post-payment shall be disregarded for two years after payment. An overall economic consequence of the proposal is estimated to represent an additional public expenditure of around 8 million. kr. A year ago it was money that we in the Left are, of course, ready to spend on correcting this injustice. We understand the problem and we support the bill with the proposed changes to the cash benefits legislation. We support the fact that, in future, the municipalities will disregard post-payment of public services in the calculation of revenue. It is also important for me to say that...
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130614	Wait a minute. There is still a great deal of unrest in the Chamber, even though there are not so many Members present now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130625	In view of this strong rebuke by the President, I shall continue with the speech; thank you for that. I was about to explain the very exciting part of the cash assistance system, which is, of course, the bottom safety net for the citizens of Denmark who either have no job or who are facing social problems. There I think it is a question of both morality and fairness when you go in and make the proposed change, and we would like to help the government with that. We must therefore recommend the bill. The last thing I want to say is that it should not be seen as a criticism, but perhaps rather as a call to the newly elected minister, is that it is sad that in relatively many cases the municipalities actually make a wrong decision, which has some unintended consequences for the citizens who lose their services. I also imagine that there are a number of dark figures in this area, since it is often the slightly weaker citizens who experience being affected both by illness and by being entangled in the public system of complaints. Perhaps the Minister could therefore be asked to look at whether the scale of the problem is reasonably documented and what we can do in the future to prevent the municipalities from making an incorrect decision time and time again. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130735	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, Social Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021130746	In the spring we read about Pia Laursen from Vejle, who was on cash benefits. She had won a complaint against the municipality of Vejle and had paid her sickness benefit. This should prove to be an expensive pleasure, for it meant that the municipality could set off the afterpayment in Pia Laursen's cash assistance for 3 1⁄2 months. According to the newspaper, it cost Pia Laursen DKK 39,000 that Vejle Municipality had made a wrong decision, and for Vejle Municipality it cost nothing. As the rules are today, a cash benefit recipient is set off in his cash benefits if he or she has received a benefit on the basis of the fact that he or she has just won a complaint against the public authorities. It's not okay. It is the view of the Social Democrats that it should not be a burden on a cash aid recipient because, for example, there has been a mistake in the municipality's proceedings, nor should it be free for the municipality to make mistakes or make a wrong decision. For this reason, it is gratifying that we are today dealing with L 13. With L 13, we will implement an agreement on a change in the assets and deductions rules of the cash benefits legislation for the post-payment of social benefits concluded by the Government and Enhedslisten and SF on 8 May of this year. The bill does not mean that persons receiving a social benefit are subsequently losing their education or cash benefits because of the wealth or deduction rules of the cash benefits legislation. The proposal will also have an impact on a person who has not received the correct benefit and who may therefore have incurred debt. The bill will enable the person concerned to use his post-payment to repay the debt. Similarly, the draft law will have an impact on those receiving a resource take-up benefit, where the rules on deduction of income in cash and training assistance apply equally. Overall, the draft law means that in future, people receiving cash or educational assistance will not be penalised financially for the public making mistakes in the case-file, and that makes very good sense to us Social Democrats. Errors in public procedures should not be put at the disadvantage of the citizen, and therefore cash benefits recipients should not be set off against cash benefits if they are paid back a benefit based on the fact that they have won a complaint in the public sector. With L 13, we ensure that the situation that Pia Laursen and many others have faced, because there were errors in the handling of their case, does not happen again. That is both common sense and quite fair. So the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131036	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131044	Thank you, President. We in the Danish People's Party think the proposal here is right and fair. It is not fair that, if you complain about a decision and win the case, you should be set off against the money paid out in cash benefits and training aid. And just as it has been put forward by both the Left and the Social Democratic Party, we also find in the Danish People's Party that it is totally unfair that even if one wins a case in the municipality for a decision where one has actually lost one's benefit, it is all set against. Because if you had continued on that benefit, you would have received a higher benefit than cash benefits, and then it is not reasonable that everything should be set off. The difference, that is, what you really should have had more, is right and proper. So in the Danish People's Party we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131148	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131153	Thank you. This bill, L 13, is not a major labour market reform. This proposal will not steal all the attention in the media, but nevertheless it is a very important proposal and a very important move for the individual unemployed and for the individual citizen at all. Because it is about legal certainty; it is about what is right and right. Now I do not want to go into many of the things that my fellow Members have already said, but the crucial thing is that if you win a trial against, for example. A municipality or an authority should not be punished for it. It's absolutely essential. As a radical, I fight for legal certainty for a large number of actors, groups and citizens in the Danish society • and also companies. And it is very important that legal certainty also applies to beneficiaries and unemployed people who win a trial and who subsequently experience being pulled against the money they have. I do not think that is fair, and that is why it is a question of fairness and fairness. It is about legal certainty for the individual and, of course, it is also about the economy for the individual, and that is why we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131320	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131328	From the SF we will also welcome the new Minister for Employment and we look forward to the cooperation. The bill here corrects a great injustice and absurdity, which the SF and I personally have criticised strongly on several occasions. An example of the rules so far is: A citizen has his or her sickness benefit stopped by the municipality for a period of time, she complains to the Ankestyrelsen and wins the case over the municipality. But at the time of the payment she has come on cash benefits, and then the municipality says: The payment of your sickness benefit means that now you have a fortune, and then we stop paying your cash benefits until you have eaten up most of the afterpayment. A cash aid recipient can only have 10,000 kroner. at the bank. This meant, according to the rules hitherto, that the citizen was given a double sentence. First of all, it was wrong for the person concerned to lose his sickness benefit; then the citizen did not benefit at all from the amount to which he was entitled and paid in return, for now the municipality withdrew from the cash benefits. It is simply dragging people and in many cases very sick people around in the mess. The system was completely running around with the individual in a Kafka's way. The individual citizen was simply deprived and powerless, while the municipality could actually make money by making a mistake through a saving. All in all, it has been a hundred percent unfair and totally untenable situation, and therefore it is good that it is now being corrected through the agreement reached by the SF, Enhedslisten and the government, as mentioned earlier, at the beginning of May. Repayment of public benefits will in future not be considered as assets leading to a deduction in cash benefits within two years of the payment of the post. Finally, I would like to stress that this rule actually came into force on 1 June of this year through an act in the Committee on Finance, but now it is being followed by a legislative amendment which the SF supports very warmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131542	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131550	I should also like to congratulate the new Minister. I would also add, however, that this has not led to the replacement of the Enhedslisten's labour market rapporteur. I'm only here as a humble substitute in this case for Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, but that doesn't change the fact that I am quite happy to be rapporteur on this bill. This is, of course, a good and fair bill, as several speakers have said. The only thing we can wonder about is that it took so long for this quite obvious and obviously fair and reasonable bill to be put forward. It is a state that has existed for years, but let it be. This proposal results in an agreement made by the government, SF and Enhedslisten in May 2014 that there should be no set-off of the after-payment that the citizen receives when he or she has won a case. As several people have pointed out from up here, that is quite obvious. This proposal meets the intentions of the agreement, as can be seen from the motion for a resolution, B 92, which we tabled in April 2014, and which we drew in favour of this agreement. It was, as has been said, until 1 June of this year that many citizens really did not get anything out of winning an appeal. They were compensated for their absence from sickness benefit or other social security benefits, but if they were subsequently to receive cash benefits, the entire post-payment was offset in cash benefits because repayment was considered to be either property or income which had to be fully offset against cash benefits. That is to say, the municipality that had made the mistake was rewarded and the citizen affected by the wrong treatment was punished. Now this obvious injustice is being remedied, and we will have legal certainty restored to citizens who are successful in their complaints. I think that many thanks should be paid to the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish Disability Organizations and the Social Legal Service, which has worked very hard to change the law. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the former Minister for Employment so that the change could enter into force on 1 June of this year. However, we still feel that there are elements in this bill that could be better done. We shall come back to this in the course of the committee's work. But there is no doubt that this is a very good legislative proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131758	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next one is sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131812	Thank you. Although I am also a substitute here today and can welcome the new minister, I am not going to destroy the good atmosphere which this proposal apparently imposes, and this would suggest that a united Parliament could point out that it is quite reasonable to correct these absurdities, which were, of course, that there were citizens who could find themselves in a situation where it could not be said that this was particularly appropriate in relation to our being in a community governed by the rule of law. But that has now been corrected. I shall not prolong the debate or repeat the arguments for what has been put forward here, but only say that it means and leads to the Liberal Alliance being able to support the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131858	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131909	Thank you, President. And it's a unanimous parliament that's going to back this bill. Because sometimes we may wonder about the system when these cases pop up, and we find it quite problematic, like the other parties, that you can be paid out, such as sickness benefit, when you have won a case at the Ankestyrelsen or the municipality has changed your decision. When the municipality makes mistakes, it shouldn't be the citizen who pays for this mistake. When we put people first, we can also support this bill. Finally, I would just like to warmly welcome the new Minister for Employment and I look forward to the cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131945	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021131954	Thank you. May I first take this opportunity to thank you for your welcome. I can say that I am very much looking forward to working with the committee and the rapporteurs in this area. I think that this is an important area which I look forward to taking up, and I shall do my best to ensure that the cooperation which, after all, is so important in the Folketing should also continue to apply to employment. So I'm gonna take the kind wishes ahead of me at work. I think that the rapporteurs have outlined very well what this bill is really about, so I shall not repeat that. I should just like to say that I am very pleased that the first legislative proposal I have as a new minister in this area is a legislative proposal which helps to increase legal certainty for the individual citizen. I guess it can't be much better, I almost said. I think, as the rapporteurs have also said, that with this proposal we have found the balance that is important, especially for the individual citizen, who must be at the centre. So I would just like to thank you here for the first reading and say to the committee that, of course, I will do what I can to ensure that any questions and debates in the committee are answered by the Ministry as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132117	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132133	The debate is open. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132148	Thank you. Once again, my honourable colleagues will have to settle for me instead of Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, but I hope that I can explain the position of the Left in a sensible and understandable way. As far as I read it, it is about the fact that the European Court of Justice has been at stake again and with its activitic policy forced us here in Denmark and in the Folketing to correct the holiday legislation, and it is not really unsympathetic, it is actually quite sympathetic, as the bill is about ensuring that people in illness can have the right to earn a minimum of four weeks' holiday. The Implementation Committee of the Ministry of Employment and the social partners discussed the proposals, including: to limit employers' additional costs, which amount to some 30 million. kr. a year and at the same time find a solution in accordance with Article 7 of the labour market directive. 1. The proposal envisages that employers' payments for Holiday Money Information can be made through a common collection managed by the ATP. The economic consequences of the bill, however with considerable uncertainty, are 30 million. kr. a year. And this is estimated to result in less cost of holiday allowance of approx. 5 million kr. annual for the public sector. With these comments, I should like to say that the Left can support the bill, so that we bring the holiday law into line with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132317	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132325	Thank you. As my colleague Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt has already explained, after all, this is about ensuring that everyone is entitled to a holiday. Although people are employed in a position where they do not earn holiday money during illness, they must nevertheless have the opportunity to take at least four weeks' paid holiday. As has also been said, this is a consequence of an EU judgment. It can be said that what the European Union said was that we should ensure our employees better. We agree with that, of course, and that is why we have no problem with the fact that it has been cut and we have found a good model for it. It is also important to say that it is still the case that if the social partners, who here in Denmark are responsible for the important negotiations in this area, agree to derogate from this, then, of course, in a collective bargaining procedure, an agreement can be reached to make employees even better. So, on the basis of what is, therefore, about making employees even better, the Socialists naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132424	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132431	Thank you, President. I have to make something right, because the previous bill did not just welcome me to the new minister. This is then the fourth Minister for Employment during the period I have served as rapporteur for employment. This may say more about me, because I am the only one left in the committee who has been dealing with employment since 2001. Then you can always discuss how good it is. But you have experience. The Minister has also, for it is an old, well-known minister from other areas. But welcome. This bill is about earning a holiday for people who are sick, and we find that actually in the Danish People's Party is right and fair. We have also introduced the right of cash benefits recipients to take a holiday without having to be available; where they could afford to relax without having to be in contact with the municipality. And for those who are sick, it is also right and proper that they have a period where they can say: Here we take a holiday, here we can devote ourselves to the family. That is also right and proper. It then has the consequences that there is little expenditure for employers • 30 million. kr. per year distributed among all private employers. I do not think that is such a large amount for each employer when it comes down to it and they get some satisfied employees who can then be ready to come back. You may also recuperate during your vacation; it may help to give you a little strength. In the Danish People's Party we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132608	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132615	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new Minister for Employment. This is quite natural for me as a radical veteran in labour market policy. We usually have other rooms to do it in when it's within the government, but now it's done. The proposal, L 14, which is about ensuring that employees who are not entitled to full pay during illness earn sickness benefit from the second day of illness have full radical support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132653	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132704	As has been said, this proposal improves the rights of a sick employee when he or she is not entitled to full pay during illness and, as has also been mentioned, it is a judgment of the European Court of Justice which enforces this improvement. I would like to dwell on this because I think it is thought-provoking. After all, the EU system is in some respects a problematic system. We can only think of the major problems that it presents us with in terms of social dumping, but we must also note that the EU system in some respects leads to something good, and here we have an example of an improvement that would not have been achieved in Denmark if the European Union had not been there. That is why I would like to start by thanking the European Union for its help. The FTF, the Joint Council of Employees and Officials, criticises the fact that it is only a minimum implementation of the four-week holidays contained in the Working Time Directive of the European Union, and their criticism is due to the fact that the Danish Act on Holidays gives entitlement to five weeks' paid holidays. That is why the FTF believes that it is misleading that sick people should settle for four weeks' paid holiday, and I think they are right about that. So here we are talking about sick people who are not entitled to full pay during illness. The FTF, the Joint Council of officials and officials, proposes a working group to examine errors and shortcomings in the holiday law in general rather than the patchwork approach currently used. I can only say that I also think it would be a good idea to set up such a working group. The main organization, the LO, points out that on this occasion other imbalances in the case law that have arisen should also be corrected. For example: there are many employers who, at the time of their employment, have already entered into agreements with the employee that, in the event that they have to be fired, abbreviated or cancelled, in order to take leave during the period of notice. This means, therefore, that the holiday law is to be waived to the disadvantage of the employee. The LO points out that in this way it is not a voluntary agreement, but in reality it is a dictation by the employer, in a situation where the employee cannot say no because it becomes a condition for recruitment. It is also a criticism in which I think the LO is right, and I think that this aspect should also be looked at. But back to the draft law before us: these critical points, which the FTF and the LO point out, I think they are right, but that does not concern the fact that this bill is a step forward, and that is why the SF will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021132957	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. No, that's where I almost jumped sir. Per Clausen over. Here you go, sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133006	Well, I'm only filling in, but now that Finn Sørensen has been working to equip me with some speeches, I'd better have them held. Or I'll probably get into trouble with him. I would like to start by saying that the purpose of this proposal is, of course, to bring the Danish holiday law into line with EU law. Many things can be said about this, but it is fortunate that, overall, the proposal contains an improvement in the current rules on sickness benefit. It is a question of the withdrawal of a number of conditions for entitlement to sick leave: it is the condition that sick leave must last more than 3 days, that the employee has been employed for at least 12 consecutive months prior to sick leave and that a maximum of 4 months holiday allowance can be paid within one calendar year. So when you remove those things, there are clearly improvements. A new provision is then introduced to ensure that the employee earns sickness benefit only from the second day of absence, and this is then a minor deterioration which, however, does not in any way shy away from an overall improvement. What you are doing here is meeting the minimum requirements of the European Union, so there is certainly no over-implementation of EU rules here, you might say. Perhaps there might be good reason to do so. We agree with the SF that we should follow the part of the Danish holiday law which actually talks about guaranteeing the right to five weeks' paid holiday and that employees should be entitled to sickness benefit from the first sick leave day. We have no comment on the fact that employers' contributions to the administration of the Holiday Account should be included in the joint levying of employers' contributions by ATP. We are in favour of the draft law, but will ask some clear questions in particular to clarify whether there should be groups of employees who are experiencing a deterioration in their conditions. So in view of the fact that this is an overall improvement, we have a clear expectation that we will be able to vote in favour of the legislative proposal at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133205	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133214	This bill is about earning holiday money during illness, and it is quite reasonable that this is the case. We can quite easily support that. It has only one side, namely that it then also increases the cost to the employer side. Regardless of the fact that it is quite modest from this point of view, we may need to say that, in such a way, we never need to increase the costs of business, as we do here. Regardless of the fact that it is in the petty section, I suppose no one in this Chamber knows the old saying that many cymbals give a stream at the end. We must be aware of this. Every time you increase costs, we weaken competitiveness and so on, so no matter how innocent a single bill may look, I just think it is worth pointing out. In other words, we are putting together disadvantages and advantages, and it ends up that, despite what I have said here, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133323	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133341	After all, this bill corrects the fact that Denmark's holiday legislation is not compatible with EU law. But if you can hear from my tone of voice that I am not so enthusiastic about the bill, it is because we are happiest when it is the social partners who agree on the Danish conditions and on the Danish model. Then, of course, we are also concerned about the extra cost of 30 million. We have also understood that it is the mildest model that has been chosen, i.e. a minimum implementation, so that it can be aligned with EU law, and that is why we can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133425	Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, and I must spare the matter of reviewing the content. I think the rapporteurs have done quite well. It was sir. Per Clausen, who actually put it very aptly by saying that this overall is an improvement for employees, and that is what it is. This is quite clear from what the rapporteurs, who have been up here on the platform, have said. There have then been some desires to go further in some places etc. and so on, and this is a debate that can always be taken. But when I hear what is said about the legislative proposal itself that lies here at the reading of the Things, I think everyone agrees that the way we deal with this problem is right and fair. In addition, the European Union has helped on the way, which has also been consulted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133513	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133534	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133555	Thank you. The bill has two objectives. The first is to ensure that labour law is given the power to deal with matters relating to compliance with the temporary employment law and, secondly, that labour law is given the opportunity to have exclusive jurisdiction when it comes to the principle of equal treatment. It is about some companies today treating temporary workers in a way that does not have the same rights and conditions as permanent employees in private companies. The reason for the bill is that, in the context of the implementation of the Temporary Employment Directive, if anyone knows it, a request has been made by the social partners that certain matters relating to compliance with the Temporary Employment Act could be dealt with by the Labour Court. A committee with the participation of the social partners has worked on the issue and the draft law is a response to their recommendations. I think that, as the Left does, it is very good that in future labour law will deal with these matters and that it is not necessarily necessary to go out into the civil law system. The Left can recommend the bill and we look forward to the labour law, with its special knowledge of the social partners, labour market conditions and the collective agreement system, being able to ensure uniform and objective treatment of these issues and practices through the application of the temporary employment law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133716	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133724	Thank you. With the Temporary Employment Directive, we ensured greater equality between permanent and temporary workers in our labour market. We increasingly have a problem with companies using temporary workers instead of permanent employees who have proper conditions and can be sure to have notice, etc. Subsequently there has been work going on, including that the social partners have looked at it and have now made the recommendation that my fellow rapporteur from the Left has so well explained here. It joins the Socialists and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133803	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133825	This proposal simply means that in future labour law will be able to deal with cases of compliance with the principle of equal treatment if an undertaking has infringed the company law. Today it is the case that temporary workers are referred to a civil action if something happens, but if they are covered by an agreement, it is right and proper for them to be able to have their case dealt with in labour law and to note that the temporary employment agency is also covered by an agreement. In the Danish People's Party we think it is right and proper, but it should be said that temporary workers who are not covered by an agreement still have to go into civil proceedings. The Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133912	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021133919	Thank you. It is a bit strange that here, where we are talking about temporary employment laws, there are some of the rapporteurs who are temporary workers in this area today. Well, it was just a small statement. But let me say straight away that the Radical Left supports the bill. You could say that a forerunner of this was the temporary employment law. And I believe that, in the context of the temporary employment law, we found an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of temporary workers and, on the other hand, the consideration of the competitiveness and competitiveness of temporary employment agencies. It can be said that this bill is under the temporary employment law, and it is about labour law having the means to check that things are happening the way they are supposed to be. We can support that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134013	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134024	Thank you. When you look at the number of temporary workers in the rapporteur's posts, I think that in reality it is very good to see that the number of temporary workers on the Danish labour market is on the whole very much increasing, and this poses certain problems, as has also been mentioned. The temporary employment law itself is not written at every point, just as the SF had written it, if we alone had led the pen. But that is not what we are discussing today. The Temporary Code has been adopted, and that is why we think it is sensible that labour law should be given the powers proposed in the draft law. It is also a proposal supported by the LO and the FTF, and the SF will therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134123	It's a fast expedition here today. After all, this draft law has been a wish of the trade union movement, which has strongly stated that it is desirable to extend the competence of labour law, so that certain disputes concerning compliance with the temporary employment law, even where there is no agreement within the temporary employment agency, must be dealt with in labour law. This desire shares the Enhedslisten with the trade union movement, and for once we can see that we also agree with the employers. The trade union system is anything else equal in assessing whether a temporary employment agency is covered by or has signed a collective agreement, whether it is national and whether the agreement has been concluded by the most representative social partners rather than by the ordinary courts. So Enhedslisten supports the adoption of L 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134207	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134214	Thank you. Now I do not know whether the Minister has chosen some very easy legislative proposals today, because it has to be said that it is quite a baptism to get in here in the Folketing with three legislative proposals in a row. I don't know if it tends a little boilerry, but it can come later. It's not the same thing as fighting over roads, shining and something like that. Well, this bill certainly doesn't differ from ours. So, although it deals with disputes and disagreements, we are in agreement here and can say that there may well be proposals in the hearings which are worth following up, but we can then do so in committee. And then I just want to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134255	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134314	It is a legislative proposal that enjoys broad support, but one might also say that it is not one of the sexiest legislative proposals we have had yet. It is a draft law which therefore decides where to place disputes for temporary employment agencies, i.e. whether it should be in labour law or ordinary courts. What we attach importance to in the Conservative People's Party is, of course, that the social partners have agreed on the recommendation precisely to give labour law the competence to settle disputes in the area of temporary work, which is why we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134341	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134350	In some ways, this is perhaps the first real working day for me as a new minister in this area, at least on the first day when Parliament has gathered to deal with legislative proposals. And then that's right, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen, that three out of three with a united Parliament behind them is not so bad. I think there is reason to thank the Danish Parliament for this, because what my predecessor has organised here are three obviously correct legislative proposals, which could also be seen as a new minister in this area as being sensible. And then the cooperating Parliament shows here that we also stand together in this. So I would just like to thank you for that. I would like to say once again that the work of the committee which is now under way must, of course, once again contribute as easily and flexibly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134433	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141021134446	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, October 22, 2014, at 10 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
