ParlaMint-DK_20141022130000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 14 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on driving in hash affected condition). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The unitary parliamentary group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Parliament of Pernille Skipper as a member of the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130034	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup, and Mr. Martin Henriksen is an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130051	The question is this: what is the Minister's view that a 2012 ruling by the European Court of Justice has given the Netherlands extended scope for border control, why has the government waited for two years to strengthen border controls, as announced by the Prime Minister in the opening speech, and what is the reason why the government now, unlike in the past, still wants stronger border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130119	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it is extremely positive that, with this judgment, we will have a proper opportunity to have control of what is happening at our border crossings, because we in Denmark, like a number of other European countries, if not all, are challenged by the cross-border crime. It is whether we are talking about illegal immigration, human trafficking, cross-border crime and other things that challenge us. That is also why we are putting forward a bill here in November which will significantly strengthen police control in the Danish border areas. Our proposal gives the police general access to stop and control people who have travelled to Denmark, whether they come by car, bus, plane, train or ship. The control access that we want to introduce must be flexible so that controls can be increased if specific problems arise, for example. with illegal immigration. Registration plate scanners and mobile cameras must be set up at the borders and in border areas to collect the information needed by the Danish police. It is true that this model is inspired by some of what has happened in the Netherlands and that the Dutch authorities have been using since 2012. Perhaps I should say, for the sake of good order, that the government informed the Danish Parliament about the Dutch model back in 2012. The Danish Government has chosen to be inspired by the Dutch model, but it is clear, I would also like to say as a new Minister of Justice, that it will of course take some time to consider whether this model can be transferred directly to Denmark and whether we have the same needs and what has been needed of adjustments in relation to the Danish conditions. Then, of course, it is also necessary to ensure that we meet the obligations we have in relation to Schengen cooperation. Therefore, in early 2014 my predecessor, Karen Hækkerup, chose to set up a working group consisting of the Ministry of Justice, the police and the National Council for Foreign Affairs. The task of the working party was to prepare this area and thus to improve police control of foreigners in border areas and airports. Two weeks ago, the committee's recommendations were put forward, and these are the recommendations of the working group on which the future bill will be based. I know and it must be my end. Denmark is one of the first countries if not the first one to transfer Dutch experience to its own legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130341	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130342	Thank you for your answer. I think it is extremely good and we in the Danish People's Party think that we, the government and the Danish People's Party, agree that border controls work, and then we need to get something established that works. We have noticed, of course, that one of the first things that happened when the current government came to power in 2011 was that the agreement that had been made between the previous government and the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats on strengthened customs controls at the borders was dropped. It was torn apart because it didn't work with any more customs officers, more police, license plate scanners, and what else was contained in that deal. The fact that we now think that more border controls are good and that we want to establish plate scanners, as we have had in the Netherlands, video surveillance, etc., is a step in the right direction. However, I would like to know why it should wait so long, why it was that the old agreement, which was actually a bid for how to do this, was dropped, and now we think that we can easily do some border controls. That is the one question that I think would be relevant to get an answer to. The second question is: how does the government follow up these new opportunities, because one thing is that it offers some new opportunities and that the government now two years later considers that the Dutch model can be used, but another is how to really strengthen border controls by means of customs officers, police and the like. So I would like to know whether resources are included and, if so, how many, to SKAT respectively, i.e. the customs officers, and the police, i.e. The National Police. I should like to say that the impression you get when you assess these things is that more resources are needed both at Copenhagen Airport and, for example, at Copenhagen Airport. at the Danish-German border.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130553	Well, let me just say at the outset that I think it is absolutely obvious, obvious and obviously necessary that we should have increased efforts in our border areas, because crime is cross-border, and because both those who carry out crime and everything associated with crime are moving across European borders. This is a challenge in itself, but it is, of course, especially when we are part of Schengen cooperation where there are open borders. That is why in Denmark we must always take stock of the situation, prevent everything we can, be present, control and ability to sanction when those who carry out the crime move. That is why efforts in border areas are important. The exact content of the draft law, including the resource issue, must of course wait for us to be ready to table the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130642	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130644	As I said, I think it is a good thing that we agree that border controls work. So I'm just looking for answers to the follow-up questions we have here. Why should it take so long for the government to agree that border controls work and that we can use the Schengen rules as they are today? You couldn't do that before the opening speech here not long ago. Is this about the fact that there's gonna be parliamentary elections soon? Could that be it? Some people think so. Something else, of course, is the question of resources that I asked about. I understand that the government is considering this, but on the other hand I must also say that it is important that there is consistency between what you say and what you then do. And if you say that border controls are important, you also have to do so, which means that more resources are needed for customs officers and police officers. Does the government agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130735	Just as important is that you do what you say, just as important is that what you set in motion actually works. If we look at the 5 months of permanent customs controls that were introduced, among other things. together with the Danish People's Party, it led to a total of 88 police reviews. That's about a case every other day. And without being able to have the exact number of cases of cross-border crime, I believe that as a new Minister of Justice, too, you have not caught it all with the permanent control that you set up under the then government together with the Danish People's Party. What could perhaps take us one step further in this area would be to find the right instruments, because border barriers do not solve all the problems that exist, nor is it certain that the new instruments we are introducing will solve everything. But the fact that we are here has license plate scanners, video surveillance, and that we can make it flexible so that we can put in where the need is greatest, I think we will give the Danish police a better chance to catch up on some of the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130840	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130845	Thank you. I still think it would be a good thing if the Minister could reply to the Government's view that there is a need to add more resources. Does the Minister think there is a need for this? The Minister must have an opinion on this. If the Minister simply thinks that it is fine as it is today, then the Minister can say so, but in wanting to take initiatives by the government, as I understand it, in order to strengthen border controls, one must also take a position on whether there is enough money to do so, so to speak. That is the one question I want to ask. The second question is: how does the Minister envisage strengthening border controls at sea, because we have a number of coastlines in Denmark? Is that part of the government's thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130929	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130930	It is certainly difficult to set up border barriers all the way along the west coast, if it is the Danish People's Party's own proposal on how to ensure that there is less cross-border crime. As far as resource consumption is concerned, it goes without saying that, when we want to optimise the effort at border controls, we must of course also follow the necessary resources, and we will explain this when we put forward the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130953	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022130956	It is always exciting to have a discussion about border barriers. I am quite sure that I did not say that border barriers should be erected on all beaches in Denmark. But we can go back and look at the quotes and we'll figure it out. I would like to say on the first part that the government must have a position on whether there is a need to add more resources. You cannot just have a point of view, because after all the government has been a government for quite some time, so it cannot be just now that you are beginning to consider whether there is a need to add additional resources. So if the Minister could lift just a chunk of what the government thinks in that area, it would be liberating. When we talk about border controls at sea, I would say that it is obvious to include, for example. The Navy or the Navy. I just want to know whether this is some of what the government is also considering, because it is true that there is more than the border between Denmark and Germany. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131041	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131042	As far as resources are concerned, my answer remains the same, namely that when we want to step up our efforts at our borders, we will of course also ensure that the necessary resources are available, and that will also be reflected in the legislative proposal we are putting forward. The precise content of the overall control issue will therefore also be reflected in the draft law, which has not yet been finalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131110	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last exchange of views on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131116	I think it is rather striking that the Minister and the Danish People's Party agree that border controls work. So I think there are many Danes who think that why did they reject things then two years ago, and why have they waited so long; why has one hesitated to respond to the judgment that was there? That's one. There is another question. The Minister is well aware that there has been a project about Copenhagen Airport for a very long time now. The idea is to hire 50 HKs to take care of passport control, in exchange for the police being replaced to deal with exactly what we are talking about here. Does the Minister agree to make a grant for Copenhagen Airport to ensure that they can start such a project? Because talking is fine, but action is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131215	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131216	I do not know whether talking is good enough, nor do I think it is enough for action to be taken. After all, it depends on whether the action you take actually works. There is no one in the current government who is opposed to us having control of what is happening at the Danish border, whether at sea or on land, or at the airport. It goes without saying that we have a very, very great and strong commitment to do what we can to combat cross-border crime. Allow me to continue to challenge the fact that border barriers are the best answer. If we look at the experience of the five months of permanent customs controls, there is no indication that this is the most effective weapon. That is why we are now seeking new means. There we are in the situation where the Netherlands has gained some experience which we believe can be transferred to Denmark. We would like to start doing so, and then, of course, we would like to discuss with the parties of the Danish Parliament how we can make the best use of the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131308	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131320	Thank you. And it's really a bit on the same street. The question is this: what is the Minister's position on border controls at Copenhagen Airport per year? 27 August this year was further weakened by the fact that the police at the airport are now no longer involved in the so-called PIU cooperation, where so far, among other things, there has been an increase in the number of people involved. has been able to see passenger lists and credit card information for analysis of aircraft arrivals as a basis for which aircraft should be subject to special controls, and what does the Minister intend to do about the acute problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131353	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131356	It is true that this follows on from what we have already discussed, and I think it is a very, very relevant issue, because there is and it goes without saying that we must of course have very effective control over what is going on, not least at Copenhagen Airport. It is also important for us to ensure that the police have the right tools in the fight against illegal immigration. Whether it is trafficking in human beings, people who come here on the wrong basis or, for that matter, criminal foreigners, the police must have access to the information necessary for intelligent, effective and modern control to be exercised. As I have just said in answering the previous question, in early 2014, my predecessor set up a working group to recommend appropriate measures to improve border and airport immigration control. The Working Party has recommended that rules be issued on which information from, inter alia, The airlines' booking systems the police must have access to. Access to that information must apply both to the control of external and internal Schengen borders, i.e. it is not just a European matter, it is also a matter for the outside world. Since cooperation is to ensure a sensible and proper administration of police powers in full compliance with the Personal Data Act, the rules will be drawn up in cooperation with the stakeholders who will provide the information, and the Data Protection Agency, because we must of course be sure that things are going on in a proper way. In other words, the police will soon have better opportunities than they have had in the past to carry out analysis-based controls, and I hope, of course, that there will be broad support for this proposal. I almost believe that the Danish People's Party will support it. The question of whether, before the new rules come into force, a problem has arisen between the SKAT and the police is new to me. I cannot give a full answer to that today, but I would very much like to obtain information about it, because it goes without saying that we must of course be able to ensure proper control, even until the new rules come into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131552	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131553	I think it is a good thing if the Minister wants to get it started and get to grips with the problems that seem to be here very quickly. I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of when something can happen. Because it seems a little strange to say, on the one hand, that more border controls and border controls are now needed, but, on the other hand, they do not make the necessary changes, which means that you can use the instruments you have today. This really means a deterioration, as is currently the case with the police at Copenhagen Airport. It seems to me to be quite wrong, and if this is an expression of the Minister's agreement, then it is a small step on the way. The new thing I have noticed is that the matter is not new; it has been discussed last week in the media, and there has also been a statement by the National Police in the case ■ is that it seems that it may take some time before it is in place. I do not know how well the Minister is informed, but I hope that the Minister will be well informed about that situation. Because, as it appeared last week, it could take many months for this to come into place, and then we have to go right into the new year before it gets settled. And then we are in a situation where the government says one thing, that now there must be more border controls and that now you do something but the reality shows the opposite. This must be compared to the fact that we can also see in the reports from the government that have been sent a link with the study work that the former minister has put in motion that there will not be an increase in the pressure of control, and we can then get a little uneasy about whether what the government stands for is progress or whether it is really just a step backwards. So I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of this whole miser, which makes it more difficult for the police than it has been in the past to work on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131802	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131804	It would, of course, be incredibly crazy to put forward a legislative proposal that would be a step backwards in the effort. Well, of course we have no plans at all to do that. And I am actually quite pleased that it is already on the way that we are getting our efforts stepped up in these areas. I also have to be honest and say that since it is my first day in the Danish Parliament as Minister of Justice, there will be questions that I will not be able to answer adequately. But, of course, I would like to put that right as soon as possible. And if there are current challenges in relation to Copenhagen Airport, let me get a statement as quickly as possible and pass it on to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. For it goes without saying that if there is some time when there is something that is not working entirely optimally, then of course we must do what we can to correct it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131848	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131849	I think it is a good thing if the Minister will make that statement and also tell us when the changes that are so obviously needed because the current situation is unsustainable will be put in place. It is a well-known fact that we reach, for example. is about sending F-16 flights to the fight against the Islamic State, can do things in very, very few days in the Folketing. There is therefore a situation in which, since 27 August, there has been no access to the passenger lists, which are probably the basis for part of the random checks that are being carried out, of illegal persons, terrorists and others entering our country. Can the Minister not see that it is not really connected and that it is urgent to do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131931	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131933	I can certainly see that, if the problems are as the honourable Member says, there is reason to react. But I must have the opportunity to clarify whether that is the case with all the things that are raised, and then I will return to the Folketing as quickly as I possibly can.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131946	Sir. Martin Henriksen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022131952	Thank you. I think it is fair, of course, that we as a new minister should familiarize ourselves with the area. But I must also say that there are often new ministers in this government, and if we are always to wait for the new ministers to get into the material, it may be a bit heavy. It is not because I would like to criticize the minister who is sitting here at some point, but not today, but there have been ministers before the new Minister for Justice, also ministers who have been with the Integration Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights looking at the situation at Copenhagen Airport and who have been told too rough how things work, and that has not always been particularly reassuring, I would just say. So I would quite clearly call on the Minister of Justice to go out and both deal with the subject that Mr. Peter Skaarup and I are asking about here, but also more generally, how control actually works, for example. at Copenhagen Airport, because there are massive deficiencies. But I would like to ask: can the Minister not see that it sends out some strange signals that the Ministry of Justice is deciding to weaken at least parts of the control in August, and then there is an opening speech from the Prime Minister, which then proclaims that border controls will now be strengthened? So it is a call from here for such a clearer line to be taken on the issue of border controls by the government at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132110	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132112	I just think it is quite obvious that there must of course be proper action at the border crossings that we have for other countries, no matter how people come here, because crime is cross-border. There are very, very serious crime problems in Denmark that relate to the crime and the criminals who migrate across borders. That is why it is quite obvious to me, as Minister of Justice, that efforts at borders are vital to our ability to know what is going on in Denmark, and certainly also in relation to the subsequent investigation. If there have been any specific problems between the police and the SKAT in terms of access to some information at Copenhagen Airport, I have to have the opportunity to uncover it and return, so that I can give a full answer, because I assume that is what the Danish Parliament wants. It goes without saying that there is nothing in the area of justice to be delayed by the arrival of a new minister. But when new information comes to me, I have to uncover it and make sure that the Folketing has a sufficient knowledge base to stand on. And then, of course, if it turns out that there is a gap, so to speak, between the situation we are facing today and the legislation I have intended to apply in the future, which is, of course, about stepping up efforts at borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132226	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132228	I would like to call on you, and it is then more an invitation than a question to the Minister of Justice when looking to find a solution to this issue, but also more generally in terms of strengthening control, among other things. in Copenhagen Airport, and also at other airports, that, in addition to discussing it with the police management, it is also discussed with the shop stewards who are for the private officers, because they have, I think, some good ideas on where it is that you can go in and tighten up. It must be more a call from here than a question, and then let us have some border controls, Minister!
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132301	I would like to assure you that I am also very, very happy to discuss all important matters with those who face the problems very directly. That is the way I have worked as a minister in another area, and I have no doubt that if you are to have the complete picture, no matter where you deal with Danish politics, you have to make it all the way around. And there is no doubt that those who are directly involved in the work obviously have information, knowledge, attitudes, ideas that can also be used in political work. Yes, there is a need to step up efforts around the Danish borders because we have so many problems with cross-border crime. So I have taken up the call.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132345	Sir. Peter Skaarup to final note.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132349	I'm also calling in the wake of what Mr. Martin Henriksen asked about this, a clear answer from the Minister as to when something is going to happen. So, according to TV 2 News on October 14, this has been a problem since August 27th. I know there has been a new minister, but it was after all the Minister's party colleague who sat there before, so perhaps we could have acted already now. But I think we should give the Minister a chance to sort this out to the extent that it has not been possible. According to TV 2, it is the case that the Ministry of Justice considers that action can be taken at the earliest in the new year to remedy this problem of a lack of border control, and then a report must be produced on the answer that comes from the National Police in order to translate things into reality. Then the Minister cannot well say to us here in Parliament's Question Time so that we do not have to ask the Minister again, for example. A week or two that something happens now? 'Cause I guess you're expecting from, uh... 'cause I think you're expecting from, uh... The police and the Danish people that the government is acting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132452	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132454	After all, we are in a situation where the officials of the Ministry of Justice are present in the Chamber and have heard what the Minister has just said, namely that a statement must be made by the police on the problems raised here today. As soon as that statement is completed, and it should of course be made as quickly as possible, it will be transferred to the Folketing. Then, of course, I will decide whether something needs to be done right away. Because there should be no doubt whatsoever that we need to have effective action around the Danish borders, not least in relation to Copenhagen airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132528	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, and Mr. Martin Geertsen is an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132538	Thank you. And congratulations to the Minister on the new post. I hope, of course, for good cooperation, which I also had with the minister in the former minister's ministry. The question is simple: does the Minister agree that the government has relaxed foreign policy 31 times since its accession?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132553	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132554	Thank you for inviting me to work together. I would like to return it now, both to the Left, which is asking the question here, but also to the Danish People's Party, which has just asked questions. So to the specific answer: it is quite true that the government, in accordance with our government basis, has made a large number of changes in the area of foreigners. In the area of family reunification, if we are to take a concrete example, we have abolished it, I think, an unreasonable scoring system introduced by the VK government before the 2011 elections. It was a point system that made a very, very big difference between people. It was easier to live in Denmark with his foreign spouse if he was an academic than if he was a craftsman. It is clear that, as a Social Democrat, I do not think academics are worth more than craftsmen are, and this must be reflected both in our education policy, but also in our foreign policy. I have had occasion to see the 31 points that are being asked. I understand that one of the elements considered to be a relaxation is that the Refugee Board has been extended by two people, including one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is probably a little doubtful whether one can call it a relaxation and whether one can, moreover, impose a specific name on it. So it may well be that there are grounds for discussing the collection of points which the Left has found. Nevertheless, I would very much like to discuss foreign policy with the Left too. Maybe that's what we needed for the rest of the time today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132723	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132725	But I appreciate that the Minister is clear, and I acknowledge that this is certainly not the greatest relaxation of the law on foreigners. On the other hand, the Minister's political allies, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, have written on the social media Twitter, that they have relaxed 26 times. And when I ask, it is just to get a sense of the direction in which the government's policy is moving. In other words, there is Impressionist art, which is more right-wing than the way in which the people and, incidentally, we in the Folketing also perceive the government in the field of foreigners at the moment. Do you push, take off, or how do you do it? There is, after all, a discussion at the moment about whether the relaxations that the government has made in the field of foreigners are a direct reason why Denmark is an asylum magnet these days. The Minister is certainly aware of the statement by the UNHCR that shows that in Denmark we are receiving more Syrian refugees than 15 EU countries together. That is why my interest is in the matter. Whether it is 30, 31 or 26 areas that have been relaxed is not crucial to me. For me, it is essential for the Minister to recognise that policy has been relaxed in a wide range of areas. It has had a consequence; it brings far more asylum seekers to Denmark, it burdens us in the economic field, and the government finds it difficult to accept cause and coherence. Reason: The law on foreigners is relaxed. Coherence and impact: There are significantly more asylum seekers coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132847	Tightens, relaxes, tightens, relaxes I think there are many who would like to impose different words on each other, and there is probably also a great interest in finding out if I am tighter or if I am relaxed. In principle, within the limits of fairness, all the words you want to say can be imposed on me, because that is not what matters. What matters is whether the immigration policy we are pursuing in Denmark works. I feel that when it comes to foreign policy, I think that perhaps the best starting point at all is that things should work. That means that integration must work. We need to make our ordinary community life work and, in order for it to be possible, there is, of course, a major discussion in how many people come here, and that is in the balance that this government's policy on foreigners is in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132936	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022132938	I think it is interesting to use the word balance, because balance or equilibrium is certainly not what I am going to use to characterise government policy with at the moment. We see the Prime Minister talking in his opening speech about austerity. The government's second-in-command in the form of Mr. Morten Østergaard then says that the tightening may not be so tight. I'm not supposed to be smart about whether the minister is a tighter or a slacker. I have suspected the Minister to be a little petty radical in this area, but perhaps the Minister can sort that out himself. But does the government intend to roll back other reliefs in the field of foreigners? Now you go in and tighten the rules for family reunification; is it the first step, or is that what we see from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133019	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133020	But the area of foreigners is as changing as any other policy area. While I was Minister for Employment, I also often faced people from the Left Party who said: can the Minister promise that there will be no more in this area, or will the Minister promise that there will be more in that area? Well, politics is the ability to respond not just to rule, but to respond to the challenges we face. This also applies to the area of foreigners. Now take the current situation in the area of asylum. Excuse me, the world is on fire. The United Nations estimates that we have not had more refugee flows than since right after World War II. Every day we sit in front of our TV at home and see people being beheaded and persecuted; bombs that go down on people's heads. Of course, there are very, very large flows of refugees in the slipstream of a Middle East that are on fire. It also has a spill-over effect compared to Denmark. We must be able to respond to this because, on the one hand, we must of course protect those people who need our protection, but, on the other hand, we must also make it work in a Danish context. That is why we have laid the foundations for austerity in the area of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133131	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133137	Thank you. Now the Minister says that the Minister cannot really deal with the issue of whether you are tighter or relaxing in the area of foreign policy. However, Minister, the reason why we are interested is that the Prime Minister has used the word tightening up with great precision on one of the points we will return to later on the agenda. So the Prime Minister is certainly ready and pointed at what is a tightening and what is not a tightening. That is why we are asking about the 31 points that we consider to be easing the Minister's agreement that these are relaxations, on the basis of the same yardstick that the Prime Minister uses when she says with sharp precision that what the government itself is doing now is a tightening-up. Let me take one example: does the Minister believe that the abolition of start-up aid is a relaxation of Danish immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133239	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133241	I believe that we need to see the start-up aid in a different context from the purely foreign policy. What was the situation after a number of years of start-up aid as part of the Danish benefit system was that part of the people who wanted to enter the labour market animated by the start-up aid did not enter the labour market. It could therefore be seen that, despite the boom and despite the demand for labour, there was therefore a group of citizens with ethnic minority backgrounds, some of those with refugee backgrounds who did not get into work, who did not get into employment, who did not get away from the cash assistance system, but were instead kept in a situation without work, without self-support and with a very low amount of benefits. There was, of course, a situation in which one had to consider whether it was the right way to do things. One might then ask whether it is to be tighter or not when I say that I would really rather have a stronger focus on how we ensure that people who come here are actually available for the Danish labour market and, as quickly as possible, become self-sufficient. That is the spirit of, for example, the reform of the social security system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133351	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133353	Then perhaps the Minister could elastorize a tiny bit within which parts of Danish legislation can be used the concepts of tightening and slackening if there is something that is called it? In other words, I would like to have a precision of that, because it is the government itself, the Prime Minister, who has used the word austerity with precision for a selected proposal that is being put forward here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Where is it that you can use the concept of tightening and then the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133432	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133433	In any case, I do not think it is advisable for the questioner to use the concept of slackening, because I am not sure that it is part of the Danish language, and perhaps it should not. You can play that game. I know what the Left would like to do, and we can then probably spend an incredibly long time together discussing whether something is tight or whether something is lax. I will not judge what other people use in their political arguments. If you look separately at the asylum proposal that has been put forward, you will see that it is an asylum proposal that has been put forward because right now we see an extraordinary influx of asylum seekers into Denmark. They don't come without a reason. They come because they are fleeing mainly from the Middle East. Nevertheless, this influx is so great that we have to react because we can already see that the municipalities are having difficulty keeping up with it. Is it to relax or tighten asylum rules? It is, of course, tight, but we are not doing it without a good reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133529	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmid-Schmidt for the final exchange.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133536	But it is with great satisfaction that I note that the Minister knows what the Left wants; that is nice. If the Minister could then also explain a little more precisely what the government wants, then I would feel both enlightened and happy, but as a member in the rear row and as one of the youngest in the Left's soldier, it may of course be that I have to make a little extra effort to understand the government's policy. But when it is, my colleague, sir. Martin Geertsen asks so strongly about this, it is because the number of asylum seekers for Denmark has multiplied over the last year, and that is of course something that both puts pressure on our economy, but which also creates challenges in the country's municipalities, especially when we know that Denmark takes a relatively large share in relation to its EU partners. But I really think it might be quite interesting to hear the Minister's personal attitude... and I sense that the Minister may be like a pigeon flying among hawks on this question: Is the Minister well when the government roll back a number of the relaxations that have been made in the area and make them tighter instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133627	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133629	Well, now I understand that not only do you have to be relaxed or tighter, but you also have to be a bird. I would just like to say that as Minister for Employment, I have now spent three years fighting bird-birds in employment policy; so the Left is not allowed to bring them into foreign policy, so I have to start over there. Well, come on to the substance of the matter. We can let this be such a yelling contest, but what are we gonna do with it? The reality is, of course, that there is integration that must work, there is a policy of aliens that must be balanced, there are some current challenges in the area of asylum that need to be resolved. The answer is not, as some claim, that you can send all the world's refugees to Africa now stop and get into the fight where the reality is. Of course, we must provide people with the protection they are entitled to when faced with a difficult situation, but things must also be done in a proper way, and that is why we need to bring forward the legislative proposal we are now making, because there is a current challenge with a very, very large, an exceptionally large number of asylum seekers, and we cannot just look at that developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133728	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and it is also by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt and also with Mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133741	I am pleased that the Minister would like to debate the substance. I would also like to do so, and therefore the question is: what is the Minister's expectation of the effect of the government's announced adjustment in access to family reunification for certain refugees, when the adjustment will probably only affect one third of Syrian refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133800	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022133802	After all, we have managed to initiate the discussion on the previous question, so I must begin by regretting if I repeat something that the questioner has already heard. However, I would like to reply properly to the question. As the questioner is well aware, we are in a really, really difficult situation because the number of refugees in the world has grown quite explosively in a very, very short time. We have a Middle East that is de facto on fire, we have serious conflicts, right now mainly in Syria, but also in Iraq and a number of other places. We have the largest number of refugees in the world ever since World War II, and it also rubs off on Denmark. We have a task to do, and I think we do, but I also believe that we should allow ourselves to be realistic, and I believe that we are obliged to do so in relation to what task we can carry out in Denmark. We foresee that the restrictions contained in the legislative proposal we are discussing here will have a broad scope and therefore a real significance. This is particularly true in relation to the municipalities, which are currently undertaking a difficult task. At the same time, it is also important for me to stress that the new rules will not apply to all refugees, because the refugees who are protected under the convention will also be forward-looking. The government's proposals mean that people fleeing from what we call general conditions, such as civil war, will only have temporary protection. For we all want to be able to return to our country of origin, when peace will hopefully return soon and there will not be the same need for protection for our refugees. It is precisely because the need for protection alone is temporary that the government proposes that it should be changed as a starting point so that family reunification cannot take place during the first year. There are many things that are involved in the effect of such rule changes. But at the end of the day I would like to stress that the flows of refugees and the composition of the refugee movements we see are very, very changing or at least may be so and that therefore no one can predict what they are for refugees, for example. Next year comes to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134015	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134017	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The change in the flow of refugees is, after all, a reason for making this change, and I would really like to do so if the Minister can tell us a little more about it. Because it's certainly not something I'm familiar with. My impression is that the flow of refugees has been steady and increasing and that it can be expected to grow further in the coming years. But if the Minister can explain a little more about how these patterns in the refugee flows change, then that is something I am very interested in. The reason I am asking is not that I want to bother the Minister personally. This is simply because the Minister's predecessor has stated very clearly that the restrictions will have an impact on the majority of the refugees who come here. It has been recorded in the Assembly Hall that it will affect and affect a substantial part of the people who come and seek asylum in Denmark. The latest government bid is that that number is down to a third. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has also stated in the press on several occasions that he regards it as a minor intervention and that he will question the extent of the effect it will actually have. So the Minister must forgive me for being a little confused about what the effect of the bill that the government is going to make is actually going to be. It has also been in the press over the past week that the way we deal with family reunification cases here is fast and effective, and we can really be proud of that. But it probably has a meaning too, I think, in relation to where you choose to go. So if the minister could briefly tell us a little more about these refugee flows and the change in them and explain whether it affects a large part or only a small part. Perhaps she will also tell the listeners of the parliamentary debates and sign a little more about the family reunification rules important. I would be very interested to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134157	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134159	It is quite true that the number of asylum seekers for Denmark has been increasing, and that is why we are responding with the legislative proposal that is about to be put forward. After all, the number of refugees has increased explosively, including worldwide, and it is clear that when these movements take place in the Middle East, they have a spill-over effect in European countries. When I say that we do not know the content of the future flows of refugees, that is, of course, the number. And you can't be sure about that. But it is true that right now, over recent months, there has been an increase in a marked increase and also such a large increase that we are responding to it. What I was actually trying to say before was that, in the light of the future, we do not know the composition of the group of refugees who come here, i.e. the division between those who are convention-based and those who are not. For good reasons, we cannot say anything about this. What we can say is how the composition has been in 2013, because for good reasons we do not know the figure for 2014, because the year is not yet over, and all cases are far from finished. If we look at the 2013 • now I can see that I have to do it very, very quickly then we can see that the distribution is such that about two thirds are covered by the convention and one third are not. That is why, of course, I must also say that, when it has been produced in the past, it is expected that the majority will be included in the new bill that it is not right in relation to the figures and the facts and the things we know about with regard to the current refugee composition. This may change over time, but if we look at the figures for 2013, that is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134327	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134329	Honestly, I would like to thank the Minister for that, because I think the Minister is very well aware of that. But it is also in stark contrast to what the Minister's own Prime Minister and Head of Government have said from the Parliament's platform. But it's nice to get it in place. I think that a lot of people in the Folketing are worried, and so am I. To be honest, the government seems to have lost control of the area. A short time ago, 7,500 asylum seekers were expected to come to Denmark. Then the figure was adjusted up to 10,000, and now the latest adjusted figure is 20,000. So I think it is important that we keep an eye on the area, and I know that the Minister is also interested in that. I understand that the government has not yet published how many asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark in September. It would be quite appropriate to know this in order to assess whether the policy is working and to assess the latest initiatives. Will the Minister tell us today how many asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark in September?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134416	It is true that the figures in the area of asylum are changing, which is why it is of course important that we do what we can to anticipate how things are developing. But it is, I have to say, difficult to make even for an opposition politician with the conditions currently in force in the Middle East. 'Cause it's really fast. The atrocities, such as: The IS, the Islamic State, is behind it, has thrown away even more unrest, we have continued a very, very bloody and ugly civil war in Syria, and we have a lot of refugees in the neighbourhood. After all, all these things are part of how things develop. It is quite true that the figure is written up, and that is also why we are reacting. I think it is the case that the figure for September is published today. I got it for information yesterday, which is why I have no problem now passing it on to the Danish Parliament. The figure for September in the case of asylum seekers is approx. 3,000 people. In other words, there is an increase from August to September.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134512	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134520	Thank you. This was interesting news with the 3 000 for the month of September, and I would like the Minister to consider whether this changes the overall number of asylum seekers, i.e. the general projection for 2014, which has so far been 20,000. Please allow me to go to the bite on the question of what effect the government's bill will have here. Because it is true that this bill will not be about Convention refugees, but about war refugees, if you will. I have a hypothesis which I would ask the Minister to address, because this is a reaction to the general granting of asylum to people fleeing from war, which was given last year. When an asylum seeker comes to the country with the in mind, perhaps told by smugglers, that you can no longer have family reunification if you are a refugee of war, what does the Minister think that the asylum seeker in question will tell the Danish authorities? That you are a fugitive of war or that you are personally persecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134627	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134628	I can't and won't relate to hypothetical situations. That is simply not my job as the country's Minister of Justice. I would very, very much like, on the basis of the latest figures for the month of September, to send a reply to the Danish Parliament as to whether it is expected to have any impact on the overall forecast for 2014. This is, of course, a practical and entirely relevant and topical question to ask. I believe that, in relation to what information is in circulation in human trafficking circles and in relation to the whole of it, quite unpleasant infrastructure, which is in the area of asylum, is the case that the vast majority of people fleeing have one thing in mind, and that is protection. It's getting away from the war, getting away from the horrors, bringing yourself and any family to safety. But we should not be blind to the fact that a whole system of trafficking, transport and logistics has emerged alongside it. We also know that information on specific country legislation is being provided in some contexts. So I do not think we should be blind to the fact that all factors play a role, including the austerity that we have put forward from the Danish side. But I think we should try to hold on to the fact that for the individual who escapes, it is the need for protection that drives more than anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134747	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134749	That's exactly the point. Time does not allow them to be mentioned, but there are a number of examples of water running as water runs, and of the fact that as an asylum seeker or refugee, the conditions that are now in that country are being adapted. So it is still interesting to me whether the Minister can completely reject the fact that we will see that people who would perhaps have regarded themselves as war refugees so far and told the authorities that they were doing so, rather than saying that they are individually persecuted precisely and precisely because of the change that the government is going to make here. There is the following question: What value will that change really have?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134834	As far as this is concerned, what matters in general is that we have to have faith that our authorities can uncover the facts when asylum is sought. This is an insanely complicated area and, of course, it is not made any easier by the fact that the influx is as large as it is, why our legislative proposal has been put forward. But it is a task of the authorities to identify the authenticity of what is being said by the asylum seekers who come here and, of course, the authorities must take into account that there may now be other elements that can be included in people's deliberations, also in relation to what is being said. But it is a task for the authorities to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134912	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmid-Schmidt for the final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022134918	Thank you to the Minister for the various answers. I am no less concerned by the discussion we have had in the Chamber today. The new figure, i.e. that 3 000 asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark in September, means that, if that figure remains, by 2015, we can expect at least 36 000 people. And if the trend continues, that number can only be expected to increase. This only confirms my assumption that the government's relaxation has led to a significantly greater influx as the situation deteriorates and that, if it is not out of control, the area will certainly need the Minister's political vigilance. I really believe that the Minister should consider convening the parties of the Folketing for new discussions on what we can do in this area to ensure that Denmark will not also be an asylum magnet in the future. The Minister is to be thanked for his frankness, but the concern on my side of the House has certainly not diminished.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135004	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135006	In fact, I would strongly recommend the Left Party not to ignore the conditions prevailing in the world. It is simply not permissible to conduct immigration and asylum policies in Denmark without knowing what is going on in the world, and of course also recognise that there is a connection between the greatest refugee disaster since the Second World War and the conditions prevailing in Denmark. We simply have to take this as a basis if we want to be a government-supporting party. So I would like to say when the questioner uses the word worried: I am just as worried. I am concerned both on behalf of the people whose homes have been destroyed and whose land is at war, and then the people who are being persecuted. And I'm worried about what we have to do in Denmark. Because this is not an easy task and it is not easy for the country's municipalities to deal with such a huge number of asylum seekers at once. That is why we need to react, and that is what we are doing with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135054	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Martin Geertsen and with Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135102	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135105	I completely forgot before the meeting and was really very rude not to congratulate the Minister on the new ministerial post. My question is this: does the Minister agree that since its accession the government has made it considerably more attractive to apply to Denmark as an asylum seeker?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135122	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135126	There is, of course, a certain risk that we will be going in circles with the questions here, but let us strive together to have a proper discussion. In other words, I must not just say first, and the questioner knows very well that no comma has been changed in the conditions for obtaining asylum in Denmark after this government has joined. We have now taken the initiative to tighten up the rules for certain civil war refugees in the light of an increasing number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark, and we are putting forward legislative proposals at the beginning of November in this respect. It is not an easy decision to make that choice. I think this is the right decision, and it can be said that on the key parameter, namely the conditions for issuing residence permits, the government has not relaxed the rules, but actually intends to tighten them up. Just so we can get this straight. May I also just say that I would probably not use the word attractive myself when we are talking about asylum seekers right now. In other words, we are dealing with people who are literally fleeing from death and destruction, and I really think it would benefit our discussion of the asylum issue if, on the one hand, we recognised that there is a world on fire, that there are serious challenges in the Middle East and that we have many refugees in the neighbourhood, while, on the other hand, we have to be realistic, pragmatic, and find, you can say, sensible solutions in a really difficult situation, and we have to be able to do that in each municipality. There are a great many tasks to be carried out right now, and we would like to remedy this situation by saying: yes, of course, we must be able to come here and obtain protection, but as far as refugees fleeing civil war are concerned, it must also be possible to return home when peace, I hope, is soon to sink over the Middle East. That is why there is another form of temporary regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135311	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135313	The temporary rule, and how much it is really going to mean, was mentioned just now in the matter of family reunification. I may have my doubts as to whether it will actually have the great effect. After all, we can easily swing up to the big words about helping people who need help. I'd like to make that kind of speech myself. But I just get worried when the government has so far estimated that it is 20,000 asylum seekers and that it may also be more than that. In other words, we have to go back many, many years, if ever, to find such a huge number of asylum seekers in Denmark. In my opinion, this means that there is both a huge economic challenge to cash aid and other things, but also that there is a cultural challenge in this as the second part of it. So, how much can Denmark absorb culturally before it damages the cohesion force? a well worn expression and in fact helps to create conflicts in Danish society? That's what I'm worried about. When I ask if it has made it more attractive to apply to Denmark, for example, it is acting. on the question of start-up aid. Because we know that water runs like water runs. It regulates through conventions, but it also regulates through economics. Let me give you an example: last year the predecessor of the Minister of Justice found out that suddenly there was a huge increase in the number of Serbs seeking asylum in this country. It was found that it was because one had a system where they could get a bag of money to go back home for. Then these Serbs were put on a catering system, a food package system if you like, and suddenly the number of Serbian asylum seekers fell. It is just to say that economics and economic incentives have an impact. So is it not true that, on this issue, I am more or less insinuating that it has become more attractive because the government has changed some financial incentives in, if I may say, a positive direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135525	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135526	In other words, we cannot ignore the fact that so massive flows of refugees out of some countries in the Middle East have a spill-over effect on very many countries. If we look at the outlying areas, we can see much, much larger flows of refugees than those that reach Denmark or any other European country at all. And if we are talking about the countries that are directly adjacent to the worst areas of conflict, then we are talking about millions of refugees in the neighbourhood. So it can be said that the greatest consequences, both of a human nature and of a number, are in the neighbourhood and not in Europe. I think that starting aid requires more words than is often possible in the discussion of it. Because there has to be a balance. On the one hand, I have no difficulty in applying economic sanctions to people who can pay them. We are also familiar with this as Minister for Employment: building our system of benefits on the basis of the right and the duty to have the consequence that we can be sanctioned and that there has to be that coherence. On the other hand, in my view, there is also a limit to the length of time that people who do not actually enter the labour market have to go on severely reduced benefits. And it is in this area of tension that we have to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135642	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135644	But now we are in a situation where we can probably count on more than 20,000 asylum seekers in 2014. So my question is, shouldn't we in the Folketing sit together and look at this? The government has addressed this with regard to the asylum rules, and that will have some effect, let us see what it will be. But should we not also look at what is involved in economic incentives? Shouldn't we address it now and have a basic talk about it, precisely because the challenge is as great as it is? It is simply historically large.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135724	It is absolutely true that it is an extraordinary situation with the violent influx to Denmark that is happening right now, and this requires us to respond and that we make things work. That is why we are putting forward a legislative proposal soon, and I would very much like to call on the Left to vote in favour of it so that the new rules can work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135743	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135749	I find it rather strange that the Minister has so difficult to admit that it has made it economically more attractive to come to Denmark. In the past, you got starter help, now you get cash help. I also think it should be impressed by the fact that the policemen who move every day in the Sandholm area can tell us that the level of orientation of the refugees who come here is very well developed, very detailed and very economically oriented. Those are the facts. I'm not making this up. That is not politically motivated. It is described in the country's media. At the same time, Danmarks Radio has also done an excellent journalistic job of documenting the conditions around Kolding Station, where people arrive every day helped by smugglers in one's sports suits with phones with laundered sim cards etc. etc. Minister, even if the recent refugees from Syria are being counted, who are coming because of terrible circumstances, the figure is increasing, and this is due to the government's policy and economic conditions to a very high degree. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135847	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022135849	So, the vast majority of asylum seekers who come to Denmark come from Syria. It's far, by far the largest group. The second largest group comes from Eritrea, and then there are some smaller groups of countries. I think it is the case that for the vast majority of the people who are on the run, and not least in the current situation, where it is largely due to the civil war in Syria, it is the desire to obtain protection that drives them. At the same time, as I said before, I believe that we should not be blind to the emergence of a parallel world, a real infrastructure, a merchanthood in terms of trafficking in human beings, transport and logistics in the whole area of asylum. There is every reason to distance ourselves from this. It is outrageous that people should be made money in an unhappy situation, and I do not think we should be blind to the fact that there is a great deal of information about all sorts of different situations, and that is part of the overall asylum picture. But I also believe that we should try to maintain that what drives the individual refugee is the need for protection. And we must then find a way to do that, where we help those who have a real need, we must make things work, and there we must, of course, discuss all the different means that exist. But again: we are about to put forward a legislative proposal, and I hope, of course, that the Left will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140003	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140006	Well, I can guarantee that the Left supports sensible legislative proposals in this area, so if we can help the Minister in the formulation, the Minister must finally make representations. Of course, the Minister finds understanding among me and others that we must combat the criminal infrastructure of trafficking in human beings. But what I asked the Minister was as follows: do not economic conditions mean anything? You used to get starter help, now you get cash help. It has been documented that the people staying in Sandholm and elsewhere attach great importance to economic conditions. Will the Minister not acknowledge that it plays an important role? It's a simple question, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140039	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140043	I think we should be careful to simplify this discussion. I think there are a lot of things that affect the situation we are in at the moment. And what is probably the most crucial thing is that we are able to act so that the task to be carried out in the municipalities is actually manageable. It has to be said that the extraordinary influx is so great that at least we think it is necessary to tighten up the asylum legislation so that there are more people who are granted temporary protection instead of the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140112	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140117	So it is thought-provoking that everything that the government is now proposing is a tightening and that everything you did when you stepped in is something else that you don't really want to define what is. I think that's tank-provoking. The ministers say that there are all kinds of motivations for refugees to go where they are now going, and that is absolutely correct. It is therefore also thought-provoking that the countries close to Italy, Spain and other countries have significantly fewer asylum seekers than we have in this country. So it was not something for the Minister to call the parties of the Folketing, not just to look at the government's bill, but also too widely to see what sort of things make you apply to Denmark as an asylum seeker?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140203	It can be said that that discussion and that knowledge are of course relevant. The question is whether this knowledge can be provided, because I am not sure that neither Mr. Martin Geertsen or I, as Minister, can call the world's smugglers and get exactly what they say when they bring people to Denmark. I don't think it's that simple, and I don't think it is either. Martin Geertsen believes. On the other hand, I believe that what we, as Danish politicians, have to deal with this issue must know whether it is the Danish Parliament or the government that there are a lot of things at stake in the area of asylum. And now we are in an extraordinary situation, which requires new answers, and that is why the government is soon putting forward a legislative proposal with changed conditions for at least part of the refugees who come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140246	The question is closed. So now we've been holding the Justice Minister for an hour, so if the Minister of Justice wants to leave, she's welcome. In my opinion, she is also welcome to answer the last question. Perhaps the parties could agree to make it a little shorter than the maximum speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140310	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140313	I think it might also be fun for the Minister, because it is about something a little different: does the Minister find it satisfactory that in the coming months Danes and foreigners living in Denmark are free to travel to Syria and participate in armed struggle without the consequences of the Danish society, because the government cannot get together to table a bill before December?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140327	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140329	It is now difficult to say at the outset that it is fun to discuss the issue of foreign fighters and Danish citizens who, on a completely distorted basis in my view, find it necessary to travel to the world's areas of conflict and often act on the wrong side of conflict. The discussion will probably not be that funny, but I would very much like to reply, even if I have been here for more than one hour. May I not just start by challenging the premise of the question, because when the Left says that people can go to Syria and Iraq completely freely to fight, without any consequences, that is not right. The Criminal Code contains provisions which mean that, depending on the specific circumstances, it may be a criminal offence to go down and participate in armed fighting; there are clear rules that help to draw criminal borders in this area. It is a criminal offence, as the questioner knows, to provide financial support or to collect funds for terrorists or terrorist organisations. It is a criminal offence to enlist persons to commit acts of terrorism. It is also a criminal offence to train, instruct or in any other way train a person to commit terrorist acts, just as it is a criminal offence to be trained, trained or instructed to commit terrorist acts. Having said that, I think there are some ambiguities in criminal justice in this area and that is, of course, why the Left is asking the question and I have, as a new Minister of Justice, intended to do something about that, because of course it should not be possible to go into what the Left suggests. I would like to ensure that our criminal justice guard in this area is sufficient to counteract participation and recruitment to armed conflicts, and that is why the government has already asked the Criminal Code Council to look at it. If the rules in force are not, but it is not, as the Left says, that you can travel around completely and freely and commit incredibly stupid things. Then I do not know whether, right here in the slipstream, I have to say that in the near future we are putting forward a legislative proposal to ensure that there are better and stronger tools to counteract this, among other things. so that the authorities can intervene without having to lift the evidence required to conduct criminal proceedings for, for example, terrorist training. But I will have to return to the precise content when I have the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140554	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140557	To take exactly the last part first, I would like to say that I am surprised that the draft law, as I read it in the government's legislative catalogue, will not be tabled until December. Well, we could send F-16 flights on day-to-day notice, and here we have a situation where, even though I am not satisfied with the government's tightening ups, it goes some way compared to what will be proposed by the bill in December. There I am surprised that one has to wait so long and not have the tools in the toolbox until December, but potentially can see young Muslim men and women, if I may say so, drone out the back door and go down and take part in armed struggle on the Islamic side, and that they even and freely because it is difficult to lift the burden of proof, in relation to whether one has participated in terror • can return to Denmark and continue their schooling, or whatever. That's one part. The second part that puzzles me is the hole that I see in the government's proposal, namely that if you run under the radar of the authorities, it is so that you can leave Denmark with a passport in your hand and participate in armed struggle, and if the authorities cannot lift the burden of proof for it, then you can also return to Denmark, regardless of the bill that the government is now going to table. And that is what the government has thrown into the Criminal Law Council, where six months, a full year or a year and a half may be allowed to go by before we can actually clarify what is going to happen there. I think the minister and the government should act more quickly in this area, and that is what is said in all friendly and objective terms, because it is serious every time there is a young Muslim woman or man going out the back door and going down to the IS.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140753	It has also been said in a friendly manner that, when speaking time was given beyond what is actually regulated, it could well have been economised with it. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140802	Well, that's very serious, and there's every reason to distance yourself from it. There is also reason to tighten up existing legislation so that we give the police more tools to prevent this. I would very much like to know whether the time process that has been organised before I took office as Minister of Justice can be brought forward in any way whatsoever. However, I also think it has to be said that there are some legal issues that need to be clarified and there are some difficult considerations to do in this area. And we in the Folketing usually agree fairly that when we legislate in a difficult area, we also have to be sure that we do it right. But I would very much like to see it speeded up in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140843	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140847	It is noted and we take the Minister's words for good goods in relation to the question of whether it is possible to bring forward what the government wants to put forward in legislative proposals and what the government has put in place in the Criminal Code Council. So we take too good goods and, of course, we will follow it up with the Minister. And I said to the President-in-Office that we do not need to continue the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140911	The minister. No. Then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, who insists on being a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140923	My good colleague, sir. Martin Geertsen is a gentleman, and now we have been holding the Minister in the Chamber for so long, so I wonder if I can find another opportunity to ask the Minister what I have in mind. It has been an amazing dialogue. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140936	Thanks to the co-author. And thank you to the Minister of Justice, who is hereby released for other work. The next question is to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Lars Barfoed, and there's Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022140957	Sir. Lars Barfoed, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141001	I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that Denmark's Radio is strengthening or weakening the idea that Denmark's Radio's Entertainment Orchestra will now be abolished. It is of course important to all of us that we have an important cultural institution, such as Denmark's Radio, which has a public service obligation. I believe that is being weakened by what is being done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141033	Thank you. Thank you for the question. I agree that Danmarks Radio is a very important cultural institution in our society, which is why I am also very pleased that in June of this year all parties in the Danish Parliament agreed on the forthcoming media agreement which will now extend from 2015 to 2018. The media agreement states that the licence transfer to Danmarks Radio in 2015, i.e. next year, will be reduced by 74.9 million. kr. So everyone agreed to impose that saving on Danmarks Radio. At the same time, a number of new requirements were made for Denmark's Radio, for example. on action against young people. It is clear that it will have consequences for Denmark's Radio's company when it imposes savings and demands new activities. This will mean that priority must be given, and it is the management of Denmark's Radio who is responsible for finding the savings by prioritising the funds and areas of action within the financial framework provided by the Danish Parliament's parties. I acknowledge that the Danish Radio Entertainment Orchestra has played a very important and valuable role in the Danish musical life, and I understand very well that there are many people who like the orchestra very much, but it does not change the task that the Danish Radio management has, namely to choose how to give priority to the means of meeting the media agreement that is now made with eight parties in the Danish Parliament, while at the same time performing their programme activities as they should. As a follow-up to the media agreement, a new public service contract will be concluded for Danmarks Radio for the period 2015-2018, in which the public service obligations of Danmarks Radio will be specified.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141223	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141226	My question was, in a sense, whether the Minister thinks that decision restricts the public service activities of Denmark's Radio, because I think it does. I am quite aware that we have an agreement that sets a framework for Denmark's Radio, and I would normally never be the one who thought that we should intervene, because we should respect that the Danish Radio's management does what they have to do. But in my opinion this resolution goes far beyond what can be done within that framework, without securing political support for it, not least because it is stipulated in the contract that there must be an entertainment orchestra. The entertainment orchestra is perhaps the prime example of public service activities at all in Denmark's Radio. It is an orchestra that has a broad popular impact, it is an orchestra that contributes so much to giving young people a sense of orchestral music, give a sense of how to bridge or actually build bridges between modern music and classical music. It is not only the young, it is all age groups who have great pleasure in the entertainment orchestra, who not only manage to penetrate the screen, but also penetrate the whole country and perform concerts. It is an orchestra that has international reputation and is highly recognized; most recently, the Vienna Symphonies have been out supporting the orchestra. That is why it is such an excellent example, as Denmark's Radio stands for, that I believe it is something we have to deal with. That is why I ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that this certainly limits the public service activity in Denmark's Radio when a band such as the Entertainment Orchestra is closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141417	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141422	Thank you. So I disagree with Mr. Lars Barfoed. I do not believe that the Entertainment Orchestra restricts the public service activity. Public service activities cannot be defined as dependent on one orchestra. There is a great musical activity under the auspices of Danish Radio, and what Denmark's Radio has decided at management level in connection with this priority exercise is to strengthen the music activities. There will be an artistic and economic strengthening of the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra, which will be given DR Big Band extended playing time and repertoire for tour activities, and more resources will be given to the Danish Radio's Girl Choir, which increases the dissemination of the Danish song and musical cultural heritage. And the district orchestras are invited to become part of the Danish Radio programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141522	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141525	Now I do not quite know whether it was me or the Minister who came to express himself wrong. I have certainly not said that the entertainment orchestra restricts the public service, I think it is the decommissioning, but let it be. I think we both know what's meant. It is true that there are a number of compensatory measures which are now being implemented if this decision is going to stand by what I hope it does not. But the short part of the long term is that today we have an entertainment orchestra, which has a culture that has an international reputation that people know and which understands precisely the bridge building, which is so important throughout our musical life, between classical and rhythmic, between modern and what we have known for many years, communicated to young and old alike, throughout the country. After all, one can never fully compensate for this through various individual compensations to add a few musicians here and there. The orchestra is something in itself, and if it is abolished, it is the same as limiting the public service activity of Denmark's Radio in my view, and that would be a painful loss to our musical life.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141643	I have to maintain that public service cannot be defined as dependent on one particular activity, one particular orchestra, on Denmark's Radio. That is just what I want to say in a simple way, so it is not an attack on the public service company as such, if Denmark's Radio prioritizes, as we have heard that the management will do. That is why I must reject it. Then I have to say, that is what we have, among other things. • the need to strengthen action against young people, for example: When we ask for a large number of tasks to be solved in addition to those that are being solved today, and at the same time Denmark's Radio imposes a saving, Denmark's Radio must prioritize, and this can affect some of the institutions that Denmark's Radio has.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141750	Then it's mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141754	Thank you for the reply from the Minister. I think I'll go straight to it. After all, the entertainment orchestra is part of the public service in Danmarks Radio. Therefore, it is also directly mentioned in the old public service contract. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister will be in favour of a public service contract that changes the old contract at this level, or, if it is to be there, whether Denmark's Radio should comply with it and therefore also comply with it, so the Entertainment Orchestra will also continue after 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141837	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141840	Now a public service contract has to be negotiated, which is why I cannot stand here in the Danish Parliament. It would not be fair to the party with whom I have to negotiate, namely the Danish Radio management and say how the public service contract is to be drawn up for the coming years on the basis of the entire media agreement. Therefore, there will be changes in the public service contract in relation to the contract currently in force, for the sole reason that we have increased our claims in a number of areas, which Denmark's Radio has had to take into account in the contract circle of the eight parties. This is therefore a negotiating situation which I must take into account that I must be able to take care of, which is why I cannot stand in the Chamber for weeks before that debate begins and say how it will end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141932	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022141934	Well, as a starting point, we have a media settlement where we have cut the Danish Radio's budget by 74 million. kr. All over the place, so it's almost 4 billion. kr., we give to Danmarks Radio. That is why I think that when we talk about the public service contract, we who have helped to make this settlement should perhaps come across, so that we can really play with it when the public service contract is to be renewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142007	There is a good tradition for that too. In other words, as I remember from the times I have been with you, there is also a dialogue between the Minister and the parties to the agreements on the content of the public service contract. But in the end, the agreement between the Minister and Danmarks Radio is concluded but the parties will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142026	Sir. Lars Barfoed for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142034	I do not know whether this is the end of the story. That is at least a new question, one might say. President There were 1⁄2 minutes to the last round of this question to the original questioner that is what the rules are). I was not aware of this at all; it is rare to have more speaking time than was expected. President No, no, but that's the rules. But you can also refrain from using them). No, no, I don't, because I think it's important to follow up on that. Now the Minister is saying that this contact must be negotiated and that the Minister is in charge. The rest of us must be consulted, but in the end we have nothing to say, because it is the Minister who decides. Let us now have that dialogue. However, it is strange that you can make a decision and start executing it on Denmark's Radio, because I understand that the musicians in question have got their note before that contract is changed. I simply do not understand how the Danish Radio's management can dispose of directly contrary to a contract without that contract being changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142137	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142139	I assume that Denmark's Radio thinks in the same way as I do, and that is the following: When a decision has been taken on an economic framework, the politicians who have made the decision expect Denmark's Radio to implement the initiatives needed to keep the economic framework in place for the next four years. What Danish Radio does is that they act with due care, because of course they need the savings to work from the beginning of the year. That's why I can't imagine them acting the way they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142213	That concludes this question. But the next question is also addressed to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Lars Barfoed with Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142214	The next question is also addressed to the Minister of Culture by Lars Barfoed with Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142220	Thank you. Given that the public service is about being where the market is not, is it not strange that Denmark's Radio is investing in areas such as sport and young people, where the market for television is very much present, while saving precisely in a place where the commercial television market will never be able to carry out the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142238	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142248	I'm most happy when I can agree with Mr. Knox. Lars Barfoed, because we are bound to settle, and that is why I am sorry that I have to clarify with regard to the interpretation which Mr. Lars Barfoed will be joining us on public service. It's not just about being where the market can't be. That is an overly narrow definition of public service, and that is why you have to look at the radio and television legislation, § 10, where there is a very full description of what the public service is. I am quite convinced that Mr. Lars Barfoed knows it very well. It is about providing the general public with a wide range of programmes and services, news dissemination, information, education, art and entertainment. I even believe that in the recent media agreement we have added another category, namely debate. It is about striving for quality, versatility and diversity. It is about being impartial and objective, and so on. There are many definitions of what needs to be done, but above all there is a long list of different types of programmes. That is why it is not enough to say that Denmark's Radio should only be where the market cannot be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142359	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142402	Then, on the other hand, I agree with the Minister that it is not enough to define public service. Now there are limited text options when it comes to formulating questions here; then it has to be simplified a little. I would now like to point out that this is also a question, although it is not the full legal definition, of being where the market is not present. It is important for us that we have a cultural community-building institution which is present where commercial television channels are not present and which offers something to the public, regardless of whether some people are willing to pay for advertising being right ahead of or right after those broadcasts, so that you can make money on it. It is important that we can communicate culture and debate and news and everything else, without having to take commercial interests into account. It is important for our culture and for the formation of our society, and that is why I say that let me say that it is also about being where the market is not present. When you look at Denmark's Radio's priorities, you see that it is among other things. is sport, young people, all sorts of things that commercial television channels would like to broadcast, for example. a competition about which amateurs are best and maybe once could become skilled musicians. It costs, I don't know how much, but really, very much money to have, for example. such a broadcast running year after year. This is done at the expense of professional musicians who, for decades to the Danes, have delivered qualified, professional music, built a bridge between generations, built a bridge between music types. It is a strange priority that just the same thing as the Entertainment Orchestra, which no private television channel could lift, is removed while continuing to give priority to what is actually in competition with private commercial television channels, which can easily lift that part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142554	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142603	I fully agree that one of the categories of programme surfaces which Denmark's Radio is obliged to broadcast is, of course, music. I fully agree with that. This does not mean in principle that Denmark's Radio itself must have the institutions that deliver the music. If one now imagined that the district orchestras were as large as the Royal Chapel, that is, with 125 musicians, and we had five district orchestras, then perhaps they could deliver a lot of the music that Denmark's Radio could convey on its programme surfaces. I am just saying that it is not written in some places on the Moses tablets or other important places that there must be a certain number of orchestras on Danmarks Radio in order to meet the public service requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142652	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142655	No, but it does say in the contract that there must be an entertainment orchestra. But let's just leave it at that. We'll get back to that. But we have written, for example. in our media agreement that Danmarks Radio should not compete with private actors where it does not serve a public service purpose. That means that there is something to be left to the private market, to commercial television channels. We must concentrate on what is a public service. That is why I think it is a strange priority to save an entertainment orchestra, which is at least one of the most important examples of public service and has such an invaluable impact on Danish musical life. You pack that up with a single decision at some management savings meeting, and then you give priority to everything else. I think that is a strange priority, and that is just what I would like the Minister to address himself to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142750	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142753	After all, it is Denmark's Radio's job to provide public service to all age groups in Denmark. Therefore, they also have to have a programme interface in Denmark's Radio that can capture all different age groups. What I prefer to watch on television is not what my grandchildren prefer to watch on television. Therefore, there must be something for both groups and for many other kinds of groups. That is why it is important for me to emphasise that there must be diversity. When we have said at political level that more needs to be done to get hold of young people, Denmark's Radio must also look for what can get young people in, so that they also get a news service that suits them, so that they can hang around, as it is said in the professional language, at the TV and do not disappear when the television news appears.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142847	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142852	I think I will address the Minister's earlier reply, in which the Minister said that Denmark's Radio has shown due diligence in abolishing the Entertainment Orchestra. That is why I should like to ask: is that right? Because they say they save 30 million. kr. It costs 50 million per year, but not least because of the staff employed by civil servants. kr. plus 5 million. kr., which is being transferred to other orchestras. That's 55 million. kr. in expenditure. Then the Entertainment Orchestra has many concerts where they get ticket revenue. All in all, it will cost Danmarks Radio as much money as for a whole 4-year period to close the Entertainment Orchestra now, and a 4-year period fits with the media settlement. So as a starting point I would like to ask: is it not true that, over a four-year period, no money is really saved in Denmark's Radio by closing the entertainment orchestra?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142954	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022142956	I wasn't prepared to excel in numbers, so I can't specifically answer Jørgen Arbo-Bæhrne-Bæhr's question. I have to say that Denmark's Radio has a management task, and that is to dispose of the funds made available to Danmarks Radio during the next four-year period, and they must organise the way they organise themselves, the priority they do so that they can meet the requirements imposed by the media agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143027	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143029	My starting point is an answer which the Minister himself has given Mr. Anders Samuelsen. Since the Minister is now talking about district orchestras, can they fulfil what the Entertainment Orchestra is fulfilling today? After all, the entertainment orchestra plays for all the movies and many series... just for 1864... is nine tenths of the music played by the Entertainment Orchestra. And will Denmark's Radio take care of the regional scenes? They are self-employed, so Denmark's Radio cannot assume that regional scenes can play music for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143107	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143110	Part of the news in the media agreement we concluded just before the summer break shows that we are requiring Denmark's Radio to give priority to the regions. That is why we say in the agreement that Denmark's Radio must not save on the P4 stations around the country because we want to strengthen the regional supply. We have also asked in another part of the media agreement that there should be more culture from the regions around Denmark on the Danish Radio programme interface. This means that Denmark's Radio must go out and get hold of cultural life. This includes the district orchestras. It can neither replace the Entertainment Orchestra nor the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra, but it can help to convey the culture that is taking place in the country to the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143203	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143209	I just have to say in conclusion that we are not finished discussing this. We also need to discuss public service contracts. I am about someone as I also said before, that we have a strong Danish Radio, and that we have a strong cultural institution such as Denmark's Radio, which can communicate what the commercial market cannot. Although this is not the whole definition of public service, it is an important part of my understanding of it. I believe that if the resolution stands, it is a cultural scandal. I mean, it's an expression of a Danish Radio that then completely fails its role and doesn't understand its importance in this society when you make such decisions. I believe that you are undermining your own meaning and existence in this society if you start to operate more and more as if you were a commercial television channel that is just interested in hijacking as many viewers as possible and do not understand what the meaning of having a public service channel is. I find it deeply disturbing that this is the case, and I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143317	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143321	Now I thought we had kept the debate in a reasonable tone. I'd like to say to Mr. Lars Barfoed, that I fundamentally disagree with Denmark's Radio's credibility as a public service station depends on whether the Danish Radio's entertainment orchestra is there or not. I really, really appreciate the Entertainment Orchestra myself, and a lot of people do. But there are many other musical branches that do not have that option at all. folk music, which I also very much appreciate. It does not have the same attention on Denmark's Radio. Should we go around and find all sorts of cultural areas that do not have the same position in Denmark's Radio as orchestral and musical life, and say that Denmark's Radio does not fulfil its obligations? People's music is a huge popular tradition. Fanoe has a fantastic program and can a lot that we could enjoy throughout Denmark. We should export this to Copenhagen, Denmark's Radio, so that Denmark's Radio could fulfil its public service. But that's not how we think every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143424	Then we're done with this question. I would like to thank the Minister for Culture, who has also responded to the questions that have been raised today, and to Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed, who has received answers to the two questions he has asked. We move on to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, where questions have been asked by Flemming Damgaard Larsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143440	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143447	Thank you. The question is: how does the Minister intend to ensure that the affected citizens from the storm river in December 2013, who are still stuck in a very unsustainable situation, receive the necessary psychosocial support from municipalities and regions to which they are entitled, so that they do not have long-term but, yet again, can become good, resourceful citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143512	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143516	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that this has been a hard time for all who had to leave their homes in December 2013 because of the storm river. Of course, it affects both children and adults when you live in uncertainty about when you can again play in your own room or sit in your own living room. When families are hit by accidents like storms, there are a number of conditions that apply and where, as Minister for Social Affairs, I am actually not the right person to speak. This is among other things. the question of our preparedness in emergency situations, private insurance, the possibility of obtaining compensation and the possibility of receiving, for example. psychological assistance under the Health Act, if you need it. I think the questioner is quite aware of this, so I am addressing the help and support that can be given under the Service Act when people need it because of mental difficulties or social problems. First of all, I would like to stress that the municipalities must decide on aid and support, regardless of whether the need has arisen as a result of a storm flood or another event. Municipalities must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to obtain free advice. The aim is to prevent social problems and to help the citizen overcome immediate difficulties. When the municipalities advise, they should also be aware of whether the citizen needs help after e.g. Health Act. If, due to severe mental difficulties and social problems, you need support in everyday life, the municipality must decide on it. Social education can help prevent the problems from becoming chronic. In the case of a family with children and young people in difficulty in the family, the municipality must offer family-oriented advice, but also decide on specific assistance and support for the child or young person if needed. Here too, preventive action is needed so that the family can be helped to cope with social problems. Finally, I would like to say, and also reiterate, that assistance and support under the Services Act are given in the light of needs and not in the light of the reasons for this. I have full confidence that the municipalities are aware of this and, of course, also comply with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143727	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143730	Thank you for your answer. Now it has become apparent that the material damage has not been the only serious consequences of the storm. The waiting period and the many unanswered questions have had and continue to have major consequences for the mental health of those affected. Practising doctors from Jyllinge have stated in the release from DR2, which was: "DR2 Investigators: When the storm hits, said that the storm river has major health consequences for the affected citizens and that they do not know about opportunities and assistance that they can offer to citizens. At the same time, an expert who has worked on the consequences of the fireworks disaster in Seest at Kolding concludes that citizens who were exposed to a disaster and who subsequently have to fight hard and long to get their homes and everyday life again can get post-traumatic stress. I myself have been told on several occasions how the affected have had to beg and ask for emergency aid and have heard stories about citizens who have been left to themselves because they have not had the strength to seek help. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister believe that, in the light of the experience and opinions we have from doctors and experts on the health consequences of disasters, it is necessary to offer further psychosocial assistance and support to those affected by the storm, and how will the Minister ensure that municipalities and regions actually do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143857	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022143901	It'd be pretty fair somewhere if Mr. Cole didn't do it. Flemming Damgaard Larsen before the question had drawn attention to the broadcast in question, because then I could actually have seen it and, of course, also dealt with the opinions of the experts and doctors. I have not seen the broadcast in question on DR2, which is why, by its very nature, I cannot deal with precisely the specific statements. But what I can say is that if you have some challenges in life, you have the opportunity to go to your doctor and get subsidies for psychotherapy. If you have any further problems, it may be, as Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen is talking about post-traumatic stress disorder, which is really, really serious, i.e. experiences of the character or something similar to it.Of course you can turn to the municipality and get help. There the municipality will not look at what the cause has been, but what the need is for the concrete and for the family, and of course offer help according to the conditions that now exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144000	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144003	I do not demand that the Minister should make a specific reference to the broadcast in question, because I would have mentioned it before, of course. I am simply referring to the expert opinions that have come as the basis for my question. What is my point is that many of those who have been affected have not had the strength to go to the municipality or to the health service themselves in order to get that help. That is why I ask the Minister whether the Minister will ensure that municipalities and regions which have health care will even be far more exorbitant and do outreach work in the defined area, as we are actually talking about here. Because a lot of people are in trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144048	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144052	Now the questioner is asking me again to move into the area of the Minister for Health, and I cannot, by nature, do that. But what I know is that the municipalities are, of course, ready with the range of offers they may now have for those who have challenges in life. I also know that if you have some problems, you have the opportunity, like every other citizen in this country, to get help to solve those problems. The doctors can do that, among other things. they may also refer to the municipality and to the case officer of the person concerned. We all have a case officer if the accident is out, and then you have a range of offers. This does not apply only to individuals. I know that both the rapporteur and I are concerned about the whole family as such, and there, of course, the family also has the opportunity to get help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144132	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144135	Finally, I would like to ask whether the Minister will address the municipalities where there are areas hit hard by the storm river and ask them to do some outreach work so that we can pick up those people who are still suffering and who may suffer because no help was given in time. Will the Minister see to it that there is some out-of-court work going on with these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144159	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144208	I think it is important, before taking a step which can be drastic, in relation to what you are setting in motion, to go in and examine what the need is. The rapporteur refers to a DR2 broadcast which investigates the storm river. I haven't seen it. I would ask my ministry to investigate the matter and if there is a need, then it may of course be said that you could contact the municipalities concerned and point out that there is a challenge there. It is not unusual for a minister to do so. I just sent out a shepherd letter to all municipalities on 11 September on a number of other matters. But I think, in all fairness, that it is important to see that broadcast and to look at the extent of the problem before resorting to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144250	That brings the matter to a close, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Flemming Damgaard Larsen. The Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs will be here at least one more moment, because the next question is also for him, and that is from Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144306	Thank you for that, President, and welcome to the chair. This is the first time I have seen the Enhedslisten in the chair. My question to the Minister is quite simple: what is the status of the government's social 2020 targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144320	Then it is the Minister who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144323	I'm sorry I forgot to welcome the chair. The status of the social 2020 objectives is that the government is currently working on good and constructive technical cooperation with practitioners, institutional leaders, experts and KL. Together, we find and give priority to the responses to how to reorganise social action for society's most vulnerable citizens; a change that means that we are better at doing the right thing. The government's social goals focus on what we will achieve with the effort. It makes us sharper and sharpens our interest in what works. Therefore, the objectives themselves are driving a very, very important development forward. Contrary to, unfortunately, some people's error, we have of course from the start surgicalized the targets so that everyone knows what to aim for. Only one out of the nine specific objectives awaits operationalisation, and this is quite simply because it is developed under the auspices of the reform of primary schools. In the spring of 2015, the government agreed with KL to support the objectives, as part of the 2015 Economic Agreement. be done by focusing on the application of the methods and interventions that work best. It has also been agreed to take stock of the social 2020 objectives in the context of annual economic agreements. In addition, the objectives are an integral part of the government's social policy. In the Finance Act and the Rate Pool for 2014, the government has prioritised homeless people, drug addicts and vulnerable children and young people. A review of the foster family area has been carried out and a new social oversight has been created, which started on 1 January 2014. In addition, in its presentation of the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement, the Government has launched a number of concrete initiatives in the areas covered by the 2020 objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144515	Then it's Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144518	Well, thank you for a very long answer to one, one might say, for once very brief questions. But it's a big area. There are nine concrete objectives in the government's social 2020 plan. In connection with the opening speech, the Prime Minister said: Now we have implemented a social 2020 plan and I quote quite correctly. I have to say that I was somewhat surprised by the wording: we have now implemented a social 2020 plan. The truth is, in September 2013, the government presented these social 2020 goals in a great press conference. But what surprises me is that, in the context of these nine specific objectives, it is not really possible to follow up developments. The most important thing, then, when we set targets, must be that we have also made clear on each of the nine objectives, how to put it into practice, how to measure it, how often we measure it, and that is what is very much lacking, I hope the Minister will agree with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144637	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144640	There was no question, so there's free play on my part. I fully agree that this was a short question, and therefore because it is a very, very important area it obviously requires an in-depth answer. I think it is a completely misguided criticism, and I should not hide that. The social 2020 objectives, as I also said, are about reorganising the social effort so that the results of the effort will be better for the benefit of who? For those we must constantly remember and hold on to, namely for the weakest in society. This does not mean that we are not following developments. We do. I have a paper on that here, and I shall of course share that with Mrs Ellemann. There are precisely the figures for the various objectives, except for what I mentioned about primary school. However, as regards the proportion of placements, the figure is expected to be published in 2014. I have to say again: this started in 2013 and we already have the figures for 2014. We have figures for the proportion of homeless people they are published. The proportion of citizens returning to the shelter has been published. The proportion of women in women's crisis centres, which is also an objective, has been published. The number of drug-related deaths is expected to be published during 2014. It is an expression of: We had a baseline in 2011, we come with the targets in 2013, and of course the different figures come on the way. They are doing so now, they actually did so under the previous government, so there has actually been little development there, other than that we have now set some 2020 targets, precisely in order to have an ambitious social policy, and we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144817	Then it's Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144820	However, we do not get good results in a very important area by simply setting targets. You have to be very, very sharp on the whole palette in terms of what the bets are. What exactly is being done to achieve the reductions that are difficult to disagree with? It's strange that in 2013 the government came up with these big goals and said that there was a baseline back from 2011, and then fails by not being able to flesh out how far we got in 2013. The lack of results cannot be satisfactory for the current Minister for Social Affairs. So, the latest inventory I have seen shows that at least six of the results are missing in 2013, i.e. the milestones: how far has been achieved, how is the effort going?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144916	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022144919	Again, I have to ask the questioner to keep a close eye on the fact that this is about the most vulnerable. After all, in all its banality, it requires a policy to set objectives, as the questioner also says, and we have just done so. In addition to the homeless strategy, I can tell you that we have made it possible for the municipalities to provide help for rent payments and to strengthen debt advice, and with the 2014 Finance Act, initiatives have been launched to improve housing conditions and make a more reasonable rent for young people. In the area of drug abuse, we have also provided this package with funds for drug abuse treatment through evidence-based methods, which I know the questioner is very interested in. The new social monitoring system has been set up, which will help to improve quality so that we can achieve our objectives. We can stand here and discuss whether there are six or eight or nine, and I am happy to do so, and I am happy to come here and do so. But what is important to me and to the government is to keep the focus on what is most important, namely to hand out solutions for the most weak citizens in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145035	Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145037	But for me, it is still very, very unsatisfactory that it is very concrete to say that there are nine areas here in the broad social field, nine areas where it is specifically said that this should be the case by 2020, so many percent of one or the other or the third, and when we stand in 2013 and ask for a concrete answer about how things have gone and how far they have come, then you cannot answer. You can't account for the number. It is therefore worrying when you say, which is quite reasonable, that, for example, we should not forget that this is the case. At least half of those drug addicts who complete a course of treatment for drug abuse must either become drug-free or experience a reduction in drug use. There you say at least half, you measure it in 2011, and then subsequent statements have not been made. At least that is the latest inventory we have received. It may be that the minister has something up to date that he hasn't shared with us here, and then it shares a bit sporadicly. At least I look forward to receiving it if there are any new updates. But so far I do not have very good results of a whole lot of good intentions, and Danish social policy needs more than good intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145151	Then it is the Minister for the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145154	Well, Danish social policy obviously needs more than just teasing and small numbers. And then just for the record, when we are talking about figures: it is absolutely true that we had a baseline in 2011, and then the questioner will also have a figure for 2013, for example in the area of the homeless. It is the case that when you start something from 2013, for example. in the homeless area, it will be measured every two years. This baseline is our starting point, and I'd like to share this with the questioner. Placements that break down have been published. Homeless people have been released. The proportion of citizens returning to the shelter has been published. The proportion of women in shelters has been published. The number of drug-related deaths is expected to be published in 2014, and we can continue to do so. What is just important to me and the government is to have a social policy, have some goals and have something to measure us on. We have, we have set a lot of things in motion, and that is what Danish social policy needs, namely to get some good results that are particularly beneficial to the most vulnerable in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145315	Then we're done with this question, at least for today. Thank you to the Minister, there are no more questions for him and also to Mrs Karen Ellemann. We must move on to the Minister for Business and Growth, and the first question to him is by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145317	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145338	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the fact that the banks, or at least certain banks, do not indicate, in relation to a client's investment in the investment fund recommended by the bank, in the purchase note or in advance, what amount is paid to the advisory bank, on the one hand, and on the other hand, annually thereafter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145405	Then it is the Minister for Industry and Growth to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145408	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new President. However, I wonder how it has been possible to get through the Rules without wearing a tie, but we can take that up at a later stage. I shall now turn to the answer to the question. I would like to start by saying that it is highly questionable if there are banks that do not provide their customers with the necessary information, including on commissions, in relation to customers making investments in the investment funds recommended by the banks. Thus, it follows directly from the investor protection notice that banks must inform the customer of any promotional commission before the customer enters into an agreement to invest. The Order is supplemented by an industry agreement concluded in 2012 by the Ministry of Business and Growth between the Consumer Council, the Danish Shareholders' Association and the Danish Finance Council. The Industry Agreement clearly states that banks must inform their customers of the existence and rate of the intermediation commission received by the bank from the IFs. Information must be provided through investment advice in the bank and shown on the bank's website. In addition, the information shall be included in the annual fee statement or inventory. The Order and the Industry Agreement ensure that it is transparent for customers what they pay in relation to the costs of their investments, both prior to the investment itself and on an ongoing basis every year thereafter. The FSA shall monitor compliance with the rules set out in the notice. If it turns out that there is a bank that does not comply with the rules, supervision has the possibility of intervening and issuing an injunction to comply with the rules. I also expect the Finance Council to keep self-righteous justice among its members and to ensure that they comply with the trade agreement that the Finance Council has helped to conclude. Finally, I would like to mention that I have set up a working group which is currently looking at the current model of dissemination fees. The working group highlights possible alternative fee models and alternative models for information on costs and dissemination fees, including the advantages and disadvantages of opting out advice to avoid paying dissemination fees, as well as developments at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145627	Thank you to the Minister and also thank you for your welcome. I have read the rules on indecent clothing very carefully, and I have not yet seen anyone in this Chamber who has violated them. But if that happens, I'd be happy to intervene. I promise. However, I shall give the floor to Mr McMillan-Scott. Preben Bang Henriksen, who follows up on the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145645	I will sign for the Minister's reply, including the fact that a working group has been set up to look at these things, because I think that is really necessary for a number of reasons. It is assumed that there are 800,000 Danes who have invested in investment funds, so it is, if I may say so, a family product among those who save and each pays an average of DKK 3,400. a year for advice, although many of them never take off or change their investment profile or discuss anything with the bank counselor. So there's something to get to grips with. This is if not a general problem, then at least a general product. When I bring it up here, it is because there are more who send settlements from financial institutions to me, I have some of them here, and at least there is not on the settlement itself in connection with the purchase any information about how much the bank gets in kickback commission, and I think that is probably a relevant information. There is, of course, room to disclose trade costs, which are typically some very, very small amount. However, what is paid in kickback commission to the bank, i.e. what the investment fund takes from the customers' funds and sends to the so-called consultative bank, is a significantly higher amount, which is usually up to 0.75-1 per cent. of the investment. So it is large amounts, and I think it is important that we as a customer are informed about this. I cannot help thinking about what else is of information obligations, including in the banking sector, which, moreover, surpasses financial institutions, which do not disclose exactly the correct interest rate on the wall, etc., and what surpasses other professions if they have referral agreements. I know from lawyers, accountants and the like that there are very powerful sanctions if you make money from references, but there is no such thing here. So I think it is really, really good if the Minister will see to it that this subject is discussed. But I also think it is important that we not only demand information, as I hear it when I listen to the Minister, but that we also specify what kind of information, in other words that it should be done in writing so that the customer can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145908	Then it is the minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022145910	Thank you. Well, I would say that the way the rules are being drafted now actually makes them very clear, fine and good. This also applies to the trade agreements that have been made. What is unfortunate is that if you do not comply with the agreements you have made yourself. I think that the questioner and I should make the joint effort that, if we have good examples, we will send them to the FSA, the Financial Council and others who have been involved in this and ask them to tighten up in this area. Because it is perfectly reasonable that people, when investing in a product, should be able to have an overview of what they are actually paying for. So we cannot in any way disagree with that. What we are trying to do is, of course, look at whether we can give some alternatives to the way in which we invest, because I agree that many of the mutual funds are very popular and that in some places there has been some criticism that they are equally legally passive. But now we are also trying to give some alternatives to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150001	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150004	I just want to sign and say that it's not because I object to the banks making money, because somehow they're gonna have to figure out how to make money. This is one of the ways. What I just want is for the customer to be luminously clear what it is you are paying in costs on these products, because it is actually very well camouflaged today. I have to say that in the work that is taking place, it might be possible to settle for England and Holland, for example, where there is a ban on demanding these things. You do not have to go this far for me, just to ensure that there is the necessary information so that the customer knows what the customer is buying, and thus the customer can also compare with the product in other financial institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150043	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150046	I would very much like to pass the inspiration on to the working group. I'm sure they can listen here today. In other words, we have a common purpose, and that is that people know exactly what they are going to do when they invest in a product, and then they must be able to opt out and opt out. I guess that's the way it must be. But in no way can we disagree there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150104	Thank you. That concludes the question. This means that we can move on to Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, who also has a question for the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150115	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150117	Thank you for that, President. And the question is: Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that there are citizens who have not yet received a final clarification from the Storm Council or their insurance company on their case, after the storm river Bodil hit Denmark back in December 2013, and therefore are still stuck in a very unsustainable situation, which challenges both their ability to cope with everyday challenges, their work and, not least, their mental and physical health?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150149	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150151	Thank you for the question and the opportunity to do a preliminary status here in the Folketing on top of the storm that hit the country in many places in December 2013. And let me say at the outset that, of course, I would have liked all cases to have been closed by now. I am aware that many people have lost their homes and many are in a very unhappy situation. They all have my greatest sympathy and my greatest sympathy. But it is also important to bear in mind that from the period when the storm flood hit, and looking forward to now, we have had many times to change the rules. I am sure the questioner will also remember that we have had to make several changes all the way through. Fortunately, it has been by a broad majority in the Folketing, and all the changes we have made here have helped to improve the conditions of those who were victims of this storm flood. That is why it is true that, although we would have liked to see all the amendments we have made adopted as soon as possible, they also had to be dealt with properly so that we could be sure that they hit the best possible way. So it has taken some time to get some of the rules in place. That is why we stand here 10 months after the storm and see that insurance companies report back, that over 90 per cent. Now it's finished. But the last ones are missing. And what is enlightened to me is that there is a good explanation for that, namely that they are complicated and extensive, or there is another good explanation for why they have not yet been decided. I know that the Council Secretariat is in continuous dialogue with insurance companies to speed up the unfinished business, and I can only call on all insurance companies here to do their utmost to resolve the very last cases in relation to it. I am, of course, only satisfied when the last cases are settled, but we must also respect the fact that we ourselves in this Parliament have been involved in changing the rules on several occasions and that we have therefore also helped to extend some of the length of the proceedings ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150401	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150403	Thank you for your answer. It is true, as the Minister says, that ten months after the Bodil storm ravaged, there are still citizens living in vans and containers who have not received a final clarification on their insurance case. And recently the DR 2 broadcast was broadcast by DR investigating: When the storm hits, which made it visible that the storm flood of December is not yet a closed chapter and how the affected still struggles to get their everyday life back. And that's one of them. That is what the Minister says about 10%. The insurance companies, as the Minister also mentioned, are in the spotlight and not for nothing. As the months have passed, we have slowly been able to separate the sheep from the goats and see which insurance companies have really put their hands on their customers. And it is a little strange that some insurance companies can find out, even though there have been changes here in the Folketing and others cannot. I would like to mention two insurance companies by name, which are the ones that are at the forefront, in that things are in order, and that is Tryg and Alka, whereas the other insurance companies do not have their papers in order, they do not have their relationship in order, and that is very regrettable. Time has shown that they have left their customers in the lurch and let them down by picking and dragging things over. As recently as yesterday I received an email from someone who for over a month has repeatedly, many times, phoneically contacted his insurance company without any response at all. That is simply unacceptable. Against this background, I would like to ask what initiatives the Minister will take with regard to the Storm Council and those insurance companies that have not yet given their customers final clarification so that those people can move on with their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150551	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150554	I would say that this is interesting information if it is true that there really is such a high quality difference in how companies deal with matters, and that is where we must go out together and praise the two companies which are at the forefront here. It is a good advertisement to get if they have actually done things properly. I just don't have the guts to sign that it's like that. I have not been able to deal with all these individual cases. I can do nothing but turn to the storm council and ask them what it looks like. They say over 90 percent. is finished fine. They also say that now we should have the last 10%. Into, and apparently there are some complications and something else in relation to those cases. So we are in the process of moving forward, and it is clear that patience is not infinite here. We must, of course, have something done about it at some point. But that is why I also urge you to hurry and finish it for the sake of those families.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150654	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150655	That is very good, but it is just strange, even very strange, that a few insurance companies, and I would like to repeat the names, Tryg and Alka, have the papers in order and make sure that their cases are closed, because it is the same set of rules they need that all the other insurance companies need. I have seen a great many reports and received a great many inquiries about the other insurance companies, and the way they behaved and behaved is totally unacceptable. They delay matters, they do not respond to enquiries, they have seriously wrong procedures, etc. etc. And that is why I would like the Minister to address seriously the claims of insurance companies that are not Tryg and Alka. And I understand that the Minister will do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150744	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150747	Yes, I will pass on the call from here directly to those insurance companies that have not done so properly, with the reservation that I did not have time to look specifically at the case-file, as Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has done. But I would very, very much like to do that. And I will also do so via the Council Secretariat with a direct call and an invitation to hurry to finish these cases. Because it is about people, it is about families' lives, it is about the opportunity to move forward in relation to their everyday lives, and it is important to get this settled. So all due respect for the fact that we have to finish this work quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150822	Then the final question by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150825	Now we are in the situation where the inhabitants of Jutland have been subjected to heavy rainfall and large water increases, and at the same time we are also talking about the likelihood that there will be more and more of such violent weather phenomena. In the future, it will be even more important for citizens to be able to rely on insurance companies and the Storm Council to do their job quickly and efficiently and, above all, to cooperate with the citizens concerned, as has not been the case for many around Roskilde Fjord and elsewhere. In view of the situation in Jutland, I would therefore like to ask what the Minister will do to ensure that the
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150921	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022150923	It's just that every time there's been these incidents, we get smarter and learn from it. One of the things we did when we reached a broad agreement in the Folketing was that we among other things. set up a working group to look at all the experiences we have in connection with storm Bodil. And it will, of course, all other things being equal, benefit these poor people who have been affected by it, up in North Jutland, because that means that we already have some experience of how to deal with these matters. So in this way we have already tackled this, by setting up this working group, which sits down and ensures that what is the right procedures is confirmed, also forward-looking, for the benefit and benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151003	Then the question is closed. I would like to thank the Minister for Industry and Growth and, of course, Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen. The next question has been put to the Minister for the Environment, and this has been asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151018	Thank you. And the first question is: how does the Minister think that the Minister's plans to stop both spraying and fertilizing Section 3 areas are in line with the growth agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151031	Then it is the Minister for the Environment who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151036	I think it is important to start by saying that our § 3 nature is one of the most vulnerable nature we have in Denmark at all. That's where thousands of our rare species of animals and plants, our insects, our butterflies, our amphibians live; some of those that we have an obligation to protect, who live in our bogs and our lakes, on our overdrives and meadows, which this § 3 concept thus covers. After all, we have an objective, even an international commitment, that we must stop the decline in what we call biodiversity, in other words the diversity of species. And if we are to achieve that goal, it is also important that we dare to take steps, and also have the political courage and the will to take steps that will actually make a difference to our most vulnerable nature. This proposal, which we are now putting forward, for a ban on fertilization and spraying on the section 3 areas, will make a significant difference to our vulnerable nature, as you might say, following the decision taken at the end of the 1990s in this area. I believe that this proposal is in good harmony with the other initiatives taken by the government in order to ensure the balance in which, on the one hand, we want to give the industry good conditions of growth and, on the other hand, we want to give nature the best opportunities to develop. I think that is for everyone's benefit and joy. We want to ensure good conditions for the growth of agriculture while at the same time ensuring good development opportunities for nature. During 2014, we have launched a series of growth initiatives that follow up on the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission on the growth part, you might say, and there were also a number of recommendations that dealt with the natural area, precisely to ensure the balance that I am talking about here. That is why I think it is quite natural that we should now follow up on some of the nature recommendations that came from the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and here the proposal for a full ban on spraying and fertilizing on section 3 areas was one of the essential proposals of the Commission. It can be said that, although this proposal will have some costs for the industry, indeed, the government's initiatives in general represent a gain for the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151255	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151258	Thank you. Just as the Minister himself mentions in his reply, it will have some costs for the industry. Now I know that it may be difficult to say at this stage what it will actually cost, but it could be that the Minister could tell us here today in the Chamber what it will actually get from the cost of the profession. I have to say that it is of course a great deal of concern, and I am also concerned that in this way some 54,000 hectares of land are actually taken out of service. I am worried that the fact that many farmers really have a worse chance of growth will have a negative impact on the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151356	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151359	I had thought that this was what Mrs Anni Matthiesen would like to ask a few questions about, that is to say, the cost of the profession, so of course I have included that in the preparations here. Let me first say in relation to the 54 000 hectares, that I am well aware that efficient agriculture travels with that figure. It's not a number I recognize. Our calculations show that the ban will affect approx. 35,000 hectares of the total agricultural area, which is 2.6 million. ha. We estimate that it will affect just over 10,000 farms, of which 85%. of farms will be affected on an area less than 5 hectares, i.e. a very small area. This is equivalent to the fact that each farm on average will lose between DKK 5,000. and DKK 7,500. annual.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151446	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151449	Thank you. I know that it may sound like small change and that it may sound like a few areas you now take off for the individual farmer, but we also know that it may suddenly be these small things that make it difficult to keep farming, that it is the last crowns that are drawn from the bottom line that make farming no longer a good business. I have to say that I hear many who say that they are concerned that if you continue to take a piece, and that every time you take some new steps, it really means that they have less farmland to do well with. Doesn't the Minister share those concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151538	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151541	Well, as I said in my introduction, the government is very concerned that we will have a good balance between, on the one hand, securing good conditions for growth for the industry and, on the other hand, ensuring that we live up to the commitment that I think we have to future generations, namely to ensure that they can have natural experiences that are as rich as those we can have today. In other words, we must protect the species that are currently under threat much better than we do today. So I'm very concerned that we find that balance. That is why, in the spring too, the government, with the participation of the Left, has reached an agreement on a growth plan for food, in which, among other things, we go in and look at some of the things that have also been a source of great concern to many farmers. This is, for example, the case. on the Random Zone Act, where we agree to go from 50,000 hectares to 25,000 hectares it is an essential response. We have changed the conversion factor so that with that agreement there was the possibility of 1.5 million more pigs in the Danish stables. So I think we have actually met a great many of the requests that have been made and also the recommendations that have been made with regard to the growth part. But the balance is important to me here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151647	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151650	I think we can agree that balance is important, and I think we can agree with agriculture on that too. I think it is very important that things are balanced. At the same time, however, I can be in doubt whether there can still be a balance, even though the farmer remains the natural care provider. I have to say that in relation to precisely section 3 areas, I believe that there are many places where there may now be a greater risk that the areas will grow. And there I have to ask: where is the balance in terms of caring for nature and also giving room to the different types of insects and plants, if that's the way it all grows? I am glad to hear what the Minister's position is on this. Isn't there a concern that if farmers don't take care of these lands anymore, there will be a fouling?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151745	Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151748	This is something that is being asked about in the next question, but we can take a little advance on the pleasures here. There is nothing in this proposal which prevents us from continuing to graze these lands. There is no ban on this, even in the future. What this proposal is about is that we want to safeguard the areas we have identified as the most vulnerable habitats in Denmark, in other words where we know that the endangered species live, where we know that we are dealing with very special natural values. It does not make sense for me to spray and spread manure, which we know from the research results means that there is a sharp decline in the species that live in those areas. So I think it is a logical consequence that we are now taking the step fully with the nature protection law we have and saying that it must apply to all section 3 areas that we must not be sprayed and fertilised.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151842	Thank you, Minister. Then we're done with question 13. However, we continue with both the Minister for the Environment and Mrs Anni Matthiesen, because Mrs Anni Matthiesen has also asked question 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151854	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: how will the Minister ensure that section 3 areas with a ban on fertilization can continue to be grazed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151902	Then it is the Minister who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022151905	I would like to make it clear once again that this ban, which we are now proposing, against fertilising the § 3 protected natural areas does not change the rules on the manure marketed directly on the fields of grazing animals. So this doesn't mean you have to stop grazing on the land. It will be able to continue as it has been so far. It will continue to be legal. Precisely because grazing can be a very important tool for achieving a varied natural content for these § 3 protected habitat types, the bill also takes account of the fact that grazing can continue to the same extent as it can today. However, the grazing and the manure that the animals place on the land must not lead to a change in the condition of the land, it can be said. So this must continue to be possible. The ban on fertilization and spraying on § 3 protected nature, as I said before, is a very important step for the government in ensuring a more diverse nature in Denmark. I have heard that agriculture has been out to say that now it is not worth grazing these lands any more because nature will then be damaged because there is no longer this nature care. I understand that there may be a risk that there are some areas which, because of this ban on fertilizing, will no longer have the same feed value, so that what lies in it is that now we must not fertilize, and so there is simply too low a feed value to continue this kind of grazing. But I note that researchers at Aarhus University estimate that fertiliser is in most cases worse for nature than if the land is no longer degrassed. So the research shows that manure and spraying cause a marked decline in the species on these areas, and that is what we are going to do about in some of the most valuable natural areas. So if the choice is between grazing or manure, yes, then the researchers say that the natural choice is no fertiliser. That's what I'm dealing with, and there's still a chance to graze these lands, and it's my hope that it will continue on the vast majority of § 3 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152122	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152125	Good. I would like to say that I am pleased to hear that cattle can continue to be used on these lands and that, of course, they can continue to graze. Can the Minister say whether there are any restrictions on how much cattle? And could the Minister also say something about how the Minister thinks that it will affect the daily lives of the farmer in such a way that he may not fertilize the grass on which the cattle are to graze? In the end, that would mean that there could be fewer cattle present on these grazing areas, because when there is no possibility of artificially fertilising the grass along the way, the farmer can of course hope that the cows themselves will deliver the manure as much as possible, but in the end it will probably mean a worse result for the farmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152224	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152228	The aim of this proposal is to ensure that the vulnerable habitats we have in Denmark are not exposed to the spraying and fertilization that we know from the research results that there is a massive decline in these species. This is part of an effort in which we want to ensure that Denmark meets our international commitments for diversity in nature. However, as I said in my reply, I am also aware that what some farmers are saying can reduce the feed value on these areas if we are not allowed to spray and fertilize any longer. It is my hope that they will continue to do so. It may have as a consequence that some more land may have to be used for grazing. I recognize that. But as I said in my answer earlier: if you make a balance of what, from the point of view of nature, is the greatest natural value in, less or no fertiliser or grazing, then it is no fertiliser that has the greatest value for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152327	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152330	I would like the Minister to take a closer look at these research results, which are also mentioned. I wonder how long has research been carried out in this area? Have experimental projects been carried out anywhere? And what exactly is the justification for the reports that the researchers are making?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152350	Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152353	I would very much like to come back with a written reply in order to document these things. There are research results from Aarhus University... they have made this balance... but I would very much like to return to it in the form of a written answer, where we can go a little further into what is at the root of it. However, I think it is also important to bear in mind that we have some specific obligations in relation to our vulnerable nature. On the basis of the Nature Conservation Act, when we made it, we had some exceptions for certain section 3 areas, where we had to continue to fertilise, as had been done so far. That is where we can say that we are now taking the step fully and saying that the nature that has been designated as the most vulnerable, we therefore have a special obligation to look after. We know that spraying and fertilization have a very significant impact on species, and therefore we are ready to take that responsibility on us and ensure that our vulnerable nature is protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152446	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152449	Thank you. As I said earlier, as rounding, I would say: yes, there must of course be a balance between things. I think that what is perhaps also the problem is that in recent years a great many farmers have felt that the screw has been tightened more and more, that there are more and more places where you might have had to grab something. Now I know that, as the Minister himself said, we have had the peripheral area halved, but with the other hand, you can say, you go in and limit the possibility of the operation they have had at least until now on these § 3 areas. I think that is what makes many farmers in these months despair because they are somehow worried about what they are doing about agriculture in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152541	Then there is one last answer from the Minister for the Environment today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152544	I do not think there is any justification for the assertion that is being made here, so that it should have been the case that the screw has just been tightened more and more. The Left itself contributed to the agreement on a growth plan for food, where, I think, we gave agriculture a number of concessions in some of the places where they had pointed out that here we had to look at things again. One of them was the Random Zone Act, which the Left itself was behind, but where we had to acknowledge that it was difficult for us to administer. Now we have changed it and have accepted agriculture in relation to the criticism that has been made there; with a change in the conversion factor we have ensured that 1.5 million more pigs can now be produced in the Danish stables. It's not small things. So I don't think it's a proper presentation to say that the screw just gets tightened more and more. For the government, it is vital that we ensure a balance between, on the one hand, the conditions of growth for our food industry and, on the other hand, ensuring that it can take place in harmony with the commitments we have in terms of nature protection, not only for the sake of the many endangered species, but also for the sake of future generations, who must be able to enjoy as well of the nature that we can today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152649	We thank the Minister for the Environment, and that was the last question that was addressed to the Minister for the Environment for today. And we also thank Anni Matthiesen. Then we have come to the last question in Question Time today, which is to the Minister for Transport, and that has been asked by Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152704	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the momentum in establishing the third Limfjord connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152712	Then the Minister of Transport will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152715	Thank you for the question. In June, as I know the questioner, we in the Green Group in the Conciliation Committee, which consists of the Social Democrats and the Radicals, and of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, agreed to define the lines for a third Limfjord connection in the Egholm line. I have been working on transport policy for many years and, like many others who have also worked on it, I must say that that decision was finally taken! At the same time, we also set aside a sum of 43 million which I thought was absolutely necessary. kr. to a pool which the citizens who live along the line, and who are most affected by it, can seek in order to be expropriated in advance, because we should not have it with people being tied up and we need to solve the specific problems. This means that the Egholm line is now included on the road plan, and this also means that the route is environmentally safe. So the project is now in the road map. It is also the case that it is a project for a sum of considerable size. That is, it can be said, not all projects that reach that far, but it has thus come to be included in the road map and, like all other projects of this type, it is of course also the case that it has to be financed by funds that are put into political agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152845	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022152849	Well, I'm supposed to be the first to sign up to all the parties who helped finally put the line in place. We've been waiting for that so much, and that's just super good. But then it is also important that we do not just get to where the line is in place and there are some who are given the opportunity to have their property pre-explored. It is quite excellent that this happens, but the problem is to come from one side of the Limfjord to the other. That's the problem. Today there are 74,000 cars using the tunnel. The limit is 80,000. This means that we already have what the Road Directorate calls critical congestion in rush hour. In fact, capacity is expected to be exhausted in five years' time. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister sees the establishment of the third Limfjord link. So far, I've heard that it's a good thing that we get this line straight. We fully agree with that. But when I ask a little deeper about this, it should not be a secret that there were some of the rapporteurs who perhaps at the last minute changed their minds and thank you very much for it. But at least they have told the press that when they changed their minds, it was more so that it would now be possible, if I may say so, to satisfy those pilots who could have their properties expunged in advance through line-up. And then we have to wait and see about the connection itself. The latter, I think, is deeply and deeply concerned, and that is why I ask how the Minister's personal attitude is to move forward in this matter. Will the Minister take action and can we expect some action from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153037	Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153040	It is absolutely true that there is tribulation. It is true that there is tribulation. And we can see that the tribulation is getting worse, and it's actually getting acutely worse. That is one of the reasons why it is not a cheap project. It's a big project. But it is also a project that is of great importance, not only for the local area, but for the whole region and thus for the whole of Denmark, and for us to have strong parts of the country in Denmark. But it is also a project which is based on calculations, and it should be borne in mind that it is, of course, calculations of what the internal rate of interest is and what society gets out of the investment that was made in the run-up to and before the crisis really hit us. And the crisis has meant a reduction in traffic. President, is it only one minute I have here? That fg. President (Per Clausen) It is actually only half a minute. There has been an error). Oh, I'm sorry. That fg. President We are just finishing it.) So there is a high return on that project. In other words, it is a healthy project; it is a healthy, transport project that we are dealing with here. And that is why it is included in the road map. Once the projects are included in the road map, they are part of the state road plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153150	I'm sorry, but there's a mistake when you're new to this job. The Minister of Transport, it's okay. ) The Minister is of course happy to have extra speaking time, but it is boring to be interrupted along the way. We move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153205	Yeah, well, I gotta admit, it's a 7 billion-dollar project. kr., and it may be difficult to account for in 1⁄2 minute. Nevertheless, I am trying to repeat that the Minister and I agree on how important this is for the province. Can we go back to the northern Jutlanders and say that we can expect the government to do something in relation to getting the construction law in place in relation to moving forward? How do we proceed in the view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153234	Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153236	Another thing we did in June was to prioritize it here and now acute tribulation. If all of a sudden 7 billion came in... kr. I don't think it's gonna happen. We've got a tribulation here and now, and we handled it by granting almost 40 million. kr. for additional tracks south of the Limfjord tunnel to improve capacity here and now. The project has now been studied and ready for designing and then installations so here and now something is happening there. In addition, as the questioner himself says, 7 billion. kr. This is not the amount of money available to me at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153315	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153318	I shall just finish and say that it will be a bit of the same drawer, because I am also fully aware that it is 40 million. kr., which goes to the immediate problems. It's great, but we really need to get on with this project. It is estimated that it will take 7-8 years to build the project, and I have explained critical tribulation just now, so I have to ask the Minister to repeat straight to the end: what is the momentum, from the point of view of the Minister, in this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153346	Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153349	Now it is fortunate that the Left itself is part of the green conciliation circle, which is one of the broadest conciliation circles we have here in the Folketing, where we translate the money as there is, and it is a conciliation circle that was made under the previous government and lasts until 2020. It is the one to which I am responsible for directing and convening meetings, and in which we therefore took responsibility for determining the lines and making some concrete things here and now. But it is also the case that, of course, I cannot promise anything, because I think it would be unfine and dishonest of me if I stood and promised to all kinds of projects in Denmark for many billions of dollars, because that money is not on the table here and now. But it is part of the road map that we have established a route, and we do, because it is a healthy project.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153427	I thank the Minister for Transport and thank him. Preben Bang Henriksen. That concludes Question Time. There are no more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141022153439	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 23 October 2014, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
