ParlaMint-DK_20141024100001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Torst Schack Pedersen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on sectoral merger control in the telecommunications market). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 29 September 2014, it was decided that the responsibility for the law on remuneration and pensions, etc. for ministers, with the exception of Section 8 of the Act on the duties of ministers and Section 9 on the appointment of officials to ministers, transfer from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance per year. 1 October 2014 and that the responsibility for tasks under the Law on ferry services as regards the voyage of Christiansø is transferred from the Minister of Transport to the Minister of Defence. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 29 September 2014 states that the responsibility for the law on remuneration and pensions, etc. For ministers, see Legislative Decree No. 273 of 20 April 2004, as last amended by Law No. 480 of 30 May 2012, with the exception of Section 8 of the Act on the duties of ministers and Section 9 on the appointment of officials to ministers, shall be transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance per year. 1 October 2014. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Hel Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 29 September 2014 states that the Resort Responsibility for Tasks under the Ferry Services Act, j f Legislative Decree no. 915 of 27 August 2008, with the exception of Paragraph 2 of the Act. 5 and 6, § 4 and § 5 para. 3, 3. point, as regards the voyage of Christiansø, is transferred from the Minister for Transport to the Minister for Defence. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20141024100126	The debate is open. Sir. Bertel Haarder as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024100138	Thank you to the ministers for their statements. We rapporteurs need to deal with them summarily, because the time is short, and that is why I will stick to the political, to the direction that is in them or that should be. We reform Nordic co-operation and we save 10%. of the budget over a period of three to four years. This makes Nordic co-operation slimmer, but there is nothing to prevent it from getting stronger at the same time. We must not measure the impact of Nordic co-operation on the size of the appropriations or on the volume of the institutions and the number of initiatives. What we need to measure this by is that citizens should experience the Nordic Region, the Nordic countries as a common home country, a common starting point, whether they are business people, students, or people who just want to work in another country. They must experience that it is much easier to get to a Nordic country than it is to come to another country, and that is why we have set up this border prevention council with one from each government and one from the Nordic Council, and that is by chance myself. We have started, but it is awesome, and it therefore requires a great deal of attention from governments if we are to be able to keep up with it at all, because new barriers are constantly being created, for example. When implementing EU legislation, for example: when autonomous areas adopt their own legislation and forget that they may thus create border barriers not only to Denmark but also to the other Nordic countries. This is a huge matter which requires the greatest attention of governments. Citizens must experience that working and working together in the other Nordic countries is much easier than elsewhere in Europe. Companies should be able to use the establishment in other Nordic countries as their first cautious attempt to reach the international market, and there they should not face all sorts of obstacles, as a conference in Danish Business last spring unfortunately revealed. In addition, the Nordic Region must have the weight, the influence in the world and on our own affairs that our strength justifies. I think we need to combat small-state mentality in general in the Nordic countries. We're not small together. Together we have a gross domestic product comparable to that of Russia. We have together a merchant fleet, which is probably the largest in the world. We have known together the greatest development aid in the world, and on this point we have an influence, because we have actually learned to work together in the World Bank, but we could not use the same model in many other forums. Together, we have the largest aircraft forces in the European Union, and that is why there is no point in ensuring that together we do not monitor and, if necessary, guard the North Atlantic and the Arctic area, which is, of course, left to our care. I am convinced that the most peacekeeping that we can do in the North Atlantic and in the Arctic is that we ourselves are responsible for monitoring and guarding, that there is no way of creating a vacuum that can tempt those who have apparently been tempted by the Stockholm archipelago and other opportunities to try their way forward. The most important thing we can do is to take care of the North Atlantic and Arctic regions ourselves. It is important that we maintain dialogue with our eastern neighbours in the Baltic Sea context. We have discussed it a great deal in the Nordic Council Bureau. Where's the balance? We have cancelled meetings with the State Duma, but we have maintained, maintained, meetings with regional politicians. It will also take place next week, even an extended meeting with regional politicians. The model is that on the one hand we will show strength and also criticise and reject any attempt by the Russians to violate us or our neighbouring countries, but on the other hand we want to maintain dialogue and preserve the fora where we can have dialogue. I have to admit that three years ago, when I again began to engage strongly in Nordic co-operation, I had a thought that perhaps a kind of Stoltenberg report could be made on simplifying all the forums in which we as a parliamentarian are also being sent around and in which we can hardly overcome. But now I have to acknowledge that there may be a forum which may have been half dead for some years, which suddenly becomes relevant, so I think we need to maintain these opportunities for dialogue. Finally, I will tell you about a funny conversation last night, where I had a lady at the table on an occasion when the President of the Danish Parliament was also present. She said: Why is everything that has to do with the Nordics so boring? And why is nothing happening that we hear about? Here, of course, the answer is, firstly, that we are operating with a principle of consensus, which means that there are very few conflicts in Nordic co-operation, and then there is nothing in the newspaper about what there are no public battles to be fought. It is, of course, in a way because things are going so well, but it is not good for public attention, and so I would like to say again that I think the principle of consensus is a problem. I wish that, in the Nordic context, as in NORDEFCO, the Nordic defence cooperation, we could act in such a way that if there are some countries that would like to cooperate, there may well be other countries that refrain, and then we will have to find a way for them to avoid paying. It must be possible to achieve such practical, pragmatic Nordic cooperation. I would argue that Nordic co-operation is experiencing a renaissance at the moment. It started after the end of the Cold War, where we could suddenly speak both foreign and defence policy and did so. It has become a permanent tradition at the Nordic Council session that the Nordic Council Bureau meets with the Foreign Ministers. It was unthinkable earlier. There is an ever closer Nordic defence cooperation within NORDEFCO. We have joint action starting points in Africa and in many other places. The scrollbook for that was the Stoltenberg report with the 13 points, and he was here in the House in May and was pleased with everything that had happened, but on one point he was extremely critical, and I would say to the Foreign Minister: he was not at all satisfied with the embassy cooperation. It seemed that it could be much, much more, and he did not think that when a Nordic country is closed down, what we often do, it will not find the solution that another Nordic embassy can handle the Danish business. Of course, the ambassador can only be an ambassador on behalf of Denmark if it is an area where we agree, but on that point we should also be able to be practical. Now we have a new Stoltenberg report on health. This is the vision for the future for which I would also like to thank the Minister for Nordic cooperation, and I would like to thank the Minister for accepting so quickly the Secretary-General's proposal for a Stoltenberg report, which then became a Bo Könberg report. This will be a major issue relating to patients' rights, and it is also something about the fact that we in the Nordic countries have such well-ordered health systems that we are ready for clinical trials. Bo Könberg's sub-bets, but I would like to say to the Minister that we must bear in mind that the Nordic countries are becoming very attractive for clinical trials. Now I see that the President is standing up, and that is because we have only 10 minutes, but I look forward very much to a debate on this new Stoltenberg report written by a former Swedish Minister for Health, Bo Könberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101238	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101241	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder for the speech. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work in following up the cooperation and decisions we have taken on the removal of border barriers in the Nordic countries, and it is with great satisfaction that I see that the rapporteur has been placed at the heart of this and congratulates the rapporteur on his position on the development of Nordic co-operation. But I would like to ask a few specific questions about some of the savings that have been made in the Council of Ministers and how an old high school man feels about saving money at the Nordic Journalist Centre, the Nordic Sommerhøjskole and the Nordic Houses. How does the rapporteur actually feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101336	I welcome the Nordic houses and I welcome the fact that something is being done to make Nordic journalists aware of the interestingness of following developments in other Nordic countries. But it should be the case that the media themselves cooperated. It should of course be the case that universities themselves found ways of working together, as they do very much in the field of research. I fully agree that a Nordic grant may be something that sets something in motion, but if the same grant is there forever, it will become, as it were, an institution. And, of course, the most important thing is that we use the money to push cooperation into action, which can then do without artificial breathing from the Nordic funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101434	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101436	Thank you. Now the difference between the media world and the research world is probably that the media world is much more governed by private participation, where the research world is much more governed by common social priorities. And that can make it hard to get one, what to say, alternative angle on the media world. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not find it a bit contradictory that we recognise, on the one hand, that we do not really get over the ramp with the Nordic Council, that is to say with the story to the people, and, on the other hand, we save on an institution that could help us to the institution like the Nordic Journalist Centre, and, on the other hand, what should be said about the more cultural exchange of views in the Nordic Region. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to deal with the contradiction that I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101541	But should we not be pleased that yesterday, in consultation with the delegation, the Minister for Cooperation was able to tell us that this institution now has a million? kr. In 2015? Then we got this far. The austerity proposal that was put forward, I think, has convinced us all of the value of what was tried to save. And whether that means saving one's life in the long run, I can't say. I am therefore delighted that they have received 1 million. kr. But I think we can be familiar with making Nordic co-operation stronger and slimmer at once. We in the European Union must do so, and we must do so in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101623	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Annette Lind as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024101633	On behalf of the Socialists, I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for Nordic cooperation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the written explanations on Nordic co-operation, on Arctic cooperation, on Baltic Sea Council cooperation and on border prevention work. I am very pleased that the report on Nordic co-operation is based on the strong Nordic community of values and interests. And the Nordic community is really unique, yes, I myself experience that when I travel with the Nordic Council. We have a lot in common and a strong community helps to achieve our goal of creating growth and more jobs, an even better environment and also a safe and healthy life for all across the Nordic countries. As you know, the more you lift in groups, and that is exactly what we do with Nordic co-operation. In fact, we are reaching longer together, and this is especially important in a time of so much change around the world. In 2015, Denmark holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It will be an exciting year and we in the Socialists look forward to all the priorities. Most people, businesses and institutions have in recent years felt the consequences of the economic crisis. In 2012, Nordic co-operation ministers have also made the Nordic Council of Ministers' budget more efficient. During the Danish Presidency, focus will be on four important areas: Welfare, Growth, Values and the Blue Arctic. These focus areas will help strengthen the Nordic region as a spearhead in terms of environment, climate and green growth. The Nordic cities must be even more attractive and even more sustainable than they already are, from waste sorting to architecture. The fashion and textile industry must also be given a boost, so that sustainability and the environment come into focus, not least the human aspects and a responsibility for proper working conditions. I have already mentioned fashion, and here the New Nordic Mode project is a good step, and under that point I would also like to mention Greenland's seal skin as a sustainable product which, unfortunately, can still be viewed with some scepticism. My colleague in the Danish Parliament and in the Nordic Council, Karin Gaardsted, has put a great deal of work into promoting the focus on Greenland's sealskin as a commodity that becomes involved in the awareness of Nordic consumers. The bioeconomy must also grow, and in this context the government, together with the Faroe Islands' Home Government and Greenland's self-government, must launch a project to find new solutions within the fishing industry, fish farming and seaweed, and it goes without saying that there must also be a focus here on sustainability, environment and growth. We must compete on quality and also be innovative. Under the welfare area, we must, among other things,: ensure that the quality of healthcare is even higher for all. As a former chairman of the Health Committee, I am also very pleased that we have set the programmes in motion •Holdable Nordic Welfare and •One Health. A large number of measures are already under way, and so more are on the way. The fight against social dumping is part of the welfare initiatives, and at home we have put a lot of effort into the fight against social dumping in order to continue to ensure proper pay and working conditions in the Danish labour market, and this is therefore also an important Nordic discussion. This is an area that we look forward to following very closely and in which we Socialists are very concerned. In the linguistic field, yes, there should be a focus on the importance of understanding Scandinavian for children and young people. As rapporteur for children and education, it is something that is close to my heart that it is an important part of our close community that we have a common linguistic understanding. When we meet across borders, we are far too quick to simply switch to English instead of taking the trouble to learn and understand Danish, Norwegian and Swedish. It is an important job to give children and young people more courage to do so. The work to strengthen the Nordic brand is therefore also an important area to attract even more attention around the Nordic region in the world. Our values, our social model, our ability to cooperate, our fashion, our food, nature and mentality are everything but something we just have, it is also a unique brand. And that is something for which we are admired, even being studied around the world. Projects such as New Nordic Mode, New Nordic Food and Nordic Cool are some of the existing initiatives that we need to strengthen. Our Nordic brand has sustainability, environment and growth, and it must continue to be the headlines. With regard to the issue of border barriers, this is an issue which has a great deal of attention. The Border Prevention Council has been established, and it must help to strengthen cooperation even more across borders and overcome the challenges that are constantly being experienced in several places. A lot of money can be saved, and here I am thinking in particular of standards in the construction industry, just as many jobs must be created, and here I am thinking, for example, of standards in the construction sector. recognition of professional qualifications. However, I also think it is necessary for the institution of the border prevention office to be set up, that is to say, an office which helps the individual citizen who is in a position to find himself in trouble. The status is that the Border Obstacle Council is now in contract negotiations to draw up a report on the possibility of strengthening cooperation. If everything goes well, yes, there should be a report ready for Easter which can be used as a basis for decision-making for the session in Reykjavík. As the last area, we must also continue to work on the Arctic. Climate challenges in the Arctic have come to stay, and greater cooperation on these challenges is necessary, as is the safety of sailing. Not least when it comes to cruise ships, we need to make them more efficient. The same applies to environmental and safety requirements. Should a disaster arise, for example, on one of the many large cruise ships that visit Greenland every year, yes, too many questions still need answers. This also applies in the case of oil spills. The climate change that is taking place right now reduces the ice around the North Pole. One of the consequences would be an expected increase in maritime traffic, both in freight, tourism and fishing. It is therefore important that we maintain the monitoring and sovereignty of the territory of the Commonwealth in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. With the Danish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2015, I am pleased that more focus is being placed on the Arctic. In relation to Baltic Sea Council cooperation, it is important for us to mention the situation around Russia and Ukraine. The main task of the Baltic Sea Council is to promote democratic development in the Baltic Sea region, which is precisely why Baltic Sea cooperation is also important when we look at what has happened. Dialogue is the key word here, and for example. mention that my Social Democratic colleague and the President of the Nordic Council for 2014, Karin Åström, visited the Baltic Sea region earlier this year to create dialogue and visibility around the Ukraine crisis. At the same time, 40% go. of total Danish imports into the Baltic Sea region; we are talking about just over 400 billion. kr. It is therefore also for this reason common sense to contribute to cooperation. As I have highlighted in my speech, Nordic co-operation and community are unique. We must safeguard our values, our social model and our values and continue to work to ensure that our Nordic citizens can live in security and with the best possible conditions for a good working life and well-being. At the same time, we must create the best conditions for those who want to be part of the Nordic Region. Green growth must be promoted and the environment must be safeguarded. We share history, we share language and culture far along the way, but above all we share the common future. Thank you to the ministers for their participation and for their work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024102350	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024102413	I should like to begin by thanking both ministers present for the statements that have been made. I think it has been interesting reading, and I can at least recognise from my own work in the Nordic Council over the last two years the presentation of many of the topics covered by the statements. For us in the Danish People's Party, Nordic co-operation is of particular importance because it is in cooperation with the Nordic countries that we see the immediate and completely natural cooperation. This is because, in the Nordic countries, we have a completely different and more immediate relationship with each other through our very closely related history, our common values, the linguistic community, so it can be said that it is actually much more straightforward to work together than the cooperation that is otherwise most dependent on awareness, namely EU cooperation. The natural thing is then that the best cooperation arises between those who come from the same starting point and therefore can naturally enjoy each other's company. As a saying, it is the case that equal children play best, and our time is also rich in examples that things are bad when unequal parties are brought into a community and have to work together. In this context, I cannot help thinking that it is, after all, very unequal parties that have been brought together in euro cooperation, and that it has not been a great success either. That is why our position is that it is Nordic co-operation that is quite natural for Denmark, and it is among the Nordic countries that these are countries that are much more similar to us than the countries within the framework of the European Union. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are also committed to developing the Nordic co-operation with a great many aspects, among others. border barriers are an important issue for us, and I also know that many of the other rapporteurs, who have either spoken or will speak later today, are committed to this because freedom of movement in the Nordic countries is the prerequisite for the good exchange between countries to be translated into favourable economic development for the benefit of all parties. However, even if there are advantages of free movement in the Nordic countries, there may also be disadvantages with it if there is an imbalance between the Nordic countries, for example when the citizens of the Nordic countries have free access to move between countries and have the same access to social benefits as the nationals of the country of residence. It is not in itself a problem if all countries have similar levels of benefit and if the conditions attached to benefits are comparable. But the problem arises if there are too many differences. In the Danish People's Party, we fear that the totally unbridled immigration to Sweden and the enormous allocation of citizenship in Sweden can in the long term lead to imbalance between the Nordic countries, because if we imagine that the many new immigrants to Sweden will have as much difficulty in supporting themselves as the generations of immigrants before them, the Swedish welfare system will come under enormous pressure, which can be forced to restrict access to social benefits or even lower the level of benefits. If this happens, it cannot be ruled out that many immigrants in Sweden will look to Sweden's neighbouring countries where better services will still be available. That is why we in Denmark have to consider the same thing in Norway and Sweden on an ongoing basis whether developments in Sweden give us the opportunity to adjust the Swedish's access to the Danish welfare system. So in this way it can be said that Sweden is gambling with good Nordic co-operation. In Denmark, we cannot and must not decide which immigration policy Sweden should pursue. It is up to the Swedes to decide for themselves, but at least we have our right to take our measures if Swedish policy goes beyond Denmark. Now that I mention Sweden, I will not fail to mention the other shocking developments in Sweden which we have witnessed in the past year. A month ago there were elections in Sweden, and from this side of the Øresund we were able to follow a course that was not worthy of a democratic country. To an unprecedented extent, one of the largest parties in the country was trampled under the feet of the united Swedish press and of the other Swedish parties. The words against the Swedish Democrats came in a rush, and unfortunately the number of reports of harassment of the party's activities was frequent. Such treatment of a political party does not belong in a democratic society such as Sweden, and with the stigmatisation combined with the very limited electoral secret in the Swedish electoral system, one might well fear that many Swedes felt threatened or pressured not to vote for the Swedish Democrats. Fortunately, however, the Swedish Democrats ended up being Sweden's third largest party, and that is great, so many Swedes were not cowed by the bully methods used in the Swedish election campaign. Unfortunately, the number of negative news from Sweden has been increasing in the past year. In the past we have heard that the comic book Tintin had been censored from Swedish libraries because of an alleged racist content. This year the trip had come to the Swedes' own Pippi Longstocking, which also had to be removed from some curtains, it was shown, because of the content of the drawings on the curtains. Most recently, it has gone so far that an artist has been sentenced to six months' unconditional imprisonment because of the content of his art, and the works have been condemned to destruction. I believe that these are only things to be heard about from dictatorships, and that is not worthy of a Nordic country. In recent years, Nordic co-operation has addressed a number of changes to the organisation. Here in 2014 and the years ahead, a slimming down of the cooperative economy is carried out, where part of the activities are cut off or reduced. The Danish People's Party and our group collaboration, Nordic Freedom, support these savings. It is healthy sometimes to stop and to consider whether all the activities and all the costs you have are now also necessary and whether the money could not be spent in a better way or simply saved. We in Denmark have taken the lead in this work, and it is a work that the Danish People's Party supports. Similarly, we are also pleased that the Nordic Council has undertaken to review the way in which the Nordic Council's Arctic work is organised. I myself have been part of a reform group for the last six months to come up with proposals on how to improve the political processes in the Nordic Council, make them more relevant and bring them closer to the work of the Nordic parliaments. This work is still ongoing, and I hope that in a year's time, when we next have a debate on Nordic co-operation here in the Danish Parliament, we can look back with satisfaction at the reform of the Nordic Council. Finally, I should like to say that I have also read with interest the statement on Arctic cooperation. A good piece of work is also being done in the field of Arctic cooperation, among other things. by highlighting the work to promote maritime safety as something that is continuously working to improve. We welcome this in the Danish People's Party. There are also good results in Baltic cooperation. It is not something that is so much attention about at home, you may say, but among other things. I would like to point out that the work on trafficking in human beings in Baltic cooperation has produced some good results, which we can then be pleased with. So, in those words, I would like to thank you once again for the statements to the two ministers and say that I am looking forward to taking part in the Nordic Council's cooperation in the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103211	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103214	Did I really hear you? Did the rapporteur say that if Sweden does not change its policy on refugees and become more restrictive, the Danish People's Party believes that we should restrict Swedish citizens' access to Danish welfare benefits? Is that what I heard? I'd like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103237	I can say that wasn't exactly that, sir. Finn Sørensen refers, as I said. I said that the Swedes are free to set up their immigration policy, as they would like me not to interfere, but that it is also for Denmark and other neighbouring countries to choose whether we will continue to give Swedes direct access to the Danish social system. I do not think there is any basis for revising that right now, but if there is a development in which a great many Swedes apply to Denmark for social benefits, there is an imbalance in Nordic co-operation, and then we have to review whether we should still give Swedish citizens the same access to our system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103321	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103323	But then I can hear that I heard quite rightly at least that if the Swedish refugee policy does not change in the future, that is, if they continue to receive so many refugees, then the Danish People's Party will take such measures. My question is this: is it not a bit contradictory to talk about strengthening Nordic co-operation? Was it not much better for Nordic co-operation and also for individual countries' ability to deal well with the refugee problem that instead we sought much closer cooperation on this issue and tried to achieve some fairly common objectives and procedures so that we can carry out the task we have as a rich country, in relation to helping people who are on the run? So is it not a contradiction that the rapporteur is now making?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103418	No, I do not think there is any contradiction here. Nor do I believe in the possibility of reaching some sort of agreement with the Swedes on how to deal with the refugee situation. I think the parties are far too far apart. I and the Danish People's Party do not want to interfere in any way in how Sweden's immigration policy is to be combined; the Swedish Parliament and the government must decide for themselves. However, if it starts to have consequences as a form of derived immigration via Sweden to Denmark, it is clear that we must look at how our relations with Sweden should be linked in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103458	There are a few more brief comments from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103503	Thank you. I thought it sounded a little strange. Is it the case that we should set up restrictions for the Swedes in Nordic co-operation? Is this really our task in Nordic co-operation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103515	It is Danish domestic policy and it may be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103522	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103524	Do you really think that we should make the conditions more difficult for the Danes by imposing restrictions on Nordic co-operation because of immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103529	I just want to remind you that we're not using the indictment form you in the Folketing. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103532	I do not know what Mrs Annette Lind is referring to. In Denmark, we determine our policy and who has access to Danish services, and if it turns out that Nordic co-operation is too liberal, too flexible and thus allows too many people to raise Danish transfer income, we have to look at the rules, and that is what I am proposing. If Swedish immigration becomes so large and migrated to Denmark via immigration to Denmark via Sweden, we need to look at these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103611	Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103620	As a representative of the Nordic Council in the new Border Barriers Council, I cannot help asking the rapporteur: will he not promise to think carefully before proposing new border barriers simply because he disagrees with Swedish immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103642	I can guarantee you, sir. Bertel Haarder, that we always think carefully in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103650	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024103657	Thank you. Well, we're going even further than I actually expected. Because when I read the three statements we were going to discuss, I thought it was already a great deal, and when we are going to discuss foreign policy, it is going to be even bigger. But I think I'm gonna stay away from it and have a little bit of a different focus. I am not a Nordic rapporteur myself, which is why I have received a few inputs to apologize for the foreign word; I do not know what it is called in Danish from Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, whom I have promised not to read, but to refer. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen has had some good thoughts, which I shall try to refer loyally to. So I will start with the Nordic countries, which we have a very high priority. We are countries that are similar; we have similar societies; and we have many of the same priorities both at home and abroad. It is therefore fruitful to cooperate both in areas of common interest and on national agendas where we can inspire each other and cultivate joint initiatives within, for example. Green growth, welfare challenges, health policy or cultural cooperation for countries with a very large common cultural heritage. But it is also good to stand together on the agendas where we are strong in the world, for example. on climate and development agendas, where individually we mean less than if we stand together and stick to our priorities. Therefore, the whole joint Nordic branding strategy with the Nordic houses and much more is also exciting and relevant, and we are therefore also very pleased with the common vision of Nordic co-operation, which goes by the name of "Norden • Together we are stronger • Together. I fully agree with that. Furthermore, in the Radical Left, we are also concerned about and support the ongoing process of achieving more dynamic and concrete cooperation, to which we can better relate in the respective Nordic communities, and it is interesting that several of the areas of cooperation actually have a clear Nordic added value in one way or another. That is why we are also pleased with the reform work that is under way. Finally, we are also very pleased with the work of the Danish Government to look at the Nordic border barriers. This, of course, could be desired more quickly, but we also know that it is not easy. We have to get on with that. So far as the Nordics are concerned. Now we come to Arctic and Baltic cooperation, which, of course, has certain areas and issues to deal with. There are several issues that go on again: the environment, energy, etc. But the angle I would like to put on both the statements that have been given and on the two areas is the security policy angle. For we have, of course, been getting used to being such a state that was on the periphery of things that were about security for the past ten years. Security is the kind of thing that goes on far away. Sometimes we send people and fighters and transport planes to fight for our safety, but we have seen how we get used to the idea that safety is something that goes on in our own backyard. This has changed radically over the last few years. Now I myself have been making a great deal of fun of those who feared the Russians for the last few years, but we will have to revise that position anyway. But before the concern about Russia came into the picture, we had also been looking over the last few years at developments in the Arctic, and not least with concern, but also with optimism, reflected on the risk that this development in the Arctic could also lead to. After all, the development that has been opened up offers new opportunities, but it also opens up risks. And there are suddenly new interests at stake in the Arctic, which will make the Arctic a very important area of interest, not only for us who live near the Arctic, but also for great powers in the rest of the world. That is why, of course, we think it is important to focus on the marine environment and rescue service, etc., but there is no doubt that where we have the greatest concern, of course, is if the Arctic should go and be further militarised and a high voltage area. That is why I am very pleased that the government in its statement attaches importance to helping the Arctic remain a low-voltage area. This is incredibly important to us, and it is therefore also that the crisis that is currently taking place between Ukraine and Russia, but also Russia and the rest of the world, including us, should be excluded from Arctic cooperation. It is absolutely crucial that the Arctic does not become such a place where regional conflicts are given a new stage. The assessments made by experts may not be that there will be conflicts in the Arctic about the major interests that are otherwise in the Arctic, but that regional conflicts around the world may have some gambling law in the Arctic. There is no doubt that this is something we cannot help but fear in the situation we have seen between Russia and Ukraine, and that is why I believe that a great many of us have been concerned about following Russia's progress in the Arctic. I think there have been slightly different reports about whether one can read that conflict in Russia's act in the Arctic. I can see that the statement suggests that nothing has happened that should worry. I have read other versions, but I now also believe in what is being presented in the statement. But of course this is something that we are following very closely. This is rather the same angle in relation to the Baltic Sea cooperation, which was also, at first, such a confidence-building cooperation which should create dialogue and which I think lies in a very, very fine extension of the efforts that Denmark was also making during the Cold War. We were members of NATO, and yet we were extremely active in creating and maintaining a dialogue between East and West. And I still think that's our role. Even at a time when we are also talking in capital letters towards Russia and when we are involved in sanctions, it is also our role to keep the dialogue track warm all the time. And it must be kept warm through our Baltic Sea cooperation. It needs to be kept warm through the Arctic. When it is so important for me to crack down on these points, it is, of course, partly because I am a defence rapporteur. But it is also because I am absolutely convinced that the most important security policy agenda for Denmark is not to send fighters to Iraq. I am in favour of it; I think it is right, it is important, but where we have the greatest influence, and above all the greatest responsibility, is in our own vicinity. It's in the Baltic Sea region, and it's in the Arctic. And when it is so important now, it is because there are major risks associated with those areas, which is completely new to us, because we have not thought of that in the last ten years. So, yes, we still have to get away in remote areas and fight for security, but we also have to be aware that in the future Denmark may turn out to be a frontline state again, because we are close to areas where there are tensions. And we have to do everything we can to keep those tensions down. This is absolutely crucial for Denmark and I believe it is an absolute top priority for Danish foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024104437	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024104448	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are working together on three reports on the North, the Baltic and the Arctic. And the core of that is Nordic co-operation, you might say, so I will start with that. However, we cannot ignore the fact that although there is a core, there are also nice differences in relation to the other areas. What is important with regard to Baltic cooperation, and what is important with regard to the Arctic? I think it would perhaps be good to consider our Nordic cooperation as one of the core places where, although we should not put an absolute common line in relation to the other bodies, we might be able to use that cooperation a little more actively to get some things through thoroughly. For as Nordic countries as a whole we have a very special interest in the Arctic and not just as individual countries. As far as the Nordic Region is concerned, the government has set the priorities for Nordic co-operation. We in the SF are in complete agreement with that, and I believe that, as Mr. Bertel Haarder said that there is a better opportunity than there has been for a number of years to actually do so in practice. But when I follow it I have not always followed it very much, because I guess I have basically thought, and I still think that the most important cooperation we have is the European one, because it is there, it is snowing; that is where we can get some direct results and after I have dealt with it, I can say that there are also a number of possibilities in this cooperation that are not fully exploited. Bertel Haarder mentioned some methods that might strengthen it. I have taken note of something that I know the government is also concerned with, namely that strategic mapping of the areas with which cooperation could potentially be extended is being carried out on an ongoing basis. We need a dynamo in the mechanics. A lot can be said about the European Commission and so on, but somehow they are a dynamo and we lack a dynamo in Nordic co-operation. My advice to the government in relation to the Presidency, the Danish Presidency, which will start in a few months' time, will be to really equip the mechanism that we then agree to have, so that it really becomes dynamic and comes up with new initiatives. I can mention one thing that I myself have been concerned with over the years and that Mr. Bertel Haarder mentioned as one of the north's strengths: aid to developing countries. Yeah, we're huge apart. But we are really great if we put some of the forces together more, and I would like to say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Minister for Development is not here now that I actually think we should be much more active on that point. Do Danida, Norad and Sida, as they are called in the three Scandinavian countries, need to be there in the same place? That is not very appropriate. I know there's cooperation, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm actually talking about adding the eggs much more radically than we've ever seen. It was just an example. Otherwise, I would say that I think there are good priorities and I actually think that social dumping should be given priority in the discussion. With regard to the work on border barriers, I would like to say that I fully support it. But it is interesting that when you compare with how you have harmonised at EU level, because it is basically harmonisation that we are talking about; in the EU context it often sounds negative in people's ears, while in Nordic co-operation it sounds nicer, you can see that we do not have a mechanism that guarantees that we harmonise at a higher level of protection. After all, this has been done in the European Union, but in Nordic co-operation we do not have such a mechanism, and I would urge the government to write it down at least so that it is always thought that when we remove border barriers, it is also so that we will have the highest level of protection in relation to the environment, security and so on. Then it must be about Baltic cooperation. I agree that it needs to be focused. I would like the sea linking the Baltic Sea to be given a higher priority. Well, the pollution problems are massive. We have HELCOM, but there is too little power here, because with the rising temperatures we get in our gardens and right now it is there, CO2 therefore, there must be some action for a significantly more binding nature. So it is a priority and a desire that HELCOM and the Baltic Council and what becomes a little more powerful and will be more connected. It must also be linked to the EU's strategies, so it is not a simple matter. I know. In relation to the Baltic Council, Bertel Haarder mentioned the theme of Russia. An important part of the fact that the Baltic Sea Council was set up at the time was, in fact, that it would be ensured that the process which has so far ended happily that the Baltic countries could become self-employed, they could become members of the European Union, and that we also had a good relationship with Russia could be maintained. I still believe that this is an absolute priority in having the Baltic Sea Council: to maintain a good relationship with all countries in the area, with the difficulties it presents. This does not mean that we should stop criticising Russia when there is reason to criticise Russia, but that means that we should not confuse everything. So to the Arctic: the interesting thing about Arctic cooperation, I think, in this context, is that we are dealing here with an area that is under strong priority. After all, the Arctic Council has suddenly become a place where something really happens, from more having been a discussion club in the past. I believe that there are very good reasons why we should prioritise, so that there is full support for the priority. I also think that we have a separate interest in the EU being granted observer status. I know the conflicts with Canada and so on. and the EU's strange policy in the area of seals, but we really do have an interest in the EU being involved, also because that is where the great powers of the world will be interested in meeting in the years to come. And we have a huge interest in also having the alliance for a wider European commitment to the Arctic. Here again, and this is also stated in the statement, we must ensure that conflicts with Russia are not moved directly into the Arctic region. It is a very, very crucial thing, I think, for Denmark and also for the Kingdom Community, for Greenland, that we do not get a militarisation of the area. It should not be misunderstood as if a warship were not allowed up there as an observer, but militarisation means something else. That means they're there to use their military capabilities. After all, something else is monitoring, and it is actually part of the system's functioning that you know that there are agreed limits. We must very much hope that the whole question of the division of the base in the Arctic and so on. I hope that everything will be settled, and I think that everything now seems to be able to settle in a peaceful manner, so that there is some clarification. Finally, I would like to say about the North, which is the core of this, that we must be careful. We're very popular. There is soon not a TV series in the Anglo-Saxon countries, which is not about how smart it is to be Nordic and Scandinavian etc., and we can walk and bask in it and think that we are really so good. I would just like to say that it is not a weakness that we already have in Scandinavian countries, that is to say that we think we are not good. We already think we're a little good. Now the others say we're amazing, but you know what? We're not. We can do something, and we can do more, but my warning is that we should be careful that we do not become self-sufficient and instead prepare ourselves for the rather great challenges we face in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105502	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105504	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur for a speech which, of course, I agreed with on many points. I think that what the rapporteur said about trying to find a mechanism sounded interesting, so that when we abolish border barriers, we harmonise at the highest possible level of protection for citizens and the environment and something like that. That is how I understood it, and one can only agree with it; at least I think the Enhedslisten is. But how does the rapporteur envisage such a mechanism being implemented in the Nordic Council? Is it the case that the rapporteur is considering that we should give sovereignty to the Nordic Council of Ministers in this respect? How would such a mechanism be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105551	In other words, as long as we do not give up sovereignty in Nordic cooperation, it must be done so that every time we take an initiative to remove border barriers, we should at least describe that problem; that would be the first and the simplest. But otherwise I have given the ball to the ministers on this point. And then I can say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: the surrender of sovereignty is not something that I am as nervous about as Mr. Finn Sørensen is. In fact, I think there can be great benefits from this sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105623	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105625	Thank you. Otherwise, I have come to believe that it is only some to which the rapporteur thinks it is right to give up sovereignty, namely the European Union. However, when we in our joint group in the Nordic Council have discussed the possibility that in the distant future it might be possible to surrender sovereignty to Nordic co-operation, the rapporteur was not interested. That's why I asked you a little bit about it. I should not blame the rapporteur for the fact that it is important that a good idea can also be put forward. Of course, you are allowed to do so without having the absolute answer to how it should be implemented. And I think it's so let's ignore the teasing; I think it's a good idea, and let's work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105726-2	As far as the teasing is concerned, yes, I can give sovereignty to Nordic cooperation, and I am not opposed to that in principle. But I have the view that all the Nordic countries are somehow members of the European Union; there are some who do not like it, but we are all just involved in different areas. Some are not formally involved, but they are still in the main part. This is true, for example. Norway and Iceland, they are really involved in large parts of EU cooperation. I think it is quite important to see Nordic co-operation as some countries that are part of the European Union, but in different ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105808	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024105826	Thank you. I agree with the previous rapporteur on many points, including in his concluding remarks that we are members of the European Union without enjoying it. But I will come back to that a little later in my speech. I think something serious can actually be said about that. Thank you for the written statements we have received from the ministers. I think it is a good piece of material that I would actually hope that many citizens will make the effort to find it and read it because it proves that Nordic co-operation is far better than its reputation, because it is, of course, listed, in fairly easily accessible form, as we have wanted, a large number of concrete examples of the cooperation we have in the Nordic countries, on a whole lot of plans that actually produce good results for the citizens. We need to do something more to get it beyond the ramp that we talked about earlier. I would, of course, like to emphasise once again the efforts and good cooperation we have made here in the Folketing with regard to the removal of border barriers. It's a long and tough fight, but I think we've made progress on it. We have had good cooperation between the parties, we have managed to get a fairly foot-to-mouth government on this, and now it is as if a transformation is taking place. In fact, it seems that the Danish Government has begun to like it and, like it, helps to highlight that we have done a good job here, from which the other Nordic countries might learn something. So that's a great thing. There are also new initiatives on bedding and good thoughts about the Danish Presidency, and it is worth emphasising that a much closer cooperation on health is now being proposed, which will of course be of great benefit to the population. So all in all, there are good priorities. However, I, like the previous rapporteur, lack a much higher level of joint action in the fight against social dumping. The Nordic labour market models have so many things in common, at least much more in common than with the models elsewhere in Europe, that we should work much closer together to counteract the negative effects that also exist, of free movement. We must put that into words, at least, of the kind of freedom of movement that the EU rules have brought about and which, by means of decisions of the Court of Justice and the wordings of the Treaties, mean that professional and social rights are subordinate to the requirement of economic freedoms. This is a real problem in relation to the Member States' ability to protect themselves against social dumping. And I would like to see, as did the Enhedslisten and the Left Socialist Green Group in the Nordic Council, that we had a much closer cooperation in the Nordic countries to counteract the negative effects that are there. I would also like to thank the Danish delegation to the Nordic Council for its good cooperation. Apart from something with border barriers and such a thing now to be introduced with Swedes, we have probably only found one major disagreement from the Enhedslisten side, and that is the whole of this austerity debate and the attitude towards the government's approach. I would like to stress that it is all right in all the institutions, both in the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Council of Ministers, to look at how we can save. Things should not always be done as has always been done, but savings requirements of 10%, which unfortunately have been achieved with most of what one would like to do, are therefore not related to the toast speeches, and in our eyes it is therefore not related to the government's objective to strengthen Nordic co-operation. That is one thing, that is to say, it is too harsh a measure of austerity if you want to strengthen the Nordics, but then there is also the way to save, i.e. this famous green harvester, who in himself is a miserable machine and who we know. It also runs around the ministries here in Denmark once a year with some boring results. However, in the Nordic Council of Ministers it is even worse, because money disappears completely out of the system and important initiatives need to be reduced. The problem with this method is, of course, that we as ordinary members of the Nordic Council, if you can put it that way, usually only find out the consequences of the harvester when it is too late, when decisions have been taken and decisions have been taken to save or close down various activities. We have discussions on this, and we certainly have a commitment that the whole process should be more transparent. We must then hope that through it we can rectify it. From the perspective of Enhedslistens and our group in the Nordic Council, we must therefore, in this economy, spare the citizens-related activities and the basic institutions. It must be the administrative costs and the priority pools of the country holding the presidency and the ministers who must bear in mind when we have to finance the bulk of the savings. From Enhedslisten's point of view and from our group in the Nordic Council, we have the clear view that we should drop the cuts completely at the Nordic Journalist Centre, Nordic summer colleges and the Nordic houses. After all, they have been set up for a purpose once and with some very good arguments that still hold water. We are, of course, pleased that there will now be a million kroner to the Nordic Journalist Centre, but the future of the institution is still completely uncertain, and that is no good if you want a free press to work at the Nordic level. After all, we are in the process of reforming the working models of the Nordic Council, the way we work, and there I would also like to thank the other participants in the working group we have had for the fact that we have jointly dared to think out of the box and come up with some, what should we say, a little controversial proposals, all of which are, after all, about a main line. We need more politics in the Nordic Council, more political discussion, and that is what we get by ensuring that the party groups in the Nordic Council have a greater role to play, so it is they who are driving the discussions. Then I would like to make some publicity for some proposals that the Left Socialist Green Group will be presenting to the session next week. It is about following up Sweden's good announcement of recognising Palestine. So we have a proposal on this which we hope the other parts of the Danish delegation will look at graciously. We have a proposal to strengthen the free press in the Nordic countries and a proposal for closer cooperation in the field of development aid, which might also help to counteract some of the problems that Mr. Mikkel Dencker thinks there is and as there is to some extent too. In view of the fact that we have many refugees seeking asylum, we should also cooperate more closely in the Nordic region to strengthen development aid, which would certainly help it at the end of the world. Finally, a proposal for a Sami film institute. Finally, some more general comments on the development of Nordic co-operation. Earlier this year, Gallup conducted an opinion poll in which the Danes were asked what they would rather have, a Nordic federation in a flexible cooperation with the EU or a full EU membership, i.e. the lifting of the reservations that Denmark has. A significant majority of 47 per cent. elected a Nordic Federation, only 28%. elected full membership of the EU, and then there were 25 per cent who did not know what to think of it. It's actually a good pointer that's in it. I think it is comprehensive for what large sections of the population think about Nordic co-operation. People spontaneously want closer Nordic cooperation, and they have therefore been asked directly here about a Nordic federation, which, like the state, etc. to the level of the state formation we almost have in the EU, perhaps even more far-reaching. And it is notable that a majority of the Danes think it is a good idea. It tells us in the Left Socialist Group that this should lead to a more concrete approach to discussions on the long-term future of Nordic co-operation. That is why I, together with a number of other parties, other than my friends in the Nordic Council, am co-sponsoring a proposal that we should move forward with the ideas of a Nordic federal state that has come up with different models. It is not, of course, about the fact that next week we will have to commit ourselves to the fact that this is a very specific model we are going for. The authors of the motion for a resolution are not even ready to conclude. No, we should set in motion a piece of work that can examine different models of closer Nordic cooperation. There are many ways in which countries can cooperate. I think it is wise that we look at it more openly and without prejudice. And, if I may be a little harsh, in the hope that this may provoke some debate: if we look at it historically, the long move, where is the European Union going? Is the EU going up or down? With my glasses, the European Union is on its way down because it has a fundamentally problematic construction. Where is Nordic co-operation heading? It's coming up. We have already confirmed this today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024110825	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024110850	Thank you. I am here on a toy today because our rapporteur is unfortunately prevented from being here. I have read the report with interest, and I cannot help thinking that sometimes it gets so old-fashioned that it gets modern again. It could, for example, be done. Nordic co-operation. After all, we can see that the European Union has grown bigger, that the European Union is dealing with more and more, that the machinery of the European Union is becoming heavier and heavier, and in this respect I think it is high time that Nordic cooperation was given a renaissance. It is of course very interesting to see that a declaration of vision for Nordic co-operation has now been adopted and that efforts are being made to modernise the organisation in order to create a more modern, simple and efficient organisation. Somewhere it seems to me like you're fixing an engine, but maybe it's a brand-new car you're about to invest in? I believe that Nordic co-operation has the seeds of really lifting something in an area where there are a number of countries that are based on a common history and have a community of values that is much stronger than that of the many, many Member States that are currently in the European Union. So what I would call on the government, now that we are entering into further cooperation, is not just to look at improved decision-making processes and administrative procedures, changes in the institutional area, improvement of project activities and strengthening the budget as a tool for managing Nordic co-operation; for all that is simply a daily operation, one might say. That is why we simply have to take a look, take our backs and look at how, with strengthened Nordic substantive cooperation in a number of areas, we cannot, of course, conflict with what we are doing in the European Union, because we are bound to do so as long as we are able to do something together with the other Nordic countries that could take us further, including in a globalised, modern world. So from the Liberal Alliance's point of view, the call must be: well enough to look at repairing the engine, but could we not from Denmark help to raise this agenda so that we can create a renaissance for Nordic co-operation, which has a really great history and which, in fact, could strengthen the Nordic countries in the globalised world we are living today, without conflicting with the commitments we have in relation to European cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111140	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111143	Thank you. Well, I would like to sign for the statement that comes from the rapporteur. I think that is one of the things we need to do if we want a greater share of the population to take an interest in Nordic co-operation: we are making some suggestions as to how we really intend to develop it. I am not quite sure that I agree with the rapporteur, in other words that we agree on what we are really doing in our community of values in the Nordic countries, but that is also a healthy discussion to have. My question is: has the rapporteur thought about how to challenge both the Danish Government and the other governments more specifically about how to develop Nordic co-operation? There are, for example: the proposal I mentioned is a co-sponsor of that we are trying to get the discussion going more systematically on what different models of cooperation can be: a federal state, a federation, looser forms of association, or whatever. Could the rapporteur support the fact that we are doing a little more concrete things like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111257	I could actually do that, but I always think, before you start to find out how to organize things, that you should know what this organisation has to promise. In other words, we need to draw a vision of future Nordic cooperation, which is not just about how the engine can be repaired, what it is about some things in operation that we can change, nor is it about whether we should have a federal state or what we should have. Before we organise that organisation, we need to find out what tasks we can solve together, which can help bring improvements for the Nordic countries and strengthen the position of the Nordic countries in a globalised world. That is the one thing I want to say. The second point I want to make is that we can push on the Danish side alone to get some things done. A tiny example is that there are plans to create a Nordic house in Flensburg, where we could have a gateway to Europe from the Nordic side and at the same time also a gateway from Europe up against the Nordic countries. Such things, specifically down in the earth, we could do, which is not just about repairing the engine or creating large new organizational structures, but is about something substantial. I think we should push for this, because it is my clear impression that we have built up something that is based on a historical tradition, but which also bears the hallmark of being a little museumal in the way we work with things. There I think we should try to raise our eyes and breathe new life into it, perhaps with a simpler organization, in return, with a greater substantive content.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111429	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111431	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is not an isolated matter of repairing the engine that needs to be taken care of, and we are in the process of doing so, we will get some buttons screwed up, and we should not be looking blindly at different models of state cooperation either. We need to work on everything at once and, above all, we need to work on what political content should be, what cooperation tasks we have. A model may be to go in and amend the Helsinki Agreement, that is to say our common Nordic constitution, if I may say so, and to define some areas if there are now some areas in which cooperation is to be extended. Then you can write it there. Well, more complicated, it doesn't have to be. That is why I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur have any suggestions on where to extend Nordic co-operation • some new themes that are not described in the agreement today, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111526	I haven't. As I said, I'm on toiled here today, so I'm just seeing my job in trying to look further ahead than these appliance repairs that can be excellent. It may also be good to look at whether there are some things that can be changed in the existing cooperation agreements, but again you have to know why you change something, that is, what is the perspective in it. I would like to see stronger Nordic cooperation, also as a correction in relation to many of the things that are happening at EU level. I think that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and I can agree on this very much. There is great potential in Nordic co-operation... a very great potential... which I would like to see redeemed. And then I think quite banal, one should ask oneself that's how I feel at least even if, when you go to meetings, you get something home, or if it's really more or less a waste of time. I have not myself participated in the meetings of the Nordic Council, but I could imagine that perhaps there too one could look at whether one could make it slimmer, but on the other hand more interesting and substantial in content.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111629	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024111652	It is interesting to hear this debate, where something is like in the air, I think. It is the case that many people question Nordic co-operation. If it does anything, does it lead to anything, does it give any value? I also feel that this is implicit in the debate here. Sir. Bertel Haarder met someone yesterday who said: Isn't that a bit boring, the Nordic? That sounds boring. That's how I heard that the person in question had told Mr. Bertel Haarder. And just now I heard Mrs Mette Bock say that there's some museum all over it. This must, of course, give rise to some serious reflections for us who, as politicians, are concerned with Nordic co-operation and participate in the Nordic Council. Is it boring and museumal and old-fashioned, or does it give any value? I hear from the debate here that, when we have our finger down a little bit in the work, we can all see that it makes a difference that it is useful that Nordic co-operation is important and useful and valuable. But we must take what is in the air seriously. When it is useful and important and valuable, it is because we share experiences that we benefit greatly from. It is also the case that we constantly strengthen what might be called our own Nordic internal market by constantly working on border barriers so that we can trade more with each other and exchange cross-borders completely freely. We have a lot of benefit from this, and citizens benefit from it, and businesses benefit from it. We are also doing things more effectively by doing things together. So there is plenty of value in Nordic co-operation. It must then be said that the reason why we have it is not only that there is geographical proximity between us, it does give itself, but we also have a historical and cultural community. That is also what binds us together. However, as I said, we need to take what is in the air seriously. In my opinion, we must make a great deal of money out of focusing on the essentials, and we have also put a great deal of pressure on the Danish side to do so. We need to make Nordic co-operation more efficient and we need to focus more on the essentials. After all, we only have to work together and exert ourselves on it and hold meetings on things and matters when it is the case that it makes a difference, that is, when there are good reasons to put something in the Nordic context. What I could so well lack, including in the statement we are discussing today, is that we are doing more about how we now stick to precisely the cultural and historical community, which, apart from geographical proximity, makes us think we have something together in the Nordic countries. It is difficult to see that there is a great deal going on in Nordic co-operation that focuses on it. Not least in a world where globalisation and European cooperation are very important, it is important that we stick to the fact that there is also a community that goes beyond the rational and economic, between the Nordic countries, not least for the sake of the children and young people who grow up in a world that is very globalised and where they get their impressions from all over the world. We cannot expect them to do so per year. automatically understands that there is a value in a Nordic community because we have a cultural and historical community precisely in our part of the world. We must ensure that they grow up with an understanding of this at school and in other contexts, and I would like the Nordic Council to do more about it. It could be in many ways. It could be teaching materials in schools, and it could be other things you did. So I think it's important. However, I would like to thank you for a good report on Nordic co-operation, which sums things up very well. I have just a few comments on Arctic cooperation. There are, after all, many important initiatives in the Arctic area. Not least, there is much that needs to be intensified in the coming years because of the climate change and the melting of the ice that we see coming. This requires many of the initiatives which have been well described in the report and which need to be intensified in the near future. It can be about safeguarding our environment, combating oil spills; it is about defence and security cooperation; it is about our rights linked to the continental shelf, about business and many other things. After all, there are expectations of an increased volume of sailing, not least an increase due to cruise tourism. I would like to make a special comment on this, because I think there is pressure for us to take measures in this area. I am aware that negotiations are under way, not least in the International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, but are moving too slowly. As we see in the Conservative People's Party, there is a need for us to have some rules in place for these cruise ships that sail with hundreds of cruise passengers in very deserted areas, where it is absolutely impossible, no matter how much we arm our rescue teams, to save the many people if it happens a serious accident. That seems to me to be a huge problem, and the only answer I have seen is the concept of twin voyages, which means that two cruise ships must always sail together; you must not sail alone up there, there must be another large ship nearby, so that one ship can save the other ship's passengers if the serious accident should occur. I think it's perfectly obvious. I think it is going too slowly, and I wonder why there is nothing in the statement about that particular issue. I would like to say that I believe that the government should act more effectively and decisively in this area. I am curious to hear whether the government has any comments on this, but I think it has to be the case that if we cannot get an agreement on this very quickly in the IMO, we must make our own rules on the Danish side. We have to see if we can make rules with Greenland and the Faroe Islands about sailing with cruise ships in our own waters that require twin sailing. Then the others can follow whenever they want. But there is a heavy responsibility on us to act in this area, because it cannot be ruled out that one day the great accident will happen, and then you will look at us and say: Why didn't you make the rules that you could see was what might save the many people? You failed because you waited for some perhaps a little bureaucratic negotiations in the IMO. On Baltic Sea cooperation, which is the last statement we are discussing, I have no particular comments to make. That is an excellent statement. There's a lot of good things going on there. One area which could perhaps be stepped up slightly and which is not very much mentioned is education. Perhaps, as in the Nordic area, there could be a need and an opportunity to see if there could be cooperation on internships for young people in education in the Baltic Sea region. I think many young people could enjoy that. After all, we all know that there is a lack of internships for young people in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024112504	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Sir. Edmund Joensen as rapporteur for the Samband Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024112520	Small state thinking is one of the political components that weakens the influence of a country and tends to isolate it from the outside world. In line with EU cooperation, Nordic co-operation is a kind of counterweight to small-state thinking • countries that seek together a common idea and cooperate to create a common environment for the benefit of citizens and businesses. In the Sambands party, we are 100% in favour of Nordic co-operation and against small-state thinking. On the other hand, there may sometimes be a lack of an organization with greater political clout. Think of the Nordic influence in Europe if all the Nordic countries were in the EU. And think of the tangible Nordic impact if all the Nordic countries were part of NATO. The potential is great, and I hope that at some point the North will unite its forces and take the place that we Norse people have in our part of the world. I would like to thank the ministers for their interesting and informative statements on Nordic and Arctic cooperation. As a Faroese member of the Danish Parliament, I am pleased that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are well involved in both Nordic and Arctic cooperation. The project mentioned in the statement, which focuses on growth in pelagic industry and whitefish industry as well as salmon farming and production of seaweed, is very interesting and relevant. And the Faroe Islands can make such a contribution. In salmon farming, the Faroe Islands are one of the leading nations in the world, and when it comes to pelagic fishing, the Faroe Islands are also well advanced in their shoes. I would say that if we focus on concrete initiatives and results in this project, it can provide prospects for Nordic growth and new jobs. In this context, I would like to know whether the Minister will explain this specific project in a little more detail with the broad perspectives. There is plenty of room in the report to highlight the fight against Nordic border barriers. That's understandable. And although work on border barriers hardly attracts much public attention, that particular struggle is extremely important, and it is very much about making the daily lives of ordinary people and businesses easier. And I believe that good work is being done in the fight against border barriers under the Nordic regime. The range of obstacles that have been removed or are on the way to being past is evidence of progress. In this context, it is inevitable to address border barriers within the borders of the Kingdom Community. We in the Danish Parliament have decided that these obstacles must also be combated. We did so on 28 March, and we all agreed on all the parties, all the Members of the Things. We instructed the government to undertake a systematic investigation and action against border barriers in the Kingdom community. The investigation should be completed by the end of the parliamentary year that has just passed. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: where is the investigation and what does the government intend to do? During the opening debate, I asked the Prime Minister the same question, but unfortunately there was no answer. I therefore hope that the Minister will give an answer here in the Folketing. May we see the investigation, and may we hear about the government's intended efforts? The Kingdom Community is an important player in Arctic cooperation, which is concentrated in the Arctic Council. It is important that the Kingdom is united, but it is equally important that all three parts of the empire are equal partners in the Arctic Forum. It must be remembered that Greenland in particular, but also the Faroe Islands is the reason why the kingdom is part of the Arctic Council. The report highlights many aspects of current cooperation. One of the important things is that the Commonwealth wants to separate the Russia-Ukraine conflict from cooperation with Russia in the Arctic. That is a wise line to take, and it is true that the possible conflicts in the Arctic must be resolved peacefully. Those of us who live in and near the Arctic have no interest in the fact that disagreements between major powers are to be played out in our area. Another important step forward is the so-called polar code that is on the way. It is imperative to impose requirements on ships sailing in polar areas and in other vulnerable and scenic areas. There must be regulation in favour of the environment and nature as the Arctic becomes more accessible. Finally, one more brief question to the Minister. The report states that last year a Greenlandic-Danish working group on business cooperation and commercial investment was set up in Greenland. I would like to know whether there is a particular reason why the Faroe Islands are not part of that working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113304	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113308	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and too many good questions to the Minister. I look forward to hearing the answer to them too. They were all extremely relevant. I very much agree with the rapporteur's view that the three parts of the Commonwealth should be much more equal partners in Arctic cooperation. I would like to make that clear. I also think that the rapporteur had a very good wording: Nordic co-operation is a counterweight to small-state thinking. It's good. But then my question is: what do the rapporteur think would be the consequences for the Faroe Islands if the rapporteur were to fulfil his wish that the Faroe Islands and Greenland should join both the European Union and NATO? I am thinking of the fact that I have experienced the Faroe Islands as a nation that took pride in deciding its own fisheries and trade policy, but one should know that if you join the European Union, the right of self-determination will disappear in this respect. When you consider membership of NATO, I would like to say that I consider the Faroese people to be an extremely peace-loving people. The closest we came to belligerent acts was surely perfectly understandable civil disobedience in Klaksvik and Thorshavn turned against colonial power many years ago. With membership of NATO, the Faroe Islands are linked to the whole so-called activist foreign policy, which has led to participation in several wars.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113431	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113435	These are big questions, but I will try to answer some of them. I assume that all the countries that are currently members of the European Union have found their own place in the European Union. Similarly, I believe that Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which are now outside, and Iceland and Norway, which are outside, are waiting for their place in the European Union. As far as the Faroe Islands are concerned, we will not talk about membership until we can safely manage the basis that is throughout the economy, i.e. fisheries and fisheries issues. But I expect that at some point there will also be a place for the countries outside. We know that we are all fishing nations, and at the same time as Norway, for example. decide to become a member of the oil adventure makes Norway in a special situation so the other countries will come immediately, for of course Norway, which at a major conference was about getting the others out, will come in sometime in the future. We'll just have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113617	A follow-up question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113620	Thank you. After all, I do not dispute the legal views of the rapporteur at all that it would be good for the Faroe Islands to join the European Union, and that is probably not new either. I just got a little curious about how you see yourself, because the rapporteur believes that the nations that are in the European Union today have found their place. Yes, but the Faroe Islands themselves have been exposed to the fact that the space is sometimes a little cramped because they have left their sovereignty over fisheries and trade policy to the EU, which led to the strange situation that Denmark began to sanction another part of the Commonwealth, namely the Faroe Islands, which was an extremely embarrassing experience for all of us, and I think it has been in the Faroe Islands as well. So it is just that I ask: how can it be combined with the Faroe Islands' desire to manage their own fisheries and trade policy? Then I must obviously have answered for the benefit of maintaining peace-loving positions if you become a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113728	President. - I call
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113731	I think these are good questions. Thank you for the questions. So, the Faroe Islands consider themselves to be part of NATO, but of course through the Kingdom Community. On the second issue of the conflicts that we have had, I also believe that we have managed to resolve them in a very reasonable way, bearing in mind that the Faroe Islands are outside and Denmark has obligations towards the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113803	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. Then it is the next and last rapporteur in the series of speeches, Mr. Johan Lund Olsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024113820	Thank you, President. Interest in the Arctic has exploded, and Greenland's importance geopolitically and geostrategicly is greater than ever. Due to our geopolitical location and our natural resources, both living and non-living, Greenland plays a major role internationally. Our underground, mountains and seas contain wealth that is of great interest to large parts of the world. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, it is therefore important that we continuously increase our foreign policy commitment, knowledge and capacity. We therefore also want to continue to exploit our positions in forums such as the Arctic Council, the ICC, Nordic cooperation, the UN and the IWC much more actively and promote our positions where we can. We have a lot of work to do in Greenland, but we also have a responsibility for the world around us. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore fight at all times to ensure that Greenland complies with its international obligations and that we see ourselves as world citizens and as advocates of democracy and solidarity. Greenland must be known as an environmentally conscious country. At the same time, Greenland needs economic growth and new business projects. But in these years we also experience man-made climate change very clearly in Greenland; the ice disappears and the weather changes. The conditions for our lives change; new opportunities arise while others disappear. We must adapt and influence where we can. Greenland must therefore remain part of the international agreements on combating climate change. There is also a need for a strategy for the crossing of the Northwest Passage, which relates both to the protection of the marine environment and wildlife and potential business opportunities with increased traffic in the waters between Greenland and Russia. In the field of environmental protection and nature conservation, Greenland is also subject to growing foreign pressure and influence. This means that our vested right to reap the living resources of nature, such as fish and land and marine mammals, is exposed to trade barriers and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to sell Greenlandic products such as seal skins, seal meat, whale products etc. The pollution of Greenlandic land and sea territory to the detriment of land mammals, fish and especially marine mammals is growing. This in turn poses a threat to the traditional way of life of the Greenlanders and the need for food is under constant pressure from abroad. It is therefore very crucial that Greenland is given much greater powers in foreign policy and security policy than it is today, and there must be genuine involvement and participation. Everyone in the Danish realm is equal to the Constitution, and in consequence of this principle of equality mechanisms must therefore be established which can both strengthen the Kingdom community and also ensure greater participation for Greenland in foreign and security policy issues. The Kingdom of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have together presented an Arctic strategy. My party, IA, has had a very important role and influence in the design of the empire's strategy, and we weigh the human dimension very much. There are people living in the Arctic as opposed to Antarctica. The Greenlandic people are one of the Arctic peoples, and the right to develop our society through the use of both living and non-living resources that our territory is hiding on will therefore be fought for by Inuit Ataqatigiit. At the same time, we know that the Arctic is vulnerable, and that is why, of course, we will always advocate that everyone who has activities in the Arctic complies with the toughest environmental requirements and standards. Together with Denmark and the Faroe Islands, we must ensure that the kingdom has a strong focus and a strong policy for the Arctic. That is where we live, and that is precisely where our descendants will continue to live. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore work hard to ensure that there is a sincere and strong focus in the Danish Parliament on the approx. 4 million people living in the Arctic today and the living conditions of the Arctic peoples. I have therefore also noted with satisfaction the priorities of the Danish Government in the now presented Arctic statement, in particular the section of the statement that the well-being of the people in the Arctic should remain at the heart of the Arctic strategy and action, and that the government intends to work to ensure that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area. All in all, therefore, we in Inuit Ataqatigiit are also satisfied with the statement. We believe that it is in line with the circumstances that we have discussed in this Chamber before and that have absorbed and absorbed the Greenlandic Parliament, Mr Inatsisartut. This applies, for example, to possible Greenlandic participation in emergency tasks, such as protection of the marine environment and search and rescue services in close cooperation with the Danish defence. In connection with the presentation of the Kingdom's common Arctic strategy, the then Danish Foreign Minister stated that the strategy should primarily ensure a peaceful and secure Arctic. The IA is very much in agreement with that. It is a matter of ensuring peace in the world, among other things. in that the peoples around the world experience a fair measure of freedom, prosperity and democracy, and that the use of military power in the international community should only take place with the consent of the United Nations. It is therefore quite natural for me that we should participate much more actively in the international security policy debate, based on contributions also from Greenland. How is a peaceful world ensured, and what should we as members of the Folketing from Greenland concentrate on? I think it is quite obvious that in this context we are actively addressing the activities taking place in Greenland, including at Thule Air Base, and are also working to ensure that the American military presence is taken into account in the work on the Arctic strategy. In Thule Air Base there is one of the most important centres for satellite-based information gathering in the world, but it is worth noting that Thule Air Base is only reserved for the U.S. military. No other country wishing to serve world peace has access to the information which, among other things, includes: Thule Air Base collects. I think that is wrong. I therefore believe that we should demand that Thule Air Base be developed over time to become an international and not just an American warning and satellite tracking station. Under this policy, the information collected through the installations at Thulebase should in the long term be made available in order to be processed by a relevant UN body responsible for monitoring international agreements on, for example: non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, ban on nuclear tests, ban on experiments on chemical and bacteriological weapons, etc. are observed. If we can get there, I am sure that we will be better able to ensure a much more peaceful and secure Arctic for the world and the approx. 4 million people inhabiting the Arctic today. In conclusion, I would like to remind the government of the recommendations made by the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. In September my colleague, Sara Olsvig, concluded his time in the Folketing as Chairman of the Committee at its Congress in Whitehorse, Canada. At the Congress, the many parliamentarians from all over the Arctic agreed on a wide range of carefully prepared recommendations to the Arctic States and Arctic Councils. I shall now continue the work of Parliament's representative on the Committee and take this opportunity to invite the Danish state and government to take on board the recommendations of the Committee. The Arctic's greatest resource is the people, and it is the human conditions that we must meet to improve. The recent recommendations of the Arctic MEPs stress that the Arctic states should work towards a common understanding of the use of living resources and that markets for traditional products such as seal products should be expanded. We should not see the seal product ban as something that only concerns Greenland or Canada; it is a common Arctic issue that we must tackle together. We must be able to make a living exporting the resources we have, living as non-living, just as we must ensure that we have the opportunity to develop more different industries in the Arctic. As mentioned, IA is satisfied with the government's statement and we look forward to working further with the Arctic in the new Arctic working group of the Danish Parliament, which was formed on the initiative of Inuit Ataqatigiit. Finally, I would like to convey a greeting from my Greenlandic colleague Doris Jakobsen from Siumut, who cannot be here today because of the election campaign in Greenland. She has asked me to say that she sends her comments on the statements directly to the ministers. I'm also here to convey a greeting to you by Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale, newly elected chairman of Parliament's Arctic Working Group under the Nordic Council, who cannot be here today either. Thank you for the explanations and continue to have a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024114803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024114809	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for an extremely comprehensive and exciting rapporteur's speech, in which the rapporteur came up with a great deal of work in relation to the Arctic. I would like to ask the rapporteur a specific question about sealskins and the major problem of Greenland's captors for many different reasons, but among other things. also an EU ban and previous campaigns by certain environmental organisations, virtually impossible to get rid of the sealskins you have. Perhaps the rapporteur has any ideas on how we could strengthen action in this area, for example. in the Nordic Council? It should be possible to use Nordic co-operation to support Greenlandic prisoners on this point. That is one question. I have another question: maybe we'll get into a little bit of a discussion about Kingdom fellowship, but things are connected. The rapporteur mentioned what the Enhedslisten will support, that Greenland and the Faroe Islands should be, if I may say so, more at the table on international issues. Does the rapporteur have any concrete proposals for changes to forms of cooperation or how this can be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024114930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024114933	Thanks to Finn Sørensen. It is true that we also need to do something under the auspices of the Nordic Council in relation to the seal product ban. There is indeed an inuit exception in the European Union, but it does not work as intended. For information, I can inform you that only a few years ago, six years ago, we had a turnover of 60 million. kr. in the Greenlandic tannery in Qaqortoq, which was for the benefit of fishermen and prisoners, especially hunters out in villages and outlying districts. But that turnover has now fallen as much as 6 million. kr. 6 million a year; kr. to a lot of prisoners in the Greenlandic settlements and outlying districts. That's not enough at all. So I'm glad Finn Sørensen points out this relationship. I noticed that the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind, also mentioned that a seal skin is a sustainable product. It is! It is sustainable, which is why the Nordic Council, but also here in the Assembly Hall, must address the problem which, among other things, is at stake. The European Union has helped to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115056	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115100	We'll just have to try to soak our heads. We have said in the past that if we look at the Nordic region as a market, it is one of the major markets in the world • 25 million people, including a whole lot of strong consumers. So perhaps we could do something about Nordic co-operation to remedy the problem we are talking about here. Then I also had another question with regard to foreign policy, about how the rapporteur might more specifically imagine getting closer to the equality and involvement which Enhedslisten is at least warmly supporting in relation to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, when we are talking about the Arctic region in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115153	Thank you again, sir. Finn Sørensen. Participation in foreign and security policy is a matter of great concern to us in IA. I would like to remind you that the former Foreign Minister, Per Stig Møller, reached an agreement with the then President of Greenland, Hans Enoksen, on precisely foreign and security policy issues when it concerns Greenland and the Arctic. Then there was a great deal of agreement about it in writing and is present with us and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it is written in black and white in the Itilleq Declaration that Greenland must be included and guaranteed participation on foreign and security policy issues of particular relevance to Greenland and when it concerns us who live in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115249	Thank you. Then there is another question, and that is from Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115255	First of all, I would like to sign up for a very interesting and strong rapporteur's speech, which I think is very relevant. I stand here both to sign, but in fact also to confess that I think that we often talk about Arctic politics, but that we forget Greenland and the Faroe Islands, that is to say that we forget the people who actually live in a region that we are very interested in, because there are many relevant issues, but also because it suddenly gives Denmark a special and great foreign policy role, and I think we are many who think that is very exciting. But I also think it's embarrassing, and I don't think about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anything like that, but I just think that in general we actually tend to forget you guys who actually live up there. That is why I found what the rapporteur said about how you could be further involved very interesting. I would actually like to ask a little more about that, but also about whether there have been some areas where one has felt that one has not been sufficiently involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115401	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe for her question. It is true that I can cite a number of examples, particularly on foreign and security policy issues, where we in Greenland are not involved, even though we live there and that is what we are concerned with. There have been all these Thule cases that many people here know about, where we haven't been with the withdrawal at all. Fortunately, a little correction has been made by a ruling in the Østre Landsret on the forced relocation of Thulebe residents back in 1953. It's just an example. But there have also been a number of incidents, especially during the Cold War, when Greenland and the Greenlanders were not even informed of what happened in their own country. It was also in connection with Thule Air Base. That is why I also mentioned that it might be interesting to look at how and how Thule Air Base could be used in the future. We would prefer it to be an international forum, such as the United Nations, which operated Thule Air Base and made it available to the international community for peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115530	Thank you. Is there a follow-up question? Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115533	It's a direct extension of it. I also noted the part of the speech on security policy and the fight against the militarisation of the Arctic, and also the specific types of weapons were mentioned. This is something that I fully agree with, and it is, in fact, something that I believe plays a major role in the government. That is why I would just like to know whether we are active enough on that point or whether we could do more. This is an open question to which I hope the rapporteur will answer honestly, because I think it is an area in which we must have great ambitions, and I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur thinks we can do more and what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115621	Thank you, Mrs. Zenia Stampe. In particular, I noticed that Mrs Zenia Stampe, in her speech to the rapporteur, said that we should pay attention to the security policy risks, particularly in the Arctic. After all, as climate change makes it easier to access the many resources on land and at sea, i.e. oil and gas resources, there are major interests. That is why I also paid particular attention to the rapporteur's passage that it is quite worrying if it is militarised. Well, there is evidence that Russia, in particular, is heavily armed in the Arctic, and we have also noticed that Canada is arming quite heavily in the Arctic. So I hope that here in the Danish Parliament, in close cooperation with the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut, and Naalakersuisut, the future Greenlandic government, we will sit down and see how we can minimise this growing security policy risk in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115740	Thank you to the rapporteur from the IA. And then I will give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024115755	Thank you very much, and thank you for many good and thoughtful contributions. As far as Nordic co-operation is concerned, it is of course the Minister in particular who will take note of comments on this. However, allow me to make two general comments on this. I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Bertel Haarder, in that we are experiencing a renaissance within the Nordic region. It is as if the Nordics are the new variety in many other countries. If we look beyond the world, both Europe and farther away, we can see that this is everything, from our crime series to our social models and green pioneering solutions, which at the moment make incredibly many countries look towards Denmark and the other Nordic countries and think: We would really like that kind of society too. This also applies to the many emerging economies, which over the next 15 years will double the world's economy and are now about to choose their new energy model, their education system, their cultural policy, their tax systems and their model of how they want to organise their societies. Many of them are looking towards the Nordic countries, and this is a great opportunity, which we must of course seize also in Nordic co-operation. Because we can have a great influence on foreign policy if we are better at exploiting it. Many have affected that. Both the Social Democrats and the SF had a lot of talk about the greens, and I agree with that. So that's the one consideration I'm going to do about those things. The second is, as Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance put it, that a whole new car is needed not just to look at the engine. I'm really up for it. I always think it is good to shake the bag and throw the balls up and see if they come down differently, at least in the sense that for me there are some obvious areas where I would also like to see that if we look at it from a foreign policy point of view we consider stronger cooperation. This applies to aid policy, as Mr. Steen Gade mentioned in his speech. This is true of the green, which many rapporteurs have also mentioned: the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and Mrs Annette Lind and many others have mentioned, and perhaps also of the defence cooperation that we have indirectly touched on, and where we certainly have a great common interest in the Arctic. Now the Bertel Haarder of the Left was so kind outside the platform to show me a little of what is being discussed in the latest issue of the magazine Foreign Policy News, which is precisely if you could imagine that the Nordics played a stronger role there. At any rate, these are all discussions which, from the point of view of a foreign minister, are worth taking. If we look at all three statements we have before us today overall, then it can be said that both Nordic cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation and, as such, the discussion about the Arctic is about going across and breaking down borders. It is about breaking down border barriers in concrete terms, but it is also about breaking down mental, technical and political boundaries and making it easier for people to cross. Not because we have to forget where each of us comes from. We are Danish, and we continue to be Danish, but because we can strengthen and stimulate the Danish, and we can strengthen and stimulate Nordic cooperation and Baltic Sea cooperation in Europe and the world by standing together and thereby in fact strengthen our own Danishness. That is why I also have to say that I am getting off in return, when both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance like to put up a contradiction between the Nordic and the European. Because I don't see the opposite. First of all, I have a vertical disagreement with the fact that the European Union has not been a successful cooperation. I believe that if we were to point out the greatest geopolitical success in the last 100 years, it must be the European Community which, over the last 20 years, is probably the biggest single cause of the end of the Cold War and that over just 10 years we managed to absorb ten new great nations. This did not happen with coercion, not with military power, not with threats, but by having a social model that they wanted and which the peoples wanted, a social model of prosperity and democracy and without corruption. At least the European Union has been a splendid success. But I fully agree with Mr. Edmund Joensen in that it would be fantastic if all the Nordic countries, including the Faroe Islands and Greenland, wanted to be one hundred percent, so that we could put an even bigger fingerprint both in the EU and in NATO for that matter. That would be nice. It is of course one hundred percent up to those countries to decide and decide for themselves, but from a Danish point of view it would be great to be able to print it, and that would strengthen Nordic co-operation and European cooperation at once. In the whole discussion about whether we are going to have border barriers against Sweden or consider it, we should not put any more words in Mr. Mikkel Dencker, than there was in his rapporteur's speech, I would like to say that this is at least the wrong way to go in my optics. We have to go exactly the opposite way. It's about removing borders. It's about opening up with respect for what we ourselves are. I dare not think about what Danish society or Swedish society would look like if there were no people at all who had come to Denmark or Sweden to contribute in our workforces. Then we have to get down to a little more concrete things. As far as Baltic Sea cooperation is concerned, everyone has said that it is actually an important forum to have in the current situation where, unfortunately, we still have a Ukraine crisis going on where we can have informal discussions. One issue I would like to raise and which I think it is worth paying particular attention to is cooperation in the field of energy. That is because there is therefore a huge potential here to bind the countries around the Baltic Sea better together in an internal energy market. It requires some infrastructure, some cables and also like some gas pipes, but then it will be much, much cheaper to buy energy, also renewable energy, and there is a whole lot of security policy in that too, which I do not have time to go into here. However, this is certainly an area on which I would like to focus a great deal in the coming period. Then, of course, there is the Arctic, which is also an incredibly exciting area. After all, this was a strong speech by Johan Lund Olsen, as Mrs Zenia Stampe also mentioned, and this is not a discussion about the Kingdom community. But let me just sign and say that my experience is that foreign policy cooperation with Greenland has grown considerably in recent years, for example. in international climate negotiations. We have had a good tradition that when the Greenlanders have a special interest in a meeting with the foreign ministers of other countries, we are trying to do so so so that we can hold joint meetings. In the Arctic Council we have had an exemplary collaboration with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and I would like to sign that for both places. Of course, it can always get better, and we must also look at that. In the Arctic cooperation, it will be absolutely crucial to keep a low-voltage track and to keep it in a way so that we can cope with it in a peaceful multilateral framework and keep all weapons very much like A weapons if it can be done out of that area. But there are people who have also been mentioned, and there was a specific question from Edmund Joensen, who asked why the Faroe Islands are not now involved in the business cooperation we have. This isn't a closed club, I'd like to hurry up and say. Now I am myself an accomplice to the fact that this committee was set up, and it did so following an intense debate on mining in Greenland. That's the direct reason we had it. There it became a common Greenlandic and Danish wish that we then looked at how private investment could be promoted, not least in that sector. Then the mandate was extended along the way, but we also have a strong interest in promoting business interests and investments in the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands. The question was also asked about fishing and whether it would be possible to increase fisheries cooperation on farming as well. I believe that the Minister for Nordic Cooperation will say a little more about this, but I would say that this is one of the areas where, if you imagined that everyone would join the European Union, we would be the Nordic countries together, after all, representing a huge percentage of all fisheries in Europe. We could really do something, including with regard to what standards, which fisheries policies were introduced with the right respect for sustainability and all such things. So that's an exciting thought. I think I must say frankly to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there is perspective on that. It's a bit comical that it's the Faroese representative. It's also a discussion in the Faroe Islands, and I'm all over it saying that they'd like it, and then Enhedslisten tries to say that it's the EU's fault that there's been a seal case. It's the other way around. The European Union has fought for the right of the Inuits to be able to sell their sealskins in Europe, and then Canada and others have become angry about it. But it is certainly not the EU's fault; on the contrary, the EU has been Greenland's best champion in this matter. Finally, Mr. Lars Barfoed asked a specific question about cruise ships. I fully share the concern because there is a lot of sailing and it is important that we do what we can to have a high level of safety. This is an extremely difficult task. Let us put it plainly because it is a huge area. The water's freezing, and it's extreme waters. After all, we cannot do so much more than we do in relation to international waters. It is the IMO that can regulate there, and that is where we have to push for everything we can, and we are doing so. So you can discuss: What can Greenland and Denmark do together in the inland waters in relation to Greenland? There I have become aware that Greenland actually now, before the elections in Greenland were held, planned to introduce a fee on cruise ships, which would then go to be able to increase security and preparedness in relation to these cruise ships. This is something we have also encouraged Greenland to do, and we think that is a very sensible and good way to go. But in addition, it may well be that we can increase our preparedness together. Now Mr. Lars Barfoed it with twin ships and something like that. I would like to say that, on a personal level, I fully agree that this would be extremely sensible, but that obviously requires us to agree with the Greenlanders. However, I would like to give an undertaking that this is something that we will take up and discuss as soon as we have a new Greenlandic government. I think it is a serious issue and we owe it to the tourist industry in Greenland, but indeed also to the safety of all the people who move in the area, to take it seriously. Now I have some doubts, President, about how this is done in terms of procedure. Should I take questions now, or should my colleague take over here and take it all? That would be nice, but I don't know how it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024120940	I think the easiest thing is to take questions now, first to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then to continue with the Minister for Nordic Cooperation afterwards. The first one in the line of questioning is then sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024120956	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his oral statement. When we talk about the Arctic, there are no significant differences. I haven't actually checked them out. We have also joined the Arctic strategy that has been put into the kingdom by Enhedslisten. And it is good that we have a common platform to discuss on the basis of. I just had to react to the Minister's interpretation of what I had said. I did not say that it was the European Union's fault, but it is clear that the European Union's policy in this area, in relation to such a seal skin ban, where there is an inuit exemption, is part of it, it can be said that there is prejudice among the European peoples about not buying seal skins. But I did not say that it was the European Union's fault, so I would just like to correct that. I have another such a little more general and important question, I think, myself at least: is the Minister for Foreign Affairs satisfied with the preparedness we can provide in the Arctic today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121106	I'm sorry if I misunderstood, sir. Finn Sørensen. It was just important for me to clarify that I actually think that the European Union has done a lot on this issue. I also agree that it would be best to have a full import not only in the European Union, but also in terms of sustainable skins from seals. But that is where we obviously agree. As far as preparedness is concerned, it can be said that the challenge in Greenland is that the area is so incredibly large and that, even if it has risen, the journey is still so relatively low that it per year. ship is a very high cost to have a huge preparedness. When will an alert be okay? It's hard to answer clearly. I would like to see the rules for sailing tightened, both internationally and perhaps also in relation to inland waters, if we can find a sensible way of doing so, which does not make it extremely expensive for ships to sail there at all. However, I think there is room for improvement, not least in relation to international rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121220	Was there another question? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121221	Thank you. I appreciate the Secretary of State's announcement on this. After all, we also have one, to say the least, devastating criticism from the National Audit Office, which in fact says very harshly that the preparedness is totally inadequate. We do not have the tools and equipment to deal with a major shipping disaster there. I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that if we can otherwise agree with the Greenlanders, then I fully agree that we should be on such a step, then we ourselves can lay down the rules, at least within the part of the maritime territory that we sovereignly decide. I guess that's understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121311	Now I will take the reservation that I am not a sea lawyer, but as I understand it, the regulation of inland waters is, in principle, something left to Denmark and Greenland itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121328	The next question is Mr. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121332	I understood from the long speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank you for the fact that the government disagrees with the view I made on behalf of the Danish People's Party in my rapporteur's speech, namely that at some point we may be in a situation where we need to consider whether we should continue to have these rules which make other Nordic countries' citizens have free access to social benefits in Denmark. The situation is, of course, that Sweden distributes asylum status with a rather round hand compared to the Danish situation, and after a few years you can also get Swedish citizenship with a rather round hand. The problem with this is that if Sweden does not manage to integrate these refugees and fails to get them into work and so has to provide them with social benefits, then we risk that Swedish society will start to limit its size of benefits because it simply does not have the money, and therefore there can be a further exodus to Denmark because you have equal access to Danish social benefits. Is that really what the government thinks is completely unproblematic if that situation arises?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121440	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121442	I do not know whether we are going to have a very big debate here today about the free movement of workers and the advantages and disadvantages of complementing the workforce we have, in a situation where the workforce is falling, where more and more people are retiring and where we have a serious problem of getting enough labour both in Sweden and in Denmark. That is not quite the theme, but I must say that, as a starting point, I believe that we have an enormous advantage from the fact that we can work across the Øresund bridge, that we can move back and forth. I see no sign whatsoever that Swedes are starting to come to Denmark to receive social assistance. At any rate, these are not figures that I have been made aware of in any way whatsoever, and therefore I do not consider the discussion about increasing border barriers or border controls to be relevant either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121535	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121537	No, there's no problem right now, I acknowledge that. But I anticipate that the situation can arise, and that is why it is important that we take the discussion on whether that is what we should have in Denmark. I understood from the Minister in the first speech that there should be no restrictions on Nordic citizens' access to social benefits in Denmark. So is it government policy that the citizens of our neighbouring countries should have free access to Danish social benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121606	It's a funny way of setting it up. Firstly, the vast majority of foreigners who come to Sweden as well as to Denmark work and contribute to the community. If you settle in Denmark, pay your taxes, do everything that Danes and Danish citizens do, then of course you have the same rights, since you have the same duties, neither more nor less. That's how it is when Danes settle in Malmö. This is the case, of course, and should also be the case when Swedes settle in Denmark. Obligations and rights go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121641	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121646	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement that my rapporteur's speech was a strong one. Thank you. I noticed that I think it was once in August, about the end of August, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a chronicle in Politiken, I think, where he presented Denmark's visions of foreign policy. What I noticed in particular when I read the chandelier was that the Arctic was not mentioned in a single word not a single sentence, not a single word. I found this very regrettable, knowing that the Foreign Minister was on a private holiday on a decommissioned reindeer farm at Nuuk this summer, and it is also known that the Foreign Minister was a child in Greenland. So what I would like to know to be clarified is: Has the Foreign Minister changed his attitude, or was it just a banal or a banal thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121757	I have not grown up in Greenland, but I can confirm that I have spent much of my childhood in Greenland, and that I feel very close to both Greenland and Greenlanders. I can hear that I should have written a section on the Arctic into that chronicle too, because I have certainly had a lot of smoke on the part of the IA, but I also hope that Inuit Ataqatigiit has seen the many speeches I have had on Arctic cooperation and on how much it fills also when I joined as Foreign Minister, in the accession interviews I gave there. And I can guarantee that the Arctic fills a great deal in my foreign policy universe and that it will continue to do so, and I look forward very much to working with a future Greenlandic government, whatever it may be, in this area. I think it should be said bluntly: Denmark needs Greenland incredibly much. Denmark needs the Faroe Islands incredibly much. You fill a lot in our understanding of ourselves and in our foreign policy. Therefore, it would seem to me to be completely unthinkable that we should not also base our foreign policy thinking on very strong cooperation in the Kingdom Community with both Greenland and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121911	Then the next remark from Mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024121918	I would like to follow up the discussion on twin ships, i.e. the fact that cruise ships must be followed by two and two within a certain distance, so that one ship can save the other ship's passengers if there is an accident. It is, of course, the case that we can never get a rescue response so that we can get out of here with sufficient capacity and save passengers in such a situation that we cannot rule out one day. I therefore welcome the Minister's positive attitude to this, but I do not understand why it is not more clear in the statement that it is working for the Danish Government internationally. I would also like to ask the Minister: will the Minister give an undertaking that this will be dealt with in concrete terms with the new Greenlandic leadership so that we can jointly establish a rule on twin shipping in our inland waters in the Arctic? Is this something the government wants to take concrete action on?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122016	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122017	Let me admit frankly that I do not have detailed knowledge of what discussions have been between the Danish Emergency Management Authority and Greenland on the other hand in this question. But I would very much like to examine it, and instinctively I think it sounds like a very sensible idea to bring it up. This will, of course, require agreement between Greenland and Denmark. It is possible that there are some arguments against which I cannot see through right here on a stand-by basis, but I think instinctive, as Mr. Lars Barfoed said it sounds like a very reasonable idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122057	Yes, because I think I must say that this is something that has been up for a long time, but it is as if nothing is happening. This is due to the negotiations in the IMO, and we must push for that. But then we must at least do what we can as far as our inland waters are concerned, as long as there is no international rule on that. I can only say that we in the Conservative People's Party will then be following very closely what the government is doing in this respect, and probably also asking some questions about it, because our consideration is to make proposals here in the Folketing on such a rule. But we would like it to be just something that we could put in place in cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122136	As I said, I understand that the Conservative People's Party is preoccupied with this matter. I also think that the solution that is being outlined has much to do with it, so I would very much like to examine the potentials of it and any barriers that may exist. Let's get back to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122153	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122156	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for both frank and visionary responses to the speeches that have been made. As I mentioned in my speech, Thorvald Stoltenberg has been in this House, precisely on 8 May, and there he wondered on two points about the failure to implement some of the proposals he has made in the so-called Stoltenberg report. One point concerns embassy cooperation, which he does not think has gone far enough. Instead of cooperating, embassies are closed and he cannot see that there is anything wrong if the countries have a common foreign policy in a field where an ambassador can substitute for an ambassador from another country. As a second point, he does not think that the joint Nordic Maritime Coast Guard force has sufficed. I think that the proposal for a joint North Atlantic Coast Guard force fits very well into the debate we have had here on the Arctic, because it is a question of a force in the Arctic. This proposal is further updated by the fact that the head of the Defence Academy, Nils Wang, who is also a Rear Admiral, in the new foreign policy journal, published by the Foreign Policy Society, also proposes that we consider a joint Nordic naval intervention force, i.e. not just a coastguard force, but a joint Nordic naval intervention force. When a leading Danish military man can suggest this, it suggests that Thorvald Stoltenberg was talking about something right. That is why I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he is prepared to ask his officials to describe how this could be achieved, if necessary, so that the Foreign Minister can take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122408	Good questions. With regard to the common embassy thinking, I very much agree that this is a beautiful, practical and economic perspective. We have already shown both in Berlin and in Maputo that it can be done with great grace and architectural beauty and also with a great impact I think for all the countries that are involved. In fact, we are also involved in three out of the five projects mentioned in the ministerial declaration which Mr. Bertel Haarder refers to, namely in Yangon, Islamabad and Dakar. I also know that in some places, because I've been out there, there are some problems. Funny enough it has, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There may be some conservation provisions; there may be many small devils in the detail that make it difficult in practice. But I actually agree with the vision, and I agree that we must do so, and then we must try to overcome the barriers that exist without, however, becoming a closed club, because in some places the Baltic countries also want to join in. It is also an interesting perspective, by the way, that I think the Baltic countries are closer to Nordic co-operation. But in that spirit, and that is also in the spirit in which I hear it, I fully agree. As far as the more defence policy is concerned, I think it sounds exciting. We may have an interface here with the Ministry of Defence, and I'll be careful not to get myself into too much of what the government is planning to do here. But I understand that the Secretary of Defense is taking part in a debate on this in the Things in the foreseeable future. But I do think that there are some interesting perspectives in this, and parts of the joint Nordic coastal cooperation are quite right in the Stoltenberg cooperation, which we have taken a position on in principle and which I would like to pursue at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122555	Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122557	I am pleased with all the progress that has been made in the area of embassy cooperation, but in the case of Berlin, it is surely a garden wall that is strictly common. There isn't much cooperation in that garden wall, I'm afraid. I also agree that cooperation with other countries can also be achieved. In Lithuania, as far as I remember, we are working together on a domestic community with the Netherlands. And it can also be good. But I will bow to the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he thinks that the last question belongs to the next debate, where I will also raise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122636	Thanks to Bertel Haarder. And then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122642	I admit that it is the solution in Berlin that we have merged the embassies. But I think there's a signal value in that when you get there, all the flags are there, and you can see different Nordic design and architecture. But it is certainly true that it is more of a cultural nature than of a political and technical nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122701	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Nordic Cooperation who will pick up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024122713	Look, I think today is a big day. I was thinking when I was going in here this morning that I, as Minister, will be allowed to lead a really exciting discussion on the Nordic issue with the Foreign Minister. This is my first debate on the Nordic issue, so I have been looking forward to it. I put on my finest clothes and my red tie. So I'm gonna tell you, it's great. I myself was a member of the Nordic delegation and I can say that I think a great deal has happened. I'll give Mr. Bertel Haarder and other debaters are right that it is not only in the EU that it is snowing. No, the Nordics are cool, and there is also snow in the streets of the Nordics, I would like to say to Mr. Steen Gade. There's porridge in it. And I think I can see that there is a very broad consensus on the importance of Nordic work. Then, of course, there are different political approaches to it. I have taken note of the comments and I will ensure that they are taken into account in the forthcoming work. I would like to start by thanking you for the broad support I believe that both Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Bertel Haarder and others mentioned this and the support for the reform of the policy in the Nordic Council of Ministers, but also the fact that we actually know the savings we have highlighted where there was a discussion about whether it was just a saving, has done a great deal of reform work around the whole budget. What kind of work do we focus and prioritise? I can say that in the Council of Ministers in which I took part there have been some very, very exciting, important political discussions about what priorities we want. We have made priorities budgets. There have been discussions about what we should promote and what we should not promote. I think it has been for the benefit of the Nordic countries that we now focus, we prioritise, and we look at how we use the funds. There were some things that Mr. Lars Barfoed wanted it, and I would like to say that we have made a brief and focused statement because the delegation wanted it and, as Mr. Bertel Haarder expressed the last year in connection with the Minister for Defence's statement on Nordic co-operation, it can be said that a statement must be like a bikini: as small as possible, but it must cover the essentials, and that is why we do not have everything. I hope that the President will pass on my picture if it is inappropriate here, but we do not cover the whole body, so to speak, with the bikini here, because there are plenty of things in the Nordics, both in the presidency's proposal, and in relation to what is really going far over cultural work, the historical work and so on. So that is in it, but this year we have chosen to give priority to the wishes of the delegation as well. Of course, in the statement we give priority to our achievements and to what we have achieved together, but may I not say that we have come a long way in relation to the wishes of the committees on health and border barriers. Finally, the report concludes with perspectives for Nordic co-operation, where we naturally revolve around the Presidency programme for next year, and this has been the main point of reference for it. The statement can be summed up with the words of a well-known Danish song, which is more easily reworded: that it snaps in the joints and ties of Nordic co-operation. But it is positive because, as Kirkegaard wisely said, everyone wants development, but no change. After all, the process of change is under way. I didn't have to say anything to Mr. Knox. Edmund Joensen and the question raised in relation to the Presidency programme, that of course there is a whole programme behind what the Presidency programme says, namely to launch a project in which relevant authorities and businesses, in cooperation, identify challenges and opportunities for sustainable growth based on the efficient use of maritime resources in the North Atlantic. I would like to say to Greenland and the Faroe Islands that we have had a great deal of cooperation along the way with these presidency projects, and there have also been some that we have not been able to honour within the Presidency project, but we have then tried to find other opportunities to exploit them. Of course, I am happy to send both to the delegation and to Mr. Edmund Joensen what's behind it, because it's a lot more than these two lines that lie. But I agree that this offers some very, very exciting prospects in relation to the further work on that part. May I not say, then, that sir... Edmund Joensen also raises a question about what is actually stated in that statement and why nothing has emerged from last year's debate about the border barriers within the Commonwealth. It can be said that it was raised in the debate last year, as I understand it I did not participate myself but it was decided to make a statement about the real Nordic border barriers in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Within the national community, the Ministry of Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs launched a consultation with all the ministries in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and the Home Rule Government of Greenland with a view to drawing up a comprehensive overview. There I can say that it is the case that we are looking at it at the moment, and we have done a lot of work in this way, but we need to get consultation answers, so that is what is being worked on. Moreover, I can refer to the Ministry of Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs regarding that discussion, but it is working actively with it, and it is over there that it is at the moment. It's just to hold on to that part of it. Then I would say that the course taken by the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation at my first meeting of Ministers for Cooperation, by the way, two days after I became Minister for Cooperation, was that we set out a common vision for Nordic co-operation. It's called "Together we're stronger," and that suits me as a Social Democrat incredibly well. In this declaration of vision, we set the goal that Nordic co-operation should continue to be renewed in order to ensure that in the long term cooperation remains a really strong tool for the Nordic governments to address the political challenges that may exist. Cooperation must also be so dynamic that it is constantly adapted to the needs of the countries and the current issues. And so it is constantly adapted to the Nordic discussion, and the cooperation must be anchored in popularity, so that it focuses on concrete issues. Maybe that's it, sir. Bertel Haarder mentioned when he asked me that I said that it might be a little boring and a little old-fashioned. But I also think, as I also started by saying to Mr. Steen Gade: This is where it snows; this is where it's cool. And we are dealing with the specific issues. Of course, there will be a discussion which often remains in these contexts, namely whether we should continue with the consensus policy, one might say. I would say that no decisions have been taken on this, but I think it is an exciting discussion to have, and we must then keep it alive and keep it going, because I think it is necessary that we also use the momentum that I feel there is at the moment to keep up with how we develop Nordic co-operation. I myself, at the meeting of the Ministers for Cooperation, have also raised this issue. I do not think we are ready to change agreements or anything else, but I think it is important that we keep the discussions on that part of it going. Then I think it is important that, when we work together, cooperation should be focused. The focus should be on interventions that are visible. It should be focused on the need for measurable effects. There must also be a profile to the outside world, which must be so clear that we can see the value of Nordic co-operation and the Nordic identity, and we must of course make full use of that. Nordic co-operation must be relevant to the Nordic citizens, and it must also be relevant to our parliamentarians and to governments both in internal and international matters. In short, the Nordic countries must create benefits and add value, and this must lead to concrete political results. I think that is important to say in relation to the modernisation process we are engaged in. In addition, the objectives we set must be clear to everyone, and that will also be the common thread of the Danish Presidency. One might say that here we are really going to taste our own medicine, because we have to live up to these fine objectives. I also believe that we are doing so with the presidency programme that will be presented in Stockholm next week at the Nordic Council session. In the same statement I mentioned, the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation set out a series of visions which can be summed up in the fact that in the coming years we want a borderless Nordic region, an innovative Nordic region, a very visible Nordic region and an outgoing Nordic region. I couldn't have formulated it more beautifully myself, so that's why I've taken it from there. But the boundless Nordic region is, of course, about creating the optimum conditions for citizens and businesses to move freely between the Nordic countries. I therefore agree with other colleagues, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who have said that we are not going to create new barriers to the border, and I would therefore ask you to do so. Bertel Haarder and Mr. Mikkel Dencker think a lot about it before they move into the lane that Mr. Mikkel Dencker was on. I believe that during the Danish Presidency we must step up this effort to abolish border barriers, including ensuring new international legislation, and for the Nordic countries to implement EU legislation so that it does not create new border barriers in the Nordic region. In practical terms, we have done this by being a pioneering country by drawing up a national agreement on the removal of border barriers, which is also dealt with in this report. I welcome the many fine words, but I must also say here that we must not rest on the laurels, as it were. I have called a new meeting here in November to look at where we can innovate and where we can succeed, and I am actually also going to try to see whether this can also be part of the growth agenda, as I said to the delegation yesterday, so that we can make it central in the discussions we are going to have on border barriers. Because I think that very good growth is really going to waste • excuse the phrase • by the fact that there are a number of border barriers that we have not had removed in dialogue with each other. But I would also like to say that we are actually succeeding in some of this. I am thinking here, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for his excellent report. The removal of other border barriers still requires a great deal of work. This is true, for example. work experience for the unemployed who stalled because the former Swedish Minister did not want to carry out a pilot project for Denmark and Sweden. However, my colleague, the Minister for Employment, has promised to contact his new Swedish colleague and press for a solution. We are therefore continuing the work of the Presidency, and it is my wish, and that of the Prime Minister, that we should tighten up and tighten up so that we can continue to be at the forefront in this area. Specifically, I would like to say, and this is perhaps a little new, that we would like to draw up a catalogue of concrete initiatives, including in relation to specific border barriers, which should be focused on during the Presidency, and we will take it up during each and every Council of Ministers we are dealing with during the Presidency. In this context, I would like to invite the delegation to take part in this work so that we have a common national basis to work on. Then, in order to supplement this work, I will set up a working group of representatives of industry and the trade union movement who will be advisors in the removal of border barriers. It goes without saying that Ole Stavad, who is the government's representative on the border prevention committee, has a key role to play in this work and, as I said before, I have called the delegation to a meeting on that part of it after the Nordic Council session. In conclusion, I can say that there are porridges in Nordic co-operation. We are no longer seen as the old man of Europe. On the other hand, we must be careful that we are not seen as an annoying and perhaps a bit naughty teenager trying to impose the right attitudes on other countries, but I think it is actually possible to find the right balance. In any case, I am delighted that we have got off to a good start. I look forward to the presidency, and this at a time when a fresh wind is actually blowing through the Nordic capitals, and when it actually snows from time to time, Mr. Steen Gade. It is not just hot air, I should like to say hello. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124004	Thank you, Minister. Well, then, sir. Finn Sørensen signed in for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124009	Thank you, Minister. I am also glad that the Minister put on some nice clothes, as have the others, but I think the Minister should take a look at his tie, because a Social Democratic Minister for Cooperation should come up with a clear, full-on red tie in such a debate here. It was just a friendly advice. Otherwise, I think the Minister has got off to a good start. I feel a commitment on the part of the Minister to Nordic co-operation, and I think that is the first condition for us to be able to breathe new life into it. I think I had some challenges in my rapporteur's speech to the Minister, to whom I had been looking forward to having some comments. I do not want to repeat everything here, but just call for a slightly clearer approach to the issue of savings. These are specifically the institutions I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech: the Nordic Journalist Centre, the Nordic Houses, the Nordic Summer College. What are the factual reasons for saving these institutions, which are, in many ways, the core institutions of Nordic co-operation and which each has a very good reason for their existence? I'd like to hear a little bit about that. How can this be linked to the Minister's fine remarks that we are stronger together and that we must also strengthen our cooperation in such areas? I don't think it's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124146	Yes, please. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124147	I'd like to thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for congratulating my tie, but now I think it has the color that a red tie should have when you are a Social Democrat and Mr. Sørensen. Bertel Haarder also shows a nice color here. Having said that, I would like to say that I came to the middle of the process where these savings were being implemented. In fact, I feel, and this is also what I have talked to our Secretary-General in the Nordic countries, that this has led to quite different processes in the Nordic countries. I would also like to say that we in Denmark have also done so, that in European cooperation we have looked at the cost side and have also done consolidations here. That is why I think it is important that we have looked all around. And then you can discuss the way in which it is implemented. But we have deliberately done so instead of the Council of Ministers doing so, that we have added it to the individual areas where savings have been found. And so it is, sir. Finn Sørensen, that you look at it, and there I am delighted that we have found 1 million. kr. to the Nordic Journalist Centre, as I explained yesterday. But we must also admit that we cannot save on budgets without hurting someone, because at least someone has been sitting there who hasn't done anything. Or nothing has happened in these areas, and I do not believe that. That is why it is important to say so, but also to add that the savings we have made have, at least in a number of areas so far, corresponded to the surplus that has been in the budgets, i.e. unspent funds. This year alone, it says 33 million. kr. in unused funds which are roughly equivalent to the proposed reduction in the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124327	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124328	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is true that the colour of the Minister's tie is apparently the colour of a socialist minister's tie at these times. I am thinking in particular of the heavy blue stripes in it. Minister for Nordic Cooperation Mr. Finn Sørensen is color blind). But apart from that, there is no point in wiping out responsibility in the areas of the whole organization which have been instructed to save something and which then sit in their despair and move around and drive around with the green harvester and save on some things where it is clearly inappropriate. There is no point in wiping them off as the Council of Ministers, for they have been dictated that they should now find so many percent on their territory. In the end, the Council of Ministers itself takes political responsibility, and that is why I am calling for what the factual reasons are for saving on the institutions I mentioned. If they're superfluous, they haven't done anything, and we might as well save on them? What are the real reasons for saving? We have to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124443	I'd like to ask you, sir. Finn Sørensen to look very carefully at my tie, there are no blue stripes, but there are some that are more red than others, and it is very good to know for Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen. But I have often had discussions with Enhedslisten too about numbers in other contexts, and sometimes I have the impression that the tab is raised so high that the feet cannot reach the ground. It is unfortunate because some of us have to be on the ground because we cannot just continue to predict the budget and say: it must now cost what it will, because we must never change it again. I think that this process of saving that we have been through has been absolutely crucial for the renewal of the budget and for transparency, which is also being worked on among delegation representatives. Then it is put out because we actually think that I will accept my responsibility, and the government will do so that it is those who sit on the individual areas of the Nordic budget who know the most about where there is the opportunity to pick up the money and where you can do it in the best way in terms of prioritising the funds. So that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124539	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124542	I would like to thank the Minister for his comments on culture, and I am pleased that there is more to it in the statement on culture and history. Nevertheless, I think it should have been included in the statement, and when I put some emphasis on it and highlighted it in my speech, it is because of what I said there is in the air, that is, the question mark that is constantly being put: what is the value of Nordic co-operation? After all, we have the European Union and we work together globally in a wide range of areas. Then why do we need this special Nordic co-operation? The children and young people who are growing up today are therefore growing up in a world where they are under the influence of the world and the European, and if we do not make an active effort to anchor our common Nordic culture and history • our Nordic education • also in relation to children and young people who are growing up, then I doubt that the Nordic co-operation, which we stress and which we believe to be of value, will consist in future generations, because they grow up without understanding it, without having it in their lives. That is why I think that, although it may seem to be something that is not of immediate use, it is something if we also think a little strategic, which is of great importance and which we must give priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124703	I actually tried a little humorous maybe to say that a bikini shouldn't cover the whole body. It is because the delegation itself has actually asked for the explanations to be given in a special short format. This year, we have been asked to discuss a number of different areas in connection with the report here in relation to the reform work in the Nordic Council of Ministers, the border barriers, it has been part of it and, of course, the vision for the further work in the Nordic Council of Ministers that we have written in. So the border barriers are a big part of it. It is not because there is no extensive work going on that will also be noted in the Stockholm session on culture in the Nordic countries. I believe that this is at least one of the most important areas, and this is one of the areas which also takes a great deal of money in Nordic co-operation, i.e. cultural cooperation, which I also think is important. So here I think we agree. So you can always say: should I now go against the wishes of the delegation and put some others on here? That is, of course, something that can always be assessed, but I have tried to follow what we agreed with the delegation in the statement I have given to Parliament. And I think sir... Lars Barfoed had to take it up with the delegation, that is to say the emphasis on culture and the historical part; then I would like to come in. What I just want to say is that there are plenty of Nordic publications dealing with culture and there is very, very extensive cooperation in the cultural field in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124829	The next brief remark is from Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124833	Thank you to the Minister for the opening speech. I took note of the fact that the Minister is very concerned about the need to remove border barriers, and I would also like to admit that this can be very good in many contexts, but there may also be contexts in which the existence of border barriers can be a good thing. I am thinking here of if at some point we find ourselves in a situation where a large number of the many asylum seekers that Sweden is now receiving and who acquire Swedish citizenship will apply to Denmark to benefit from the Danish social system. Does the government believe that in this context it will continue to be a good thing and that there should be no restrictions on how many Swedes can come to Denmark and receive social benefits? Is that supposed to be completely limitless?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024124928	Today, if you are a Swedish national or a Danish citizen, you have some rights. Sir. Mikkel Dencker said in his own speech that he would not interfere in Swedish asylum and refugee policy, and if you become a Swedish citizen, you have the rights that go with it. There are rights and duties, as the Foreign Minister said, and we certainly do not intend to change that. I think, sir. Mikkel Dencker and the Danish People's Party should think carefully before building new border barriers. I feel that the boundless Nordic region for which I work brings a great deal of added value in terms of what we can make from money. We know that the Nordic region is the largest export market for Denmark at all, and the fact that we can exchange services, education, labour across borders, etc. is an invaluable asset. In fact, the Nordic countries have an economy like Mr. Bertel Haarder said it's bigger than Russia's, and they have 140 million inhabitants; we're well over 20 million. So we're not gonna go that way, and I haven't heard anyone else except Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker make a reality that today is no problem, a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125040	Well, I acknowledge there's no problem right now, and I hope there won't be anything either. That is why I still ask the government whether the government believes that there should always be free and equal access for the citizens of our neighbouring countries to settle in Denmark and receive social benefits from day one. Does it always have to be, regardless of the number?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125104	Now I understand that Mr. Mikkel Dencker will only have problems with the borderless Nordic Region and Nordic co-operation at the moment some people become citizens of Sweden who have a different background. We are not going to change that; we are going to maintain the good cooperation and want to expand it. I also understand that the rest of the delegation would like to contribute to this development. We insist that we want to remove border barriers, we do not want to create new border barriers. The Danish People's Party must then fight for Swedish citizens not to have the right to come to Denmark. They may, but we do not want to take the fight we want to go the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125141	Then it is the last to make brief comments. Sir. Steen Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125146	Thank you, Minister. When the Minister emphasizes that efforts to remove border barriers must be given priority, my question to the Minister is this: will the Minister sit down and try to think through the proposal I made, that one must also have a process and a mechanism so that when one removes border barriers one is concerned with harmonising to the highest level, or at least to a high level?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125225	First of all, I think it is an important matter, and I think we also have a tradition of discussing how high we should be and we do not have a tradition of going down when we do so. After all, I cannot guarantee that it will be the highest level in all cases. But that is what we are going for, because we have very, very high standards in the Nordic countries in the environmental field and elsewhere. So I do not really see it and have not seen it as a major problem, I would like to say, and I would like to hear about it if there are some places where we should have harmonised downwards. But I have not heard of it, I would like to say, because we are quite high. What I have proposed today is that we should draw up a specific catalogue of what we would like to do further. After all, we are going to meet in the near future and talk about border barriers. The second thing I have said is that we are now setting up a council in which both the trade union movement and the business community are represented and can advise on what they are also experiencing. We have had a great deal of pleasure in discussing with the construction industry, which has, of course, made representations and in which I raised it at a bilateral meeting with Norway's Minister for Cooperation here recently. I'm kind of the practical man here. I would also like to see the results of what we are doing and we would like to prioritise it, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125331	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125333	Well, I like practical people. That is actually why I propose it. I just did not think the Minister's reply was very accommodating when it comes down to it, because in relation to what he said about saying that we all think this way, that is not the way it is. In fact, in the European Union we have created such a mechanism and are committed to harmonising in this direction. That is what I am saying: yes, you can just say that we have to do that at the Nordic level. Do I have any examples of that? But when you read the report that has been sent, you see that there is an example in it. I thought it was an easy case. It says it's about fire protection. I mean, it's not finished, but if you read it, and I have actually done so, you can see that there is a discussion about fire protection rules. I am not judging it; I can only say that we have a case of this kind on the table, so the Minister ought to intervene and answer me: well, we are looking at that. We are making suggestions on how to have such a mechanism. So I am not asking for a fine mechanism, just as you have in the European Union, as long as you have a mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125442	As I said, there is no problem. I just wanted to say that this fire safety case isn't finished yet. We don't know where it ends. So, I don't know if Mr. Steen Gade can predict the future. That's what Storm P said, namely that the hardest thing to predict is the future. But if there's anything here, I'd like to see if we can't harmonize to the highest level. That's one. The second is: let us look at whether there are any challenges or problems in it, and if so, let us take it up again. I have not experienced there should be any problems in it, because we harmonise towards the highest level ■ as a rule. If we don't, it's because there's no reason. If it ain'tbroke, why fix it? If that's how it's about to be broken, let's see if we shouldn't do it. In fact, I would like to signal a willingness to enter into that discussion and then take it up and work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125531	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125535	As far as fire safety is concerned, it is Denmark which has particularly strict rules on how thick the rockwool plates should be, and the Minister for Climate and Energy has so justified that the Danes cannot tolerate living under the unsafe Swedish fire safety conditions. That is, of course, nonsense, and that is why I would like to support Mr Seligman's report. Steen Gade and urge the Minister that Denmark at least do its part in the work to ensure that we have common standards in the building sector, so that we can also buy and sell across borders. That was not a question and the Minister does not have to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125616	I can confirm to Mr. Bertel Haarder, that I would like to work to ensure that we have common standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125621	That was the last brief remark made to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, and then I consider the debate on this point to be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125637	The first rapporteur is Bertel Haarder from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024125656	Thank you to the Minister for Defence for a very good and full debate, which shows the momentum of the prospectful Nordic defence cooperation, which has been made possible after the end of the Cold War, which gave Finland and thus Sweden new opportunities to participate in foreign and defence policy cooperation. I remember right after the change of government in 2011, when there was the Nordic Council session here in this Chamber, that the Swedish Foreign Minister, Carl Bildt, gave a long and visionary talk about everything we were supposed to work together on in defence. I could not help but interpret it in such a way that we had a man here, and now I dare to say it because he has resigned, who really wanted Sweden to be a member of NATO, but when it was a little difficult and we Danes should be able to understand that; we have shown some keeping that we find it difficult to get rid of in the EU context, he would at least de facto get as close to NATO as possible, and that was then confirmed again when the Swedish defence chief, Sverker Göranson, admitted that the Swedish defence is not worth much in itself without there being cooperation with other countries. It wouldn't hold Sweden for more than a week, he said. That is one of the reasons why Nordic defence cooperation is so far-sighted. Shortly after Carl Bildt's visionary speech, the Foreign Ministers adopted joint air surveillance over Iceland. This means that it was on an exercise basis as stated in the statement, and it was Swedish and Finnish aircraft together with Norwegian aircraft that carried out this surveillance of the Icelandic air space. I am pleased to see that the Minister writes in the statement, and I quote: The opportunities for a new similar joint-nordic participation in the air-air policy of Iceland are now being examined, including in connection with the participation of Danish aircraft in the patrol. I think that sounds promising, and I hope that the Minister has a positive attitude to it, what I am sure of, otherwise he would not write it. We could then raise the question of whether such a model of joint surveillance or guarding could also be used in the case of Greenlandic air territory, where both Mr. Finn Sørensen and others have noted that the Danish surveillance is extremely lax in every respect, as the Danish National Audit Office has described. At last year's Nordic Council session in Oslo, the then Greenlandic chairman suggested that we have a joint Nordic drone squadron. I don't think she was thinking about killer drones; I think she was thinking about surveillance drones. And it is possible that this is a good idea. It may also be that it was something that would address the Greenlandic politicians. I don't know. I just think it is quite obvious that, now that the Nordic countries are jointly responsible for monitoring and guarding so much of the North Atlantic and the Arctic, which are becoming increasingly important, closer cooperation is being considered, including the recovery of the very large Swedish and Finnish aircraft forces, from which the rest of us may need help when monitoring such a large area. The minister writes that NORDEFCO, in other words the Nordic defence cooperation, is running so well because it is completely unbureaucratic and based on fundamental principles of transparency, non-exclusiveness, that is, that the countries that want to participate and that those who do not want to do so are not included, and I can see the strength of that. I also mentioned that in the previous paragraph, namely that it is the opposite of the principle of consensus that they are willing to cooperate. There's just one problem with that model, and that's it, sir. Steen Gade has pointed out several times that there is a risk that there will be no driving force. So if that model is to work, it presupposes ministers who, like Carl Bildt and others, really want something. Then they can drive it through. If they go down a little, then there is no one to drive things forward, and I would just like to urge the Minister to bear this in mind, because this very unbureaucratic model means that it is a number of countries that drive separately, and the only thing that is common is these assemblies of ministers and heads at different levels. They have no common secretariat to stick to, and they will then have to compensate for that by paying extra attention to their task of driving things forward. Then I would like to remind the Minister for Defence of the Stoltenberg report, which is also well mentioned in the statement. There are 13 points, most of which are in good shape. This is true, for example. also with cybersecurity, which I am pleased to be included in the report and which is and above all can become an extremely important area for Nordic cooperation. However, as I said to the Foreign Minister a moment ago, Thorvald Stoltenberg was here on 8 May, and he was both dissatisfied with the fact that the embassy cooperation has been too little, but he also mentioned another area which he thought had been too little, and this concerns his proposal for a joint Norwegian coastguard force in the Arctic. I do not think that much has happened, and I think it is a very relevant proposal, and I see myself confirmed in it by reading the last issue of Foreign Affairs, where the head of the Defence College, Rear Admiral Nils Wang, proposes that we not only have a joint Norwegian coastguard force, but also a joint Norwegian naval force. This is something that wants something and which is also relevant to think about in connection with Danish purchases of not only aircraft but also ships. So I hope that is part of the Minister's thinking. There is one thing that is absolutely certain, and that is that the Nordic citizens are one hundred percent for such cooperation. It is us politicians who are a little slow. We are behind in relation to our people, just as we are behind in relation to our companies, which are much better at cross-border cooperation than we politicians are. So I would like to ask whether the Minister for Defence could in his reply demonstrate a certain openness to both Thorvald Stoltenberg's and Nils Wang's ideas about increased cooperation, for it is, of course, about the Arctic and the North Atlantic • this area on the planet, which is, firstly, immensely large and, secondly, has a hugely increasing importance, for a very large part, left to the supervision and guarding of the Nordic countries, and this applies both to safety at sea and raw materials and transport, and so on, but certainly also to the military. If that area becomes a vacuum, we know it can be tempting. It can, for example, be done. tempt those who send submarines into the Stockholm archipelago and do other things, and what we can do to preserve peace is that both the United States and Russia can be confident that the Nordic countries themselves will take care of that area. And we can. Together, as I mentioned in the previous debate, we have the European Union's largest air dispute forces. They are bigger than the German, larger than the French, larger than the English, so we can, of course, if we cooperate, and what I am talking about here fits perfectly with what is the motto of the government's President's policy for 2015: Together we are strong. Yeah, but we're only strong if we're together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024130711	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. Then I give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024130721	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for putting this statement to the debate. Nordic defence cooperation reflects the unique cooperation we have in the Nordic countries. I said a lot about that in my previous speech, so I will not continue to do so here. We have different starting points, angles and interests in the countries and autonomous areas, especially in relation to NATO and the European Union, but in spite of this we are able to stand together in many ways. But there will always be room for improvement and fortunately for it, because then we will not be standing still, but we will be able to move on. We are privileged in many ways because we live in that part of the world that is not marked by war and strife. At the same time, we are also experiencing the consequences of a more complex world with many conflicts and hot spots right now. That is why we have also experienced threats that have come very close and we are faced with a situation with a threat picture that is not clear-cut. Who remembers, for example? not cruelty in Norway on 22 July 2011. This terrible massacre represents the complexity of the task of predicting such tragedies. There are always examples that remind us that we must have good cooperation in this area in the Nordic countries too. Cyber tourism is no longer a foreign word for us either. This is an area which the national intelligence services take very seriously. Therefore, the importance of strengthened defence, security and preparedness work should not be underestimated. When we talk about Nordic defence cooperation, we do not get around the North-Efco cooperation. Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden can contribute positively to each other's different national and international commitments. In NORDEFCO cooperation, it has been obvious to look at how to benefit from, for example, joint procurement of equipment, joint training and joint exercises. A good example of the latter is the recurrent NATO exercise Cold Response in Nordnorge in March and the exercise Nighthawk in September in Denmark, which is the recurrent multinational exercise for national and international special forces and operations in peacekeeping activities. So here we also see a lot of examples of joint exercises. With regard to Greenland and the Arctic, there is in many ways a great potential for different types of Nordic cooperation that can benefit the countries involved. We must remember, however, that Denmark has a very special obligation in relation to Greenland and in relation to the cooperation with the Arctic Council. With the Nordic and Danish Presidencies of the Nordic Council of Ministers, it is very important that we get more focus on the Arctic part, not least the challenges and consequences of climate change. Today there has been a lot of talk about the fact that the ice is melting and that it creates new seaways and thus also access. In the spring I was at Thulebasen and I can tell you that the week before we arrived there was a cruise ship that had suddenly asked to be allowed into the harbor. All of a sudden, there were tourists at Thulebasen. It was brand-new. Greenland is located in a strategically good place in relation to possible conflicts with the various great powers. That is why I would like to stress once again the need for Denmark to maintain the monitoring and sovereignty of the territories of the Commonwealth in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. In addition, increased activity at sea will also increase the risk of accidents, which is why emergency cooperation must also be taken into account and, of course, all of this must also be done with respect for the local population. At the time of the accession of the Nordic countries to the Hague II Declaration, we can increase cooperation to prevent, reduce and deal with the consequences of major accidents and disasters taking place in these areas of interest, which can strengthen cooperation under the auspices of the Nordic countries, among others. also for the benefit of international preparedness in the EU, NATO and the UN. On the social democratic side, we look forward to the existing cooperation being identified and analysed with a view to presenting an action plan for the further development of Nordic co-operation in 2015. Nor should we forget the great support given by the Nordic countries to the UN's sustaining efforts and capacity building companies around the world. Finally, I should also like to mention the important work which deals with veterans and which benefits and helps former soldiers and their families. In this context, I would like to commend the Danish and Nordic soldiers for their efforts and for their cooperation. The North is unique. Let us cherish our fellowship and those people who are not as privileged as us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131155	I would also like to thank Mrs Annette Lind. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131210	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your statement. In the Danish People's Party, we very much welcome the cooperation in the Nordic region, including the defence cooperation. We must always remember that we are members of a binding and strong alliance called NATO. Some of the Nordic countries are not members of NATO, which is why it is very important that we do not allow Nordic cooperation to outperform or replace NATO cooperation. For there is therefore no Article 5 in the Nordic defence cooperation, which means that there is no musketeered. Nevertheless, we can have a lot of benefit and benefit from cooperation between the Nordic countries in the field of defence, and we do not see in the current course an attempt to replace NATO in Nordic co-operation. The Danish People's Party therefore supports the Nordic defence cooperation in its present form and expects to be able to do so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131322	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. And then we have come to the next rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131341	Thank you, and thank you for a very good statement, which I think is very comprehensive. Last year we had a similar debate and also a very good and comprehensive statement, and I do not want to repeat my speech last year, even though the words still stand. But I can quickly sum up the point, namely that we would like to see Nordic cooperation strengthened even more, but that we think that the strategy is exactly the right one, namely that it is a very concrete and realistic operational cooperation. This may be contrary to our predecessors, who had very great ambitions for Nordic co-operation, but where the ambitions did not really go further than to be air castles and toast speeches. That is why I think that the statement we have before us now, and also the one that came last year, is an indication of how far we can really go when we go pragmatically and realistically. And that is what I think is the right words about Nordic co-operation. After all, it has a lot of different areas, and I think that Mr. Bertel Haarder was right that the Arctic dimension is of particular importance because we have a very natural community of interests in this respect. But we also have a community which is perhaps not so much a community of interests as it is a community of values that we are particularly engaged in in our joint efforts in the world. When I was reading through this statement, I must admit that I thought: God, much of this is classic radical defence policy. Some people might think that bombers aren't. But everyone can change along the way, and there is no doubt that today we are going along with much sharper missions than we might have done in the past, and we can give many good reasons for this. But that does not mean that at the same time we are not still very concerned about the classical radical defence policy: peacekeeping, capacity building, etc. And what we can see when we look down over the very specific range of issues covered by Nordic co-operation is that it is precisely in those areas that we stand together strongly. The Radical Left fully supports this and we would really like it to be extended. One thing is that we can see that there are a number of issues, and that is actually quite convincing, but if you start to quantify, it is perhaps two, three people here and five people there. After all, it is not at all a matter of scale in which the slightly sharper missions we are participating in. They may not get that either, but I would say that it is a priority for the Radical Left that this type of effort, which we typically carry out with the Nordic countries, is given priority. For they are at least as important as the slightly sharper bets, which we are part of in some slightly different types of coalitions, also sometimes with participation from the Nordic countries, but still in some slightly different constellations. And here there is no doubt that the slightly smaller projects we are participating in with the Nordic countries do not draw so many headlines, but they are at least as important for the Danish foreign and security policy, which is why we would like to see them strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131711	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. The next speaker is Mr. Steen Gade from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024131721	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your statement, and we also basically support the development of cooperation. I would like to mention three areas which I think are important. One is what the radical rapporteur also put a great deal of emphasis on, that is, cooperation on peacekeeping measures around the world, and that we are getting as much out of Nordic cooperation as possible there as we can in terms of agreeing who is doing what, but also by becoming more capable and more capable of cooperating on it, so that we can be some of those who can deliver with peacekeeping forces quickly, which is of course important. It should also be part of the consideration, which is at least also the SF's consideration, that the Danish military effort should increasingly be directed towards helping in UN missions, that is, more than we have been doing over the last ten years, so that we become more and more available for the actions decided at UN level. So there I believe that Nordic co-operation can help us to get that shift in our policy in Denmark as well. The second point I would like to mention is also mentioned in the statement, and it is the Haga Declaration that I think it is called, which dates from 2009, and there I would really like to ask the Minister whether this is not something we need to do more about. I have read the progress paper on the Stoltenberg report, which was given to the Defence Committee, but is it not really something we should do a little more about? I do not know whether it could also be included in the wider discussion we have on cooperation in the event of shipping disasters, etc.I do not know whether this is possible within that framework, but I think there is in fact a place here where more work could be done than I could at least read there will be in the progress report that has been sent and which the Defence Committee received at some point last year. The third is something that others have also mentioned: monitoring. I also think it has been a good idea to work together to help Iceland with some monitoring, but I also think it is an interesting idea to extend cooperation there. The steps that have been taken and which may also, when you read about them, be seen as small in practical terms, so that you can work on each other's areas of practice and such things, are enough, when it comes to the matter, not so small in the real world, and I think that is important too. Many people are talking about a revival of the Cold War, but one might actually argue that the fact that we are looking for more together in the North is not really a question of it, but that it is perhaps in fact a question of taking the consequence of the cold war actually ending. In fact, I think we can do this easily and that we should do it too, but not necessarily involve it in the fact that we are now seeing a great enemy coming closer. We're gonna be realists. Now it is not because I think that Russia is not doing something that I do not like because they are, but we should not breathe into it either, and now that we are expanding cooperation, what I think we should do, I think it is important that we actually do it in a slightly different light than that it is something we are extremely obliged to do. Because, for example, it's... In the cold war, Finland, because of the position of the Soviet Union as it was, could not do anything, nor did Sweden dare to cooperate with the NATO countries, so we are now in the freer position that we can. And it is right, then, whether you like it or not, that the difference between whether you are a NATO country or not a NATO country in the North is being broken down. And I think that's fine; I don't mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024132215	Thank you, sir. Steen Gade. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024132233	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the written statement. I do not have so many comments on the statement itself, however, a strong critical remark to which I shall return shortly. The Enhedslisten, together with the Left Socialist Green Group in the Nordic Council, has agreed to the Nordic defence cooperation, but we have done so with a clear emphasis on the fact that what is our prerequisite is that it is used for peaceful purposes, first and foremost; that we do not give up sovereignty. It is absolutely crucial for Enhedslisten that it is the Danish Parliament that controls when the Danish military is used in the world, for that matter also in the Nordic countries, in cooperation with other Nordic countries. There are some important tasks that Nordic defence cooperation can undertake, not least in terms of monitoring and preparedness in the Arctic region. If we look a little more into the future, we would very much like Nordic co-operation to replace Denmark's membership of NATO precisely because Nordic defence cooperation works on the basis of this strong governance by the Danish Parliament. After all, we see that it is the Folketing that must govern it unless we have expressly and very specifically left management to a supranational body, and I think everyone is aware that if we are talking about military operations in the world, the United Nations is, from the point of view of Enhedslisten. However, I think that the statement is weak on an absolutely crucial point; other rapporteurs have also mentioned it. Perhaps I am not as polite as the other rapporteurs who have also touched this problem, but there are some who are polite enough to listen, and thank you for that. It is simply about the readiness of the Arctic. In other words, as several speakers have said, the National Audit Office has made a devastating criticism of the Danish preparedness in the Arctic. I do not think we are dealing specifically with that problem. I know there's been work on things since, I'm not making it as if the Department of Defense hasn't dealt with the criticism. However, my question to the Minister is this: are we now in a situation where we can face the voters and the National Audit Office and say that we have solved the problem? Yes, now we are in such a situation that we can cope with a major shipping disaster or a major environmental disaster in the Arctic? I believe that we must all face up to the fact that we are not there as the situation is today. And there I am also calling for much more concrete plans for how we can make use of Nordic defence cooperation for this. For it is enough to be realistic to say that not only can we, through our own power, provide the equipment and preparedness needed. This requires cooperation with other countries, and I agree, not only with the Nordic countries. Any country which, you might say, operates in the Arctic must come together to solve these tasks. However, what lies first and which should be the easiest task to solve, given that we are engaged in Nordic defence cooperation, is that the task of using Nordic defence cooperation for the tasks that we have talked about here today, and which we all agree on, must be resolved much more firmly: monitoring and preparedness. We can just take emergency action in relation to the Greenlandic area. The truth is that aircraft of the Challenger type are incredibly suitable for monitoring, not only in relation to which ships are sailing around, who is fishing, and military vessels, if they should not just stay where they are now, but also in relation to rescue operations. Such a Challenger plane can, in popular terms, see a Greenlander on an ice flake from 10 kilometers high, and this is of crucial importance for the possibility of saving specific people up there. There we are just in the situation that we are not covering it 30 days a month, as far as I understand, but perhaps 10 days a month or less. And sometimes all the seats have to be ripped out of that plane, because then it has to be used for VIP tasks. Well, that's not a good way to do things. Then we have to say: if we are not in a position to provide ourselves with the flight monitoring that is needed, then we have an opportunity in cooperation with the other Nordic countries. So I would like to and hope and look forward to the Minister for Defence saying something more concrete about that in a moment. If you hear it as if I'm a little in the same direction as Mr. Bertel Haarder, it's not entirely wrong. I think there are some good ideas that we ourselves need to take much more control of this problem with the Nordic countries. So I look forward to hearing the Minister's response to the speeches that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024132813	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024132833	Thank you. It's really nice to hear the very, very broad consensus about Nordic co-operation in this area. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, we are very positive and we would like to see cooperation strengthened further. We thank you for your statement, and I would like to say in line with a number of the other rapporteurs that there are, of course, some areas where it is quite obvious that we have a particular common interest in the Nordic Region. This is particularly true in the Arctic area. We have discussed other elements of Nordic co-operation in the past, where, of course, on the one hand we are a member of the European Union and, on the other hand, we have an interest in strengthening cooperation in a number of areas. Of course, this must not conflict with one another. Similarly, it is in the field of defence where not all the Nordic countries are involved in NATO. So, on the one hand, we have to stand on the feet of NATO cooperation, but on the other hand, we must certainly make it even clearer in which areas it makes sense to strengthen Nordic defence cooperation. It is very gratifying to read in the statement that some of the characteristics of Nordic cooperation in defence are precisely that it is unbureaucratic, that it is effective and that it is something that produces results in a very visible way. We think that we should strengthen cooperation, first and foremost what concerns the common Nordic region, including the Arctic, but also when it comes to the international peacekeeping missions, we think that it is quite obvious that we should turn the flame up. So thank you for your statement. This looks very forward-looking and, on the part of the Liberal Alliance, we will support any action that can further strengthen cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024133021	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024133038	In fact, Nordic defence cooperation is a beautiful example of how Nordic cooperation can go hand in hand with the fact that we have obligations, i.e. that we have binding cooperation at both European and international level, for example. in NATO, which is relevant to highlight here, where it is defence cooperation that we are talking about. I would like to thank you for a good statement. The Conservative People's Party fully supports the defence cooperation that we have in the Nordic countries, and I also think that the statement very well illustrates that the world has changed considerably. Many might think that when we talk about Nordic defence cooperation, it is only something that is going on in the Nordic countries, so that we help each other with defence tasks locally and regionally, I had almost said, but the explanation shows precisely that we also benefit from working together in the world, because today defence is in fact often far away from our borders and we contribute to missions around the world. There is, for example, in the statement. mentioned our joint contribution to the UN mission in Syria. An example has been given of capacity building in East Africa, where we have staff officers placed together at a head office in Nairobi. But, of course, cooperation is also specifically concerned with regional defence cooperation and simply to make our resources useful and more efficient by working together on the acquisition of material, training, training and many other things. I think it is excellent and the Conservative Party supports it. And I would like to thank you once again for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024133238	We also thank Mr. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party. And then I can give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024133247	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the very positive welcome to the statement and for the comments they have made. I think that what characterises the entire Danish Parliament across the parties is a genuine and heartfelt commitment to Denmark being an important part of Nordic co-operation and that Nordic co-operation must be an important part of Danish policy, and this also applies to defence. There are those in the Enhedslisten who think it was better that we went out of NATO and then alone to be part of Nordic cooperation. I have to say that I do not see that. NATO is the cornerstone of security policy for Denmark, but that does not mean that we cannot be alongside it and complementing that work can have a very good cooperation with the other Nordic countries, and that is exactly what this is about. The debate is now about how we can take stock, but also how we can look forward when it comes to Nordic co-operation. Fortunately, it is a priority in all the Nordic countries and that cooperation is increasingly developed and developed in areas such as capacity building, operational cooperation, exercise cooperation and also in the education sector. There is also a very good and positive dialogue with the other Nordic countries, in terms of how we can play a role internationally, how we can lift up in groups. The fact that this is also a priority for the Danish government is demonstrated by the government base and by our concrete efforts in Nordic co-operation. And when I say that Nordic co-operation is developing positively, I can mention that at the December 2013 defence ministers' meeting a common vision was adopted to deepen and strengthen Nordic defence cooperation by 2020. It is a clear indication that we are not just looking at Nordic co-operation as something we talk about on festive occasions, but that we are also putting some work into it and that we are engaging with a long-term plan. I'm gonna share sir. Bertel Haarder's commitment, but also the desire that both Danish ministers and other Nordic ministers invest in this collaboration. This is the first time such a vision has been adopted, and it illustrates that we are also working more strategically and long-term in the framework of NORDEFCO. But we also have a lot to work on together. The Arctic area has been mentioned, and I can say that we are currently in the process of examining what the defence's task solution in the Arctic will be in the future. In this context, it is a very important component that we can work together and cooperate with other countries. This applies to the Nordic countries, and that applies to all countries in the region. Because the challenge, as many have said, is that geography is so enormous and the climate can be so harsh that we have to help each other if the accident is out. So the purpose of the work that is going on right now is to look at what Denmark can do with, but of course also how we can work with others, so that we can get outside help if there are accidents or disasters, but of course Denmark can help others if they are in that situation. So it is very high on the agenda. It will of course be interesting to take advantage of the close cooperation that we have with the defence in the other Nordic countries. Mr Bertel Haarder said that thought is being given to even closer cooperation. I would say that I think we should be open to closer ties, but also that we should do that where it makes sense where we can make a difference in practice. A very, very good example of how Denmark and other Nordic countries have made a difference is, of course, the effort that has been made to get chemical substances out of Syria. It was a mission led by Denmark, where Norway, Sweden and Finland were also very important partners. And for me it is also a textbook example of how the Nordic countries show that we can work closely together and that we can carry out a task not that it was the Nordic countries alone, but that it was with a very, very large Nordic print that we can be proud of and that you can also use forward-looking. This is also true in relation to UN missions. It is true in reality on land, on water and in the air that here we should have an interest in working even closer together, because we have some competences, we have some values, we have a history, we have a cooperation that makes you trust the Nordic countries in the international community and we trust each other and will thus also be able to deliver a joint effort. Sir. Steen Gade raised the question of whether we should not work even more closely together in the field of emergency situations and referred to the Haga Declaration of 2009 and said: what happens now? The good news is that at the ministerial meeting in June 2013, the Haga II Declaration was adopted. It has a great deal of focus on how we can assist each other in disaster situations and also sudden situations, whether they are natural disasters or attacks or whatever they may be. Unfortunately, we have seen with Norway, as the very sad example, that very violent acts can also take place on Nordic soil. We have also noticed that nature can strike violently across national borders and in our different countries. Therefore, it has been decided, by 27 July 2014 at a meeting that I myself attended in Oslo, to have common Nordic action modules that can be used in the event of disasters in the Nordic or Arctic region. The action modules are intended to be linked to the European Commission's civilian capabilities pool, and this is a clear, concrete step towards being able to work together more closely in the field of emergency response. So, sir. Steen Gade's real vision is about to be realized. We can, of course, be even better, and we will work on that too, but it is very much something that concerns me as a minister and the government, and it is also something that concerns us in the other Nordic countries, and I think that is very sensible. We also see it in relation to an effort in East Africa. Our sent-out Nordic military advisors in Kenya have a close cooperation and coordinate our contribution to building a reaction force unit at headquarters there, in Nairobi. We also see that there is a desire to cooperate, for example. UN missions in Africa; it may be with transport capacity. There may be specific circumstances that make it impossible for you to do so in a given operation, but the idea that you can go in together from the Nordic countries and take periods when, for example, we make transport flights or other logistics available, so that when a Danish contribution has been there for some time, it is replaced by a Norwegian, Swedish or Finnish, is good and right. And we would very much like to work together on that. This is also true of what may not necessarily be done in Nordic, if there is such a language in the old days it was said that when you were on charter holiday, you could speak Scandinavian but at least in good Jutland seems reasonable, namely that by working together you can also save money. This is also a way in which the Nordic taxpayers get more for their crowns. This is true when they go in and see that we, for example, are going in. with air transport working more closely together. In terms of training for example. Special Forces, we've got a better education for less money by joining forces in the Nordic countries. When it comes to ammunition purchases and other things in the future, there is also great potential. In other words, both when you look at the defence in isolation; when you look at the individual Nordic countries individually; when you look at the Nordic region as such; when you look at the whole Arctic area; and when you look at it globally, every reason why we continue to strengthen Nordic co-operation. It should not take the place of what we have in NATO or in the United Nations, but because we have the close, close bond between the Nordic countries and the will and desire to develop it, we can carry out tasks under the auspices of the United Nations and carry out tasks in our own area and also help set political agendas that are needed. This is clearly something that the government is concerned with and will continue to work on, and that is also what the statement is expressing, and that is why I am also pleased with the great support that has been shown by the government here today. I also thank you for the many initiatives to make it even stronger. And I hope that the commitment that I am experiencing in this Parliamentary Chamber will also take place in the parliaments around the Nordic countries; that is also my clear impression. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity today to thank the Danish parliamentarians in particular, but also the other Nordic parliamentarians who are investing time and effort in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134441	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. Despite a relatively large consensus, there are nevertheless a few brief comments. The first is from Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134451	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister, and thank you for your gratitude and thank you. But I am still a little disappointed with the Minister's statement here. Because I do not think the Minister was in any way concerned with the rapporteurs it was not only the undersigned who pointed out the problems of preparedness in the Arctic. So I would like to ask the Minister to try again: can we not have a little more specific information about what is being done to counter the criticism from the Reichsaudit? This applies both to what Denmark is responsible for in the Arctic, but also to what we can use Nordic co-operation for. I have a specific question for something that the Minister brought in. Why should the joint Nordic preparedness that we can now develop be associated with the European Union's disaster pool? In other words, the European Union as such has nothing to do in the Arctic and, as Nordic countries, we should be able to manage it together. I didn't quite understand the value of it. Then I also have another question: is it the economy that is lacking in terms of strengthening preparedness? We could do that on the Danish side. We could, for example. acquire a Challenger plane or two more, so we were sure that every day, hour and second there was the necessary surveillance in the Arctic. It would cost a hell of a lot of money, but there we have a good funding proposal on the part of the Enhedlisten: Drop those approx. 30 billion. kr. you'll spend on fighter planes that can't be used up there anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134639	For a moment, I was just beginning to think that Enhedslisten was going to propose an increase in defence expenditure. It would have been interesting in itself. I don't quite understand, sir. Finn Sørensen's remarks that I didn't get on the alert. In fact, that was the very first subject I raised. I said that we have a clear challenge in terms of preparedness throughout the Arctic region, and that also applies, of course, to Greenland. Because geography is so huge and the climate is so harsh, and if things go wrong, it can have very big consequences. That is why, firstly, we invest in better ships for Greenland, but also increase our helicopter capacity with better helicopters that have been purchased for that purpose. However, my message was in this respect in relation to the step forward, namely that we are also in the process of carrying out a thorough analysis of what sort of capabilities are needed from the defence side in the future in order to be able to carry out the work in the Arctic. And a very important part of the work is to look at what partners it makes sense to have, and there are the Nordics who are quite obvious. But it is not just those with whom we have to work, and I heard Mr. Finn Sørensen's speech earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134805	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134807	Thank you. Well then, it can either be due to my ignorance of what is actually being worked on, or perhaps the problem is that one has not done enough to inform the Folketing. I'm not gonna rule out that I'm the one who's behind. But then I can at least ask the Minister what the timetable is for putting forward the concrete solutions that are needed to say that the criticism of the National Audit Office has now been fully followed up, so we are sure that there is the necessary preparedness in the Arctic. What's the timetable for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134846	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134847	I am only pleased to have the opportunity to mention here what has already been done, namely that there are better ships on our way to Greenland, that we also have helicopters with a much larger radius of action to Greenland, and that in addition we are looking at how we can further strengthen the preparedness. Sir. Finn Sørensen also mentioned that a Challenger aircraft has operated in Greenland, and at the moment we are also looking at what we can do in the future with that plane and with other capabilities. That analysis is in full swing and I expect the result to be clear within a few months, so that we in the Folketing can make decisions on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134936	Thank you, Minister. Then there's one more, and that's Mr. Knox. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024134940	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment and clear answers. I understood from the Minister that he will actually be interested in both Thorvald Stoltenberg's and Nils Wang's proposals for action, strength and coastguard. I asked for the floor to inform you that 14 days ago there was a Nordic defence round table in Oslo where the Minister's Norwegian colleague, Ine Eriksen Søreide, made a very exciting speech. We had exciting Swedish analyses and I got the impression that Finland is in some ways more NATO-active than many NATO Member States. But I'm not going to elaborate on that. I would just like the Minister to promise that he will prepare for him to host a similar Nordic round table next year, if necessary, because it has now become a Nordic tradition. It started in Helsinki, continued in Oslo, and it will, of course, continue in Copenhagen next year, and it will have to be prepared in time. So whatever minister we have, it is important that the current minister is concerned about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135113	I am very concerned about these issues and, in general, about Nordic co-operation. I can say that when it comes to all emergency cooperation, as Mr. Steen Gade mentioned, Denmark will take over the Presidency next time, and next February a meeting will be held in Aarhus, where you will see how we can strengthen the preparedness. Whatever else is involved in conferences and round tables, I would very much like to discuss with Mr Seligman. Bertel Haarder, and I am sure that, as we have also done in other contexts, we have seen that Denmark has been able to go in and play a role and will also be able to find a sensible way to deal with it. So I'm very open to that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135202	Thank you. And Mr. Bertel Haarder does not need the second question, so I thank the Minister for Defence. I note that, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135218	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135330	Thank you. Let me begin a little unconventionally by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his speech. Generally speaking, speeches are a little formal, a little dry, a little noticeable, and that is not the case here. It is not only well written, but I also very much agree with the message, why I should try to be relatively brief. With the ratification of the three agreements under discussion today, we are strengthening trade and cooperation between the European Union, on the one hand, and Georgia, Moldolva and Ukraine, on the other. On the other hand, the association agreements are about more than just strengthening practical cooperation with our neighbours. They are about stability in Europe. They express a desire to establish closer ties with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, so that we can contribute together to the stable and democratic development of these very countries. With the agreements, individual countries have shown the will for democratic and economic reform. These are reforms that, if implemented, will improve conditions for the people and ensure development and stability. These are reforms that will increase their independence and independence. The alternative for these three countries is a dependence on Russia; an acceptance of Russian influence on independent and independent nations; an acceptance of the fact that the strong has the right to control the weak just because he can. We will not accept that in the Left, and we therefore give our full support to the ratification of the three agreements. These are agreements that we see as an expression of a future partnership for peace and stability. In this context, I just cannot help noticing my annoyance at the fact that, in the case of Ukraine, this is a postponement of the free trade parts of the agreement, which will not enter into force until 2016. I am very well aware that this is not just the responsibility of the government and that the suspension agreement was negotiated by Russia, Ukraine and the European Union. Some people may think that this is a relatively small sacrifice, and I do not agree with that. The fact is that, with this postponement, the European Union has sent out a clear signal to the Russians that threats are working and that raw power can move the European Union. I find this a pity, and I find it regrettable that it was not chosen to stand firm and insist that Ukraine itself chooses Ukraine's future. I would therefore urge the government to oppose any future attempt to delay the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine, because if we do not stand firm here, we will indirectly help weaken Ukraine by mutating the borders of Ukraine's independence, and at worst we risk Ukraine ending up as a failed state under a Russian protectorate. That is something we must and must work against, which is why the European Union must continue to stand firm against Russia in the future, even when it comes to Ukraine. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135648	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is for the Socialists, Mr President. Jacob Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024135700	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for putting forward a proposal linking close ties between the EU countries, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine. If you look back on the history of Europe, war has been a basic condition in life, present in life, and here I am not just thinking of the two world wars of the last century. For besides Denmark's many wars with our neighbouring countries, religious and conquest wars have been the norm for Europeans for many of the last millenniums. Fortunately, here in Denmark, and not least in Europe, war has been a distant thing in the last many decades. It's not like that in many parts of the world. Just a few hundred kilometers to the east, Ukrainians and Russians are fighting each other in a bloody conflict to this day. In our part of Europe, we have shown the world that there is a sustainable model of peace and prosperity, a model that can make the enemy a first trading partner and later an ally, a model that reduces corruption and strengthens democracy. After the Second World War, the European Community and later the European Union have only succeeded in negotiating Europe into one of the world's most peaceful continents. This is not least due to the fact that, after the Cold War, we have absorbed a number of the countries that used to be behind the Iron Curtain. It has brought economic prosperity and helped democracy to grow out of these dictatorships. However, as we have seen in Hungary, there can be setbacks on the road to democratic development. This is a development that we must not close our eyes to, but we must not just be discouraged from strengthening developments in Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. There is no snatching solution that can turn the three countries into model democracies or strong economies over a night. With an association agreement, we will have more tools to move in the right direction. Firstly, the agreement will provide us with tools for working together to reform and build institutions that can bring about stable economic and social development. Secondly, the agreement will strengthen the economies through the gradual introduction of free trade between the European Union and the three countries. This will create economic development and allow countries to adapt to the growing demand for continuous efficiency. Thirdly, the agreement will provide a better opportunity for political dialogue and closer political relations. Because when we politicians meet face to face, we can learn a lot from each other, and in this way we can help to strengthen respect for human rights and democracy. It is not an easy exercise to create democracy and build healthy economies in countries that do not have a tradition of it, but as we have seen in South America, South-East Asia and even here in Europe, a healthy economy, a flourishing and an intermediate class are often a prerequisite for the development of democracy. This is an opportunity that the people of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine deserve. That is why the Socialists support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024140027	Thank you, sir. Jacob Lund. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024140038	Today we have to deal with three association agreements that the European Union has concluded with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine respectively. For all three nations, this is a further development of the partnership and cooperation agreements concluded in 1998 and 1999 respectively. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is essential that we maintain good neighbourly relations with the countries bordering the European Union. Similarly, it is a fundamental premise for us to increase trade in the world, because increased trade increases global prosperity. One element of the association agreements we are discussing today is that the three countries are offered easier access to our markets. These are quite far-reaching agreements binding the three countries and the European Union on each other in a wide range of policy areas. Here I would like to mention the animal welfare area, where the countries commit themselves to the gradual approximation of the higher animal welfare standards in force in the European Union, in spite of everything. However, the association agreements with these three countries are not necessarily unproblematic. It has to be done, for example. It stresses that these are countries with significant challenges. As we all know, separatists in the eastern part of Ukraine are fighting for secession from the western part of Ukraine. Ukraine is divided between an East which is heading towards Russia and a West which is heading towards Europe. This schism is, of course, first and foremost an internal Ukrainian matter, but it is of course also important in terms of how we, from Denmark and Europe, should act against a Ukraine whose people do not quite agree on where Ukraine should go. As far as Georgia is concerned, this is also a country which is unable to maintain sovereignty throughout its territory. As you know, Georgia tried to bring South Ossetia back under Georgian control in August 2008, after South Ossetian troops had bombarded a number of Georgian villages. Russia then intervened on the South Ossetian side; a ceasefire was agreed at the end of August. Both in South Ossetia and in Abkhazia, the ethnic Georgians have de facto been cleansed. Russia, together with a handful of other countries, has recognised Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent republics, and these republics act in practice as independent republics. Georgia therefore has no control over the area. In Moldova, too, there is a gap between the western and eastern parts of the country. As a result, a referendum in the Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzien in February 2014 showed 98 per cent. of the inhabitants wanted a customs union between Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Moldova rather than an agreement with the EU. The same number voted for Gagauz independence in the event that Moldova became part of Romania. At the same time, Moldova is plagued by significant crime and is regarded as an intermediary for trafficking in women. As in the case of Ukraine, on the issue of free trade, there is an agreement with a transitional period of ten years. I do not know whether the European Union expects these ten years to make a decisive difference in relation to how the citizens of eastern Moldova and Ukraine will orient themselves in the future. I can have some doubts as to whether ten years will wipe out a relationship with Russia that has existed for many centuries, nor am I sure that it is in the interests of the European Union that a significant population in the two countries should be strangled. The European Union needs to take seriously the issues that arise in countries whose populations are divided into a group that is oriented towards the west and a group that is oriented towards the east. The European Union simply also needs to know its border. The fact has been raised that in all three countries there is considerable concern about freedoms. In Georgia, however, the situation appears to improve as a result of the election of President Margvelashvili in October 2013. In Ukraine, the situation is extremely unresolved because of the conditions in the eastern part of the country, where separatists, as you know, have control over a number of areas. Of course, the question can always be asked of how much the European Union must demand in order to be able to conclude association agreements with other countries. As you know, the European Union also has an association agreement with seven countries in the Middle East, including among others. Algeria, Lebanon and Morocco, where freedoms are not respected either at the time of the conclusion of the agreements or today in all cases. What is crucial in this respect is whether there is a will to improve the situation. And that will, in the view of the Danish People's Party, can be detected in both Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova. We can then always assess whether the same was the case when the association agreements with the seven Mediterranean countries were concluded, but that is another talk. For the Danish People's Party, in any event, it is essential that respect for basic freedoms in the future is included as an important and essential parameter when mutually binding agreements are concluded. However, there are also elements of the agreement that the Danish People's Party is critical of and would like to see further clarification. This is, for example, the case. on the visa liberalisation provided for in relation to Ukraine and Georgia. In the case of Moldova, unfortunately, there is a wish to add a visa no longer, so people from Moldova can enter the European Union freely even today. In view of the widespread crime that plagues the country, this does not seem appropriate. The Danish People's Party considers it essential that both Denmark's own and the EU's external borders be guarded and protected in the best possible way. Visas are an important element in this. That is why it is worrying when it is clear from the agreements with Georgia and Ukraine that we are working towards visa freedom also for these two nations. This is a matter which we shall examine in greater detail in the further work on the motion for a resolution. As you know, the prerequisite for good neighbourly relations is to know where the border of the Matrikel is. If your neighbor constantly walks uninvited into your cadastre, it is not conducive to good neighborhood. Just because you get along well with your neighbor does not necessarily mean that you want the neighbor's and your own house to be joined together into a collective. Good neighbourly relations are just good neighbourly relations. This also means that the Danish People's Party does not see these association agreements as an expression of a first step towards membership. The Danish People's Party does not see Ukraine, Georgia or Moldova as future members of the European Union. In our view, the European Union has reached a size where the Union should not be much larger. Even today, the differences between countries are so considerable that they give rise to considerable problems, among other things. In relation to the free movement of workers, where by Danish standard extremely low wages in e.g. Bulgaria and Romania themselves encourage relatively highly educated Romanians and Bulgarians to take unskilled jobs in Western Europe, generating what can be called a braindrain in good Danish in these countries. At the same time, Danish unskilled workers find it difficult to get jobs in this country. It's actually approaching a lose-lose situation. That is why the Danish People's Party will be opposed to the accession of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to the European Union, just as we are opposed to the accession of Albania and Turkey, with which accession negotiations are currently under way. The Danish People's Party will follow the committee's work on these matters closely and we will state our final position on the agreements once we have clarified the issues that we have raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024140836	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party rapporteur Kenneth Kristensen Berth and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024140849	Thank you. I can of course say, on the basis of the Radical Left's position, that we support the motions for resolutions, and we also see it in a slightly broader context. It's not just about trade, but it's about linking these countries closer to us. But we also see it in an even broader context than that, because it is, after all, about supporting these countries and supporting those peoples in having more prosperous, but also more freer societies. As far as the Russian dimension is concerned, we also believe in the end that the way to win the Russians is to go after the Russians. Of course, we cannot ignore Putin and his power policy, but we believe that the way in which we can make Russia a more free and democratic society in the long term is by showing the Russians the advantages of cooperation in trade, but also the advantages of reforming its state towards better legal certainty, a stronger civil society, etc. Therefore, this has to be seen in a much broader context. This is actually to be seen in the context of the development which Europe has been through over the last ten years, with an ever-increasing rapprochement between former Eastern Europe and Western Europe, and in which we have to see today that it has caused some friction with Russia. But that does not make us change the overall objective of achieving a more free, democratic and prosperous Europe, perhaps one day also with Russia as a strong partner. But that should not prevent us from continuing to pursue that path with the other countries, even if Russia stands in the way. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141043	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then we go to the next rapporteur, who is from the SF, and that is Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141055	The SF will also support the proposals here on association agreements. There is not so much to add in relation to the previous rapporteurs, but perhaps one should say that the two things that link it together are, in fact, that they are located east of the European Union and that the three of them have complicated relations with Russia in different ways, and it is also in that light that it makes sense to discuss it together. We think it's a real step to make these association agreements. They can help the forces of the three countries that will develop countries into democracies that will help to create free societies. We do not see this as a confrontation with Russia, and in this way we think it is a reasonable balance, one might say, and a sensible expansion of the European Union's relations eastwards in a situation that cannot be concealed is a little tense and difficult. There are other rapporteurs who have said that we should not have done anything like this for the sake of the Mediterranean and the region south of Europe. I disagree with that. After the same considerations that drive this, I believe that it is also right to have the association agreements. After all, this is a chance to have some dialogue between the European Union and those countries. Then, of course, you can always go in and say: How is it used? Is it being used well enough? But it is as if it is a different discussion, and I have of course also said that sometimes the dialogue instruments could be used more actively than they are actually used. However, there is positive support from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141314	Thank you, sir. Steen Gade from SF. The next rapporteur is from Enhedslisten, Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141324	Thank you. We must create peace in Europe through political solutions and economic cooperation, the Foreign Minister says in his presentation, and I very much agree. The problem is that Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia are examples of Europe's failure to do just that. All three countries have either de facto been divided or are in civil war. There is no doubt that Russia bears a very large share of the blame for this. The presence of Russian soldiers in breakout areas in these countries is a very clear proof of Russia's guilt for the chaotic situations or obsession that exist in these countries. This is a clear violation of international law, and it must be strongly condemned. We must work to ensure that countries can freely and peacefully choose a democratic future, says the Foreign Minister. I agree very much. But do these agreements really contribute to that? I fear that will not be the case. The economic content of the agreements is liberalist reforms. I fear it will hit the poorest and weakest in the peoples of the countries. These are communities which are already marked and plagued by the corruption and, in reality, very brutal capitalism of robbers. However, when the reforms are now implemented, the gas price will rise, the pension and unemployment benefit will fall. It will cause dissatisfaction. It will provide a breeding ground for dangerous nationalism. It is a nationalism which Putin can inflate among the Russian-minded sections of the population, but which ultra-nationalists on the other hand can also inflate. I believe that we must give the countries real choices, but I do not believe that the agreements are an expression of that. The agreements are an expression of market liberalism, but unfortunately they are also the result of a destructive rivalry between the EU and Russia about market shares. Why should the Ukraine agreement be signed before the parliamentary elections of the weekend have been held in Ukraine? And how can the very reasonable democratic demands made for respect for human rights be met in a country such as Ukraine, which is in civil war, which is accused of using torture, which is accused of bombing civilians and which prohibits political parties and the media? I think it is important to note, when we have this debate on just democracy and human rights, that these are three countries, all of which are members of the Council of Europe, all of which have committed themselves, through their membership of the Council of Europe, to respect fundamental democratic rights, to comply with the Convention on Human Rights, but all of which are countries which do not. These are countries which are heavily criticized and supervised by the Council of Europe for precisely violations of fundamental rights. In the Enhedslisten, we support the need to ensure peace in Europe through political and economic solutions. We must ensure that countries have real opportunities to choose their future, but these agreements do not reflect what we see them. On the contrary, we fear that they will contribute to digging ditches and that the losers will become the peoples of the countries. That is why the Enhedslisten will vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141709	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments, so Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is also finished for this time anyway. Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141721	Thank you. Unlike the previous speaker, I think that it is precisely association agreements of the kind we are discussing here today that help to ensure both the development of trade, the development of democracy and the development of both growth and greater freedom for the peoples of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Over the past few years, we have witnessed an incredibly frightening development in this area. I don't think anyone would have been able to predict the behaviour of the Russians if we looked back only briefly. Who would have thought that all of a sudden the Crimean was annexed? And nobody really does anything for real. We see Russian escalation along the Ukrainian border. We see the separatists creating unrest and war in the eastern part of Ukraine. We see that the economy is not developing and that political stability is seriously threatened. The way forward is, of course, multitrack. We need to work on a great many fronts, but the fact that we are now giving these three countries an opportunity to get closer to the other part of Europe that is facing the west is an opportunity to give these countries' politicians and the peoples of these countries, which we must not let go of in any way. It is the way forward to open the borders more, to ensure closer ties, both politically and through better and greater trade, and that is why we support all three proposals from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141900	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. Then I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Barfoed from Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024141918	After all, we can do this very quickly, because we are very much in agreement, most of us at least, to support the three motions for resolutions that we are debating now. Yet there is reason, as several others have done, to stop and just mark that this is historical. It is a step on the road to a historic development in Europe since the Second World War that we are now associating these three countries with the European Union with a trade agreement which is gradually being phased in over a 10-year period. Not least, it is worth noting that there are a number of political principles and requirements attached to the agreement that is being reached in this way. It is a step on the way to further unifying and stabilising Europe. We must never forget what was actually the reason for forming the European Community, as it was then called, the European Union. It was after centuries of war and strife in Europe to ensure a greater degree of stability, security and peace in Europe. It has also developed into objectives of democracy, freedoms and economic prosperity, for us and for our cooperation in the European Union. However, these objectives also apply beyond the borders of the European Union. They also apply in the countries around us. Those are the objectives we must set ourselves, namely to help those countries also achieve peace, security, democracy, freedoms and economic prosperity. By strengthening them and creating that stability around us, we are also strengthening and stabilising ourselves, in other words ourselves in the European Union. Having said that, we must also be careful not to paint the picture too rosy. After all, the three countries with which we are now making agreements in the European Union each have their own history, their pre-conditions and their problems, and it will bring many challenges in the coming years in those countries and in relations between the countries and the European Union to achieve what is being proposed here. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, in his first speech here in the Danish Parliament, has very well described the issues in those countries, and we must be aware of that. We should not be naive about this, but it is significant and important that we set these objectives here and that those countries agree with these objectives, not least the political framework for the development and phasing-in of the agreements that we are now entering into between the European Union and the three countries of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. So in those words, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I shall support the three motions for resolutions tabled by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024142229	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. Then I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024142236	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much to the parties of the Danish Parliament for a good debate and the very broad support for Danish accession to the association agreements with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. I would particularly like to thank the two debut rapporteurs, both of whom I think delivered a very rich and interesting speech from the rapporteur. At the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Wall, we live again at a time when raw power puts territorial boundaries and the right of countries to peaceful self-determination under pressure, whether we like it or not. Despite their technical nature, the agreements we are negotiating today are the start of a close partnership and they confirm common values and common dreams of democracy, self-determination and the rights of the individual. With the agreements, we emphasise our support and support for Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine to choose their own future. They stress our support for reforms for the benefit of the peoples of the countries and for their peoples, like us, to have the right to make free choices without requiring to respect so-called geopolitical spheres of interest. We must, of course, listen to Russia's concerns, but our association agreements must never be written after a Russian dictatorship. They are bilateral matters between us and the three countries. I myself will be visiting both Ukraine and Georgia again this November. I look forward to discussing political developments and confirming Danish support for continued reforms with the governments of two countries, but of course also with civil society: how do they see the future of their countries? How do we find the balance? How do we find reconciliation between the Russian and European forces? There have been several interesting comments in this debate, which I will conclude by commenting on. The Left rapporteur, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, rightly points out that it is a pity that we have now signed an association agreement with Ukraine, which has then been postponed until 1 January 2016. I think so, too. However, I think it is worth noting that it is a step that the European Union has taken because we were asked for it by the Ukrainian side, because President Poroshenko considered that it was what gave him the best cards in terms of finding the balance • the very difficult balance I am tempted to say that he must find internally in Ukraine. And I found it difficult for the European Union to do anything other than respect that recommendation. I also think it is important to note that, although the Association Agreement does not enter into force until 1 January, the part about the EU opening up its markets to Ukraine will enter into force immediately. And that means that Ukrainian industry and Ukrainian producers will have the opportunity to sell their products now, and that, of course, provides a good economic perspective for Ukraine. Then Jacob Lund from the Social Democratic Party quite rightly mentions that there are no snapshot solutions on this issue. It is a long journey that these three countries have now started, and the end point is far away in the future. But that is precisely why I must say to both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten that I see the European Union as the dynamic driving force that is currently drawing those countries in the right direction, not because the European Union is forcing the countries to do so, not because the European Union against the people said to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is trying to pull something over their heads, but because Ukraine and Georgia and Moldova, like the ten Eastern European countries that joined ten years ago, are looking at a social model in the EU where prosperity is higher, where democracy works, where corruption is far, far less, where justice is reformed, where it is, in short, a better place to live than where they live now. They are looking at us, not because their hope is that we will open up to membership. Kenneth Kristensen Berth in the. but because their hope is that just opening this association agreement is a reform driver that allows politicians in these countries to make some fair decisions that make their societies better societies to live in. The magnet that the European Union is in this context is a magnet which those countries cannot, under any circumstances, do without. And that is what their people want. It is not, of course, the European Union that says to these countries: you are now to be a member of the European Union. After all, it is the people themselves who have a very, very strong desire to come closer to the European Union. And what both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten are calling for is democratic reforms, less corruption, higher standards for the environment and the labour market, well-functioning governments, which, of course, we fully agree on is exactly what the agreements we are negotiating today are about. One part is: You are allowed to trade with us, and we also want to trade with you. However, when you sign such an agreement with the European Union, it follows that reforms are actually being carried out in the areas of democracy, anti-corruption, constitution and so on. Now I do not want to rush into a great ideological discussion with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen on liberalism versus planned economy. But I think I dare say that one of the challenges that has been faced in a country such as Ukraine has been that, for example, it has been possible to do so. The whole energy sector has been greasy into state and planned economic governance that has fertilised the corruption that has fertilised corrupt politicians who have made Ukraine perhaps • and that says not so little • the most mistreated country politically speaking, as we have in the former Soviet area. The idea that we are now coming in and saying: let us now clean up so that there are not these very close ties between the political system and the huge economic interests of Ukraine is healthy wherever you are on the right-left scale. These are absolutely necessary economic reforms, which we cannot do without at all. I agree with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in that this is going to be difficult because part of it is, for example. When we talk about energy prices, that the artificially very, very high subsidies that have been given, we will have to gradually abolish. It's not nice if you're an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. And that is why we need to have a long perspective on this and, of course, we also need to implement social reforms at the same time, which will allow Ukrainian families to get through this. But, of course, it is untenable that so much of the state budget in Ukraine is going to artificially keep energy prices down, just as it is not going to happen that Russia, and that is what has happened, has to some extent bribed Ukraine with low energy prices to keep Ukraine inside the fold, so to speak. Every time I visit Ukraine, I get the feeling that this is a country that needs to reform everything. One gets the feeling that even though it is sometimes difficult to be a politician in Denmark, even though there are sometimes difficult things to decide on here, it is certainly a rather different matter from what one is faced with having to reform in Ukraine. And I dare after just 10 months as Foreign Minister and I do not know how many times I have talked to my colleagues from those countries gradually, I do so very, very often guarantee that the only lighthouse, the only light in the dark, Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova have to navigate in the huge task ahead of them, are these agreements. And that's why it's crucial that we don't turn that light off.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143107	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143111	Thank you. I have visited Majdan Square, and that was very interesting because different groups were met. I met some leftists who said that they wanted rid of the corrupt President and dictator Janukovych, but they did not want a trade agreement with the EU; I met some right-wing people who saw it as their nationalist revolution; and I met some who had been to Majdan because they thought it was absolutely crucial to get this agreement as it is now. What I would like to ask the Foreign Minister is: what kind of experience does the Foreign Minister think we can do? In other words, we had a situation in which the European Union strongly criticised Janukovych because he did not want to make a free trade agreement with the European Union and put it out for 10 months, and now Poroshenko has postponed it for 2 years. We fully understand that Janukovych was a son of a bitch for many other reasons, but what is the situation? Well, we are in a situation where thousands have died and hundreds of thousands have been hunted on the run. What are our experiences? 'Cause unfortunately, the tracks are scaring me. So, in Georgia there was a war in 2008, and in Moldova there was a war in the 1990s. What can we do in the future to prevent this happening again and, above all, the conflict in Ukraine being stopped?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143230	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143231	I agree with the rapporteur's clear language with regard to the former President, but perhaps I would have expressed myself differently. In other words, as I see history here, it was a largely united parliament in Ukraine and President Janukovych who wanted to have an association agreement with the European Union. At the very last moment, judging by a very massive pressure from Moscow, Janukovych then decided to pull the plug and say that he would not sign anyway, but that he would postpone the decision, and then it goes on in Majdan Square. What can we learn from this? We can, of course, learn, to start at the soft end, that we must have in mind that, regardless of how this ends, Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova must be in a situation where they can trade and negotiate and live with both the European Union and Russia. It is their historic and geographical prerogative that they should be able to do so, and we must of course bear that in mind every time. We also want things to take time and that these are processes of change that we cannot take overnight. But if there's one in mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's question is whether there were things we in the European Union should have done differently fundamentally, I find it difficult to point to them very specifically, because I really think the European Union has accepted the invitation from Ukraine and said that we were ready. And then there was another great power that wasn't ready at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143411	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143413	It is, after all, a great deal of discussion that we are going to have here in a very short time. But it's thought-provoking. Because it can be said that there was a united parliament behind Janukovych when he wanted to reach an agreement, and he was then pressed by Russia, and there was a united parliament behind Poroshenko more or less, when he wanted to conclude an agreement with the European Union, and he was then pressured by Russia. Well, the situation has happened both times. After all, the dilemma is how much the European Union is prepared to pay... none of us wants a war with Russia... and how much we are prepared to provide financial compensation if Russia stops trading with Ukraine. That's the problem here. For what is Poroshenko and the Ukrainian Parliament looking forward to? I fear that one will be left alone, where reforms have then been carried out, which have affected large sections of the population, which will rightly be angry about it. And what are the consequences? How will the Secretary of State avoid this being the scenario?
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143516	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143517	I think these are quite relevant and good questions, and I wish I could answer them very accurately and briefly. However, as the rapporteur himself points out, this is probably the question that I think we are all asking ourselves these days because we are apparently dealing with a Russian government which sees this as a zero-sum game at the moment. The whole logic of both the EU itself and the EU's partner countries has been that it is not a zero-sum game, but that it is a plus-sum game. If we could implement the EU's trade and association agreement tomorrow, Ukraine's economy would grow, and that would also benefit the Russian economy, because they could then export more to Ukraine. So it is only if you have a very, very narrow geopolitical sphere of interest from the 20th century that you can see it as a kind of threat to trade more with the European Union. I could now have the feeling that it is the second part of the package, i.e. the democratic reforms, the anti-corruption, the release of the energy market, which is in fact the biggest problem for Russia, because it means that they have less control over Ukraine, and that means that we have to say that this is going to take time. We need to find a way in which everyone can be in this, but never let go of the goal: that Ukraine should be allowed to decide for itself and that Ukraine should be allowed to approach a democracy like the one we others know.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143647	No one else has asked for the floor, as I have at least recorded it, and if that is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141024143711	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday 30 October 2014, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the website.
