ParlaMint-DK_20141105125959	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 50 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc.) Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 51 (Proposal for a Law amending the Accounting Act. Transport Minister (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 52 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Aarhus Letbane. Bill No. L 53 (Proposal for a law on Odense Letbane). Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Morten Østergaard): Bill no. L 54 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Administrative and Regional Law of the Communes). for non-council/non-regional council members as members of committees). Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 55 (Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Taxation Act and various other laws. Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Behnke Behnke (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a youth court for young people aged 12-17). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130112	The first question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130127	Thank you. And as the rules prescribe, I'm just gonna read the question. Is it the Minister's view that the large drop in the number of public employees in the municipalities under the current government has meant a significantly lower service to citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130141	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130143	Thank you very much. The fact is that in recent years the municipalities have shown financial responsibility and have been through a greater adjustment of the economy also of the number of employees in the municipalities. And this is an adjustment which has been necessary, not least because, year after year, the municipalities exceeded their budgets under the previous government. And that was among other things. a consequence of the loss of control by the former government with the economy of the municipalities. The adaptation we have now been through has not been easy, and I think this is an excellent opportunity to commend the municipalities for having done it in a way that I think is generally sensible. Basically, I believe that the municipalities today provide an excellent welfare to the Danes. And then the relevant question is, of course, what we are going to do in the future. Here we propose to prioritise more money for public welfare over the next few years. This means that by 2020 there will be approx. 20 billion kr. more for public consumption than in a situation of zero growth. And this is going to happen, while continuing our efforts to get more out of the existing resources we are already using in the municipalities. On the other hand, the Left wants to take money from the municipalities, as it does among other things. appears in the party's financial bill. The development in the municipalities reflects that the municipalities have tightened up the management of the economy after a number of years of very large budget overruns. And this is a tightening-up which has also resulted in the accounts of the municipalities being considerably below the financial framework agreed with the government during that period. It has created a room for manoeuvre which the government has chosen to exploit, so that during the period the municipalities have been able to raise their capital investment to a very high level, well to mark by agreement. This is among other things. This was done as part of the government's kick-start, where the government made it possible to make a significant increase in capital investment, and with a wake-up DK Denmark, where the government and KL agreed to advance a number of capital investments. The municipalities have therefore been able to give priority to a high level of construction during the period and thus to develop the physical environment of welfare for the benefit of citizens, and this has been beneficial to growth and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130351	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130352	Thank you for that answer. Perhaps that was not a completely surprising answer, as I heard here. I understood from the Minister for Finance that he believes that the municipalities provide an excellent well-being... that's how I heard it. Does this mean, then, that the municipalities, and this is an answer we also have from the government; I even think it is from the finance minister, even when they have had to reduce their staff under this government by about 11,000 employees, with the fewer employees actually being able to provide an excellent service, as the Minister of Finance himself describes it? For that is how I have to understand when the Minister of Finance says that it is an excellent service that you get after the government has been in charge for three years and during that period in the municipalities has reduced the number of employees by around 11 000. This is a very good question, because, as the Minister of Finance himself says, we must also look forward, which is why it is interesting to see what we can get for the money and whether we can actually get an excellent service without you per. definition only gets a better service if you also spend more money. And that is why we on the Left have said that we have a good service today and that, of course, we can make it better, but that does not necessarily mean that we will have to spend more money on the better service. We can adapt in a more sensible way in certain areas, which means that we can get more money. And that is also why I think that the issue is also central to the future. Historically, under the current government, the municipalities have reduced their workforce by 11,000 full-time employees. The Minister of Finance says today that he thinks they provide an excellent service. I would just like to ask: does it also mean that the Minister of Finance considers that, with just the same number of employees, a reduction that we have seen over the last three years will not be able to provide an excellent service in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130535	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130537	Well, now I actually suffer from some kind of intellectual respect for the questioner, and that is one of my many weaknesses. In fact, I think that we have succeeded by some and that is why I would also like to try to reply. Can things in terms of welfare or any form of operation of an organization, including a private organization, be done better on occasion for the same means? Of course. The government has also shown this in practice that we have a policy to ensure in very many different contexts, not least this goal of releasing 12 billion. kr. in terms of efficiency in the public sector and using them targeted at the welfare we need most. Can you do things even better if you actually invest more money in it? Yes, I think that is obvious, and that is what we intend to do. Is there a risk of reducing service levels if you keep zero growth or cut back? Yeah, I think so. And my impression is that it is also the opinion of many of the representatives of the Left in municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130632	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130634	The interesting thing, then, is that we can see how things have progressed. That is what we must learn from the future. We then note and note that the minister and thus the government say that with fewer employees... the number of employees in the commmuns has been reduced by 11,000 over the last 3 years... still well able to provide an excellent service. We agree with that, because we do not see it as an end in itself to have a certain number. We see it as an end in itself to provide the best possible service, and I fully share that with the Minister for Finance, but it is only interesting to have the Minister for Finance's announcement today. I think that's good, and I sign for it. In fact, with the same number of employees you can get an excellent and actually also better service. It is a question of how to adapt and thus also organise quality. That is why I am surprised to hear this from several Social Democrats. I'll just take one quote to illustrate it. That's by Mr. Keating. Jeppe Bruus, who recently, September 16, said to the great crowned magazine Gladsaxeblade: "Lefts do not believe that zero growth means a deterioration in welfare. I mean, they're wrong. Does the Minister of Finance agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130731	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130732	Yeah, I actually agree very much with Jeppe Bruus. I do not really believe that we need to look to the Socialists to find a criticism of the strategy put forward by the Left. I understand that, in order to make the money stick together in the draft budget put forward by the Left, the Left has proposed that 1.5 billion be taken. kr. out of the municipalities' budgets, terminate the municipal agreement we have concluded and ask them to renegotiate budgets at a level of 1.5 billion. kr. lower. And it meets a very clear criticism not only from the Socialists, but also from the Left, based on the fact that it would mean a deterioration in welfare. So if you get this sorted out in your own ranks first, we can take the debate between the parties afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130809	Sir. Jacob Jensen, final round to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130813	Now I am a little confused, because the Minister of Finance says in his first answer that you can get an excellent service in the municipalities and that you have an excellent service in the municipalities, bearing in mind that in a situation where you have reduced the staff by 11 000 under the current government. Now the Minister says that it is not possible because a stop to expenditure, as we call it, the Minister calls it zero growth, will mean deterioration. Which of these do the Minister really think? I agree with the Minister that better service can be provided with the same employees and the same money. That is what our policy is about, but the Minister says one thing first, and now he says the other. Which of the two answers should I understand is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130850	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130852	I do not think for a moment that the questioner is confused. Not at all. I have too much respect for the questioner to think so. I have the view that it is possible and necessary to make it more efficient on an ongoing basis. I also have the view that, of course, extra resources allow things to improve and fewer resources create a more difficult situation. This whole debate would be a lot easier if the Left were to put forward a plan about what this zero-growth thing is about. I see in concrete debates with representatives of the Left that when they talk about the major welfare areas, they say that more money needs to be spent. This is true, for example. health, care for the elderly, education and the weakest. This must mean that for all other areas we cannot then know which areas it is that there should not be just zero growth, but less money spent. If we could get it black and white, I think the rest of the Danish Parliament is asking for that, not just me, but in fact also parties in the blue block, then there was a basis to take on this discussion. I look forward to that time coming, and I think that, if you want to take serious action towards the next parliamentary elections, you will have to put it open at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130947	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130953	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105130957	The question is: is it the Minister's assessment that the large drop in the number of public employees in the municipalities during this government is fleeing with the government's policy and the promises made by the Social Democrats before the 2011 elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131007	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131009	Yeah. Over recent years the municipalities have been through a major consolidation of the municipal economy that we have just discussed, and this has happened after a number of years of economically unsustainable growth in the municipalities under the previous government, culminating in a budget overrun of over 5 billion. kr. in 2009. In this way, the municipalities have taken responsibility and contributed to the consolidation of public finances, and the municipalities should be praised for this. At the same time, the government has prioritised funding for a targeted increase in the elderly area, the children's area and health in the municipalities. The day-to-day offer area has been lifted by 1⁄2 billion. kr., and last year, together, we gave the elderly area a boost of 1 billion. kr. And the municipal health area has been strengthened on several occasions with a total of just under 1 billion. kr. In the period 2011-2014, it is expected that overall public consumption will increase by approx. 10 billion kr, and this means that in addition to targeted lifting in the municipalities, we have also been able to ensure the lifting of e.g. the field of education and health. At the same time, the adaptation in the municipalities has allowed the government and KL to enter into political agreements where the municipal capital investment has been raised to a very high level. The municipalities have thus been able to develop the physical framework of welfare for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of growth and employment. When the government took over government responsibility three years ago, we were in a very difficult economic situation with large deficits in public finances, and this meant that in its first years at the helm, the government organized economic policy with a view to ensuring sound public finances while supporting growth and employment. This has meant that the government has prioritised within a financial framework which has been very narrow in historical terms. Despite these narrow frameworks, the government has pursued an economic policy which has made it possible to prioritise resources for public welfare and to keep a hand in growth and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131201	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131202	Thank you for your answer. It is interesting, of course, when you look at the wording of the question, that the number of public employees who have gone down with the 11 000, on which we have also received an answer from the Finance Minister, should flee with the policy that the government wants to implement and the promises that were made. The very first thing I heard the Minister of Finance say was: Yes. I have some doubts as to whether that was actually what he meant when he started, or rather rhetorical, because the promise made before the elections is very clear from the presentation called "A Fair Solution," which I am sure the Minister of Finance knows, almost literally, where it says: •Strengthening the economy of the municipalities by ensuring the basic level of service of the municipalities and full funding of new welfare initiatives by the Danish Parliament. The room for manoeuvre of the municipalities is increased by 12 billion. DKK That check for the 12 billion. kr. I mean, it's never been sent out. On the contrary, it has been exchanged for what the municipalities themselves call a giro card in the size of 1 billion. kr. I mean, you've had and spent 1 billion. kr. less. 12 billion had been promised. kr. More. And the development of the number of employees in the municipalities is, in fact, a good thing. That is why I am simply asking whether it is escaping with the policy that the government wants to pursue. Because I can now understand, as I have heard before, that you want to spend more money after a forthcoming election. As you know, I have just read out the quote that you wanted to do before the last election. So I just ask: why was it that that promise was not fulfilled? Was it because, as people now claim, we were not aware of the economic crisis we were going through, or were these budgetary overruns which I must understand were the cause of all the accidents in the world, while, moreover, I can list a list of promises of additional consumption, including in the municipal sector, which the Finance Minister's own party was behind? So why is it that the promise to increase the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities has not been fulfilled by 12 billion? kr. and thus lift the number of civil servants accordingly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131358	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131359	Basically, this is very simple, and we have had the discussion a great many times. It is the case that the economic policy of the Social Democratic Party, and also the economic policy of the government, has always been based on what we call a precautionary principle, which basically means that money must be raised before it is used, contrary to practice before the change of government. Some of the proposals referred to were based on the premise that a very responsible tripartite agreement could be reached on the public economy in Denmark, but, as you know, that could not be done. In addition, it has to be said that the economic situation we took over was not as it was described by the government that was before us. We made a cashier's check immediately after the change of government. There were not two lines under the heading that the outgoing Prime Minister had promised otherwise in his election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131446	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131447	So the fact that you have not been able to honour your promises should be based on what the previous government did not do. Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer? In other words, when one presented one's policy, it was presented, as it were, on false assumptions. It was thought that the economy was different than it was, and then you could promise to spend 12 billion. kr. extra in the municipalities. Then you suddenly find out about the election night or a few days after that it wasn't like that anyway, and that the crisis we were in the middle of was bigger than you thought. And that is why it was not possible to deliver on the promise made to the municipalities. Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131520	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131522	No, actually, it's not. It is the case that we drove with a precautionary principle in the election campaign itself. The only press conference we held at all in the election campaign was, in fact, about a precautionary principle in the economy. It is also in the government base and it has been fully practiced in the way we have driven economic policy. I do not think we can avoid that, and I might really be interested in hearing the questioner's view of it; but the questioner is free to say whether you will use your speaking time to answer that the terms outlined by the outgoing government, that is to say that now the public economy in Denmark was under control; now there were two lines under control; now we were out of the crisis; now growth came back; now there was nothing left to do in relation to public finances, sustainability, structural balance by 2020 and the other objectives we have proved to be to a very bad degree. It was a completely different and more serious situation that had to be dealt with than what had been told by the outgoing government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131617	Sir. Jacob Jensen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131619	So I have to understand that the promises that are now being made in the future, that is to say that we want to increase the public budgets, which were also promised before the last elections, are now being promised again, and this time it is called 0.6%. Should I then understand that the growth of the public economy will not happen if the premises that have been set up do not last? After all, we can now see that the growth figures that people work for politically have been downgraded over and over again. May I understand that if the growth figures that you are working on in the coming years are not reached, then you cannot honour your promise to increase public budgets by 0.6%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131659	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131700	Now it gets a little bit technical, but actually also pretty interesting. No, it is the way we run economic policy now, under this government, that there is something more to it than there has been in the past. And that means that the way we make 2020 plans and set up these frameworks is much more solid than you've been used to. In the past, the 2020 plans have had an objective of having a certain percentage increase in public consumption based on what was called a demand process, that is to say, the objectives of adopting difficult things that would not be discussed before getting started. What is the case with the current 2020 plan is that they 0.6%. We are discussing the work that had to be done to obtain them is done, and thus economic policy and economic planning are far more solid than what was seen under a bourgeois government, fortunately then.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131751	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Finance. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Justice of Peter Skaarup. I must point out that there are so many questions for the Minister of Justice that it is not certain that we will reach them all within the hour allotted, but now we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131803	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131812	Thank you. The question is this: what initiatives has the Minister taken on the basis of the study prepared by the Minister, cf. the Minister's answer to Question No. S 106 in the Assembly Hall on 22 October 2014, in order to address the acute problem that the police at Copenhagen Airport no longer have access to the so-called PIU register, containing among other things: Passenger lists and credit card information, for example, for the control of illegal persons?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131848	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105131850	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to follow up the discussion we had in the Chamber 14 days ago. I would like to start by saying that it is, of course, right and important for the authorities to have access to the necessary information so that we know what is going on at our airports and in our border areas at all, because it is important in terms of combating cross-border crime, illegal immigration and other problems we face. I have sent a statement to the Danish Parliament yesterday to conclude the dialogue we had in the Chamber two weeks ago explaining the reason why the PIU cooperation between the Copenhagen Police and the SKAT has ended. As can be seen from the statement transmitted either yesterday or today, the Copenhagen Police have announced that SKAT has announced to the police at the end of August 2014 that it no longer wishes to continue its cooperation, as there have been doubts about the police's authority to access certain passenger data from the airlines. I think that, in the light of the factual statement, as it is, there are two things that need to be made clear. First of all, this underlines the importance of the draft law that the government is about to put forward, which is about strengthened control facilities for the police in border areas and airports. It is, of course, a proposal which deals precisely with these problems and which must give the police independent access to passenger data. I therefore hope that the Danish People's Party will also vote in favour of the proposal. Once we have this proposal adopted, which I naturally hope we will receive, a notice will be issued which regulates access by the police to the use of passenger data. So the process of getting the legislative framework in place has been set in motion. Secondly, and this is also what I said in the Chamber two weeks ago, we will of course have to consider whether, in the current situation, we will have to do something. Therefore, a meeting of the Ministry of Justice is actually being held this week, where SKAT and the National Police take part. That's where we're putting a plan for the time being for the law to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132107	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132109	Thank you for your answer. I think it is absolutely good that a meeting is being held now about these things. We have had it up in Question Time 14 days ago, and I am glad that in the meantime at least some things are being put in place, but in the statement we have received here from the Minister for Justice, I think it is unfortunate if it should end there that a legislative proposal should be adopted, that an announcement should be made before we can do the right thing in this matter. I would like to ask the Minister if he does not agree that if we have this unsustainable situation and I understand that the Minister agrees with that part it is important that rapid action should be taken, and so now the police at Copenhagen Airport have taken a step backwards since the end of August, which we may then be able to offset now or later. This is already an untenable situation because you need to check these various credit card details and other information to find illegal persons entering our country. So this is a step backwards which I hope the Minister will at least correct, so the police are at odds with what they were able to do in the past. In addition, of course, there is the whole discussion of what we can do more, because that is where I really want to go, and the Danish People's Party would like to go, both when it comes to staffing and when it comes to other measures that can address the problem we have today, with the fact that there are also a great many illegal asylum seekers coming to Denmark. There are people who show up here, and the moment they get taken by the police, for example. At Vesterbro or Nørrebro or somewhere else in Copenhagen, they seek asylum in order to protect themselves from the situation that has arisen. So I would like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister agree that it cannot wait for an announcement long before action is taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132311	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132313	It is probably not a good idea for the authorities in Denmark to act without a legal basis, so of course there must be a proper legal basis. But of course that doesn't change the fact that we should be aware of what is happening at Copenhagen Airport, and that's why I asked for a statement as to why the cooperation with SKAT has ended. It was new information for me and then the authorities in question have been summoned to a meeting of the Ministry this week, so that we can find out if a solution can be found until the bill is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132342	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132343	As I said, it is very good that meetings are held, but I would like to see action, and there must be consistency between what you say and what you do, and I hope the Minister will agree with that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is quite confident about the checks which, following the statement, are now being carried out at the airport, that is to say, without being able to do the things that lie here without having been given the staff supply that has been talked about for a long time, when there has been a need for it, the police themselves have meant 50 extra office staff to take care of passport control, so that the police could be freed to take control of the illegal persons.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132417	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132419	At any rate, I can say that I think it is extremely important that we in Denmark know who is crossing our borders, so that we have as effective a protection as possible both in terms of cross-border crime and illegal immigration. That is why we will soon be putting forward a legislative proposal which must be precisely about strengthening that effort. I hope the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of this. When we think it is necessary, so to speak, to tighten up on this issue, it is of course because we do not think it is good enough that things are going on today. We must recognise the framework provided by European cooperation, but it is clear that as Minister of Justice I would very, very much like to know what is happening around our borders. That is also why we are putting forward the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132458	Then it's the last round for Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, as there are no co-questioners present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132503	In the final round, I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice when we can expect action. Now I understand that there is going to be a meeting and whether it is this week or next week, the Minister will have to answer, but when does the Minister expect that the police can be on the ground? You could say that the police are innocent of this. It's not a thing that's grown in the police yard. This is something that has happened over at SKAT, and it is therefore to be expected that good cooperation can take place between the relevant authorities here. I think it is excellent that the government agrees with the Danish People's Party that border controls work. What is then needed is that something is happening, that we are moving forward and that resources are also coming along, and I am still not entirely convinced that the government is in control, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132553	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132555	But then this round of questions ends up incredibly happy, because if the parties of the Folketing agree with the government that we need to work more closely around our borders, and I think most of the parties of the Folketing are, hopefully we will be able to reach a broad agreement on the legislative proposal that we are in the process of adopting, because that is absolutely necessary. It is quite, quite serious for Denmark with the problems we have both with cross-border crime and with illegal immigration. Then there is a current issue at Copenhagen Airport, which we agree on is important. That is why I have asked for a statement on what is going on and the authorities have been summoned to attend. And then, of course, I make a decision on the basis of it, in relation to what we can do here in the short run.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132639	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice and this time from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132646	Sir. Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132648	Thank you. The question is as follows: Will the Minister explain whether she agrees with Aarhus Mayor Jacob Bundsgaard when he in The Washington Post, according to www.jp.dk, on 20 October 2014 about returned Islamists among others. are quoted for the following: "We cannot pass laws that change the way they think and feel. But can we show them that we are serious about integration and dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132714	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132716	Thank you. I would like to say at the outset that I have no understanding whatsoever of the fact that one life I think one has is spent on going to Syria, Iraq or anywhere else and fighting for Islamic State or anyone else who doesn't want humanity or this world community any good at all. There is every reason to distance ourselves from the fact that there are Danes who go out and fight on the wrong side of democracy and human rights. We must respond to this as a society, we must react promptly to prevent people from travelling out. After all, we in the government are proposing to do this the hard way forward by, for example, being able to take the passport from Danes or not issuing passports and by preventing foreigners from having a permanent basis for residence, and then, as authorities, we must of course do everything we can to prevent the radicalisation which is at the root of some going out. To the very specific question, I would say that the mayor of Aarhus, if the quote is correct, is right in that it is extremely difficult to pass laws that change how people think and feel. I assume the questioner agrees with me on that. It could be convenient in some contexts, but it is probably very good that we are neither trying nor able to do so. If the question is whether I agree that integration and dialogue are the only solutions when it comes to radicalisation, then the answer is no. So, I think it is important to walk on two legs: on the one hand, we must fight hard when it comes to terrorism and radicalisation and to go to Syria right now and become a holy warrior; on the other hand, of course, we must do everything we can to prevent young men and women from going that way at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132856	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105132858	Thank you for your answer. The Minister is quite right that this is the last part of the quote which, moreover, is correct I am referring to. I think I'd be accused of impeccability if I hadn't brought the first part of the quote. It is also true, as the Minister has outlined, that there are two sorts of clues in this. One is about those who have been present in one form or another in these ISIL-controlled areas, and the other is about what will happen when they get home. These are the first two main tracks. Another clue is about what we do ahead of it, that is, all the preventive and what happens when these Islamists for one reason or another return to Denmark. I understand that what the Mayor of Aarhus says is "without me having to shame the quote" refers to an article that is about what happens when the Islamists come home to Denmark and so have been down fighting on ISIL's side. I would like to know whether the Minister will elaborate a tiny bit more about what methods to use when these Islamists return to Denmark, either because they are Danish citizens or because they are here on a residence permit. Is there anything at all here that says that you are wearing velvet gloves, is there anything at all here that says that when they return from these areas, you should try dialogue and integration, which the Mayor of Aarhus says something about in this quote?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133046	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133047	I must be quite honest and say that, in my view, when it comes to people who have travelled to either Iraq or Syria in the current period and fought on the same side as the Islamic State, there is one point that is of serious interest to me, and it is of course that the authorities uncover whether there is any basis whatsoever for prosecuting the acts that may have been committed. In other words, we are in touch with such a brutal conflict and such a brutal organisation that there is nothing at all attenuating about it, so the primary interest for the Danish authorities must be whether a pattern of action can be discovered to determine whether there is a basis for raising a charge if, for example, they have been involved in acts of war, crimes against humanity and peace or other very, very offensive acts which may well have taken place in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133143	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133144	I am therefore pleased that the Minister is replying because it is • according to what I can interpret from the Minister's reply • then also a cold washing of Aarhus Mayor Jacob Bundsgaard when he says that we must deal with the returned warriors with integration and dialogue. So all I have to do is ask the minister here to finish the first round. I think it's • if we saw when, for example, we saw. to negotiate the pool of rates and other issues relating to prevention, in fact can ignore all the elements that are about dialogue, integration, functional family therapy and such things, and then concentrate on punishing those who return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133233	I feel that way when it comes to returning holy warriors, there is no reason either to be romantic or naive. Well, it's so horrible what's going on in the Middle East right now. This means that any form of support for the Islamic State, wherever it may come from, there is reason to distance ourselves from, including the Danes who spend their poor lives travelling to the wrong side of a conflict. I had no need for either velvet gloves or other therapy, I was going to say, in relation to those concerned. What I am most concerned about is whether there can be grounds for making charges if those concerned have been involved in illegal activities, and there must be reason to assume that they have if they have been left. Having said that, there may of course be people who have regretted their actions and want to spend the rest of their lives on the side of democracy and a normal life, and there must of course be an opportunity to return to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133325	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133330	Thank you, and thank you from here to the Minister for the answer to the question. I believe that in the article in question in the Washington Post we have been produced with the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus. In any case, it is important for us in the Left not only to signal it to Washington Post's readers in the United States, but in general and most importantly to the Danish people that when you have been in Syria and committed terror and come to Denmark and pose a security risk, even if there is no burden of proof for it, then the authorities' response is not dialogue and integration, but it is among other things. the monitoring carried out by PET. I understand that the Minister agrees, and that is welcome. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister is going to do anything to push us to prosecute this group of young people who have been down there and whether she is going to do something about the problem of the burden of proof that has been lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133432	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133435	I feel quite basically that if you commit a criminal offence, you should also be prosecuted for the fact that this must be the starting point. And there is, as I said before, no one. There is nothing I want more than that we, in terms of authority, do what we can at all to prosecute those who apologize for the use of language, no, I should not say what I think about those Danes or resident foreigners who leave for it. Having said that, the questioner knows very well that lifting the burden of proof can be a really difficult task, because it can simply be difficult to get access to what has happened, who is responsible for what actions and what has been done by the person concerned, because it is probably not that easy to get evidence of what is happening right now in and around Syria, for many, many reasons. This should not prevent the authorities from trying to do so, and I have a clear expectation that PET will keep a very, very sharp focus on those who may have returned from Syria, whether it is about prosecuting them or, by the way, uncovering their doings and barns. Because we must expect there to be a security risk when people have been travelling to Syria. I agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133552	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133554	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. The reason why I asked is that it is usually the prosecution that decides whether charges should be filed, while, in relation to the terrorist paragraph, it is the Minister of Justice who will ultimately have to decide specifically whether or not to prosecute. Now the Minister is new in this area, but I can say that we have had a dialogue in the past with the previous Minister for Justice and also with the predecessor of the previous Minister for Justice about the use by the Minister for Justice of the possibility of raising these cases, i.e. in the form of test cases, to test whether the legislation we have is good enough to lift a burden of proof. So I would just like to sign for the Minister's answer and say that we will look forward to discussing it further with the Minister for Justice because there is
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133644	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133649	Thank you for that, and thank you once again to the Minister for answering this question. I'm just gonna follow up on sir. Karsten Lauritzen's question from before say that the problem here is that it is difficult to lift a burden of proof. I understand the government's view that it is practically per year. automatic will pill the residence permit from those who are staying in the areas concerned if they are staying and that people will be deprived of the passport if they suspect that they are leaving the country to participate in terrorist activities. We have a group of Danish citizens left who are at risk of flying under the radar of the authorities. Will the Minister be willing to take a discussion, including that of the Council of Ministers? with my party, to find some models for how to deal with this very group of Danish citizens, who risk flying under the radar of the authorities when they travel to Syria, to Iraq, and risk returning radicalised?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133744	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133747	Yes, I would like to give a commitment on that. But I do hope that they do not fly under the radar, because one of the reasons why we have an intelligence service is precisely that you have to be able to uncover this. It is a difficult area to work in, but I have a good feeling that PET is also quite aware of what is going on in the environments that may be the senders here. But that is why the questioner may well be right that there are also people who can walk so quietly with the doors and maybe even act completely on their own that it can be difficult for both the police and the PET to uncover their doings and barn. But it can be said that the whole idea of the future bill is that it is on the basis of the knowledge that the authorities may have about who intends to leave, that you can both issue an exit ban and withdraw the passport, and that is exactly what concerns Danish nationals. Whether there may be further initiatives, I am very, very open to discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133842	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mrs Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133853	Will the Minister define a relaxation of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133859	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133900	I would say that as a minister I have been asked many questions over time, and I have never acted as a Nudanic dictionary, but if that is the way in which the Danish Parliament thinks we should use the time in the Chamber, then we can agree to it. I think that if you look up in the Danish dictionary under the word relaxation, you will see that it is defined as a change that makes something more reasonable or affordable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105133922	Well, thank you for the answer. When I ask, it is not just because the Minister is going to be a Nudanic dictionary for the Folketing, but it is because the Minister gave a rather interesting interview shortly after his accession, in which the Minister said that the debate on the question of the 'faster-slaps' should be brought to an end in the debate on foreigners, and I think the Minister is actually aware of that, but the Minister is free to answer as she wishes. Nevertheless, it is almost daily that the Prime Minister says that the government is now tightening up in the area of asylum. Well, I actually noticed an interview that the Prime Minister gave, where she said something very desperately at the end of the day: well, this is a tightening up. It was like what it was all about, i.e. it was a tightening up on this field. So it is just to say that it is not certain that the Minister and the Prime Minister are entirely in agreement on this, because the Prime Minister is at least very concerned that the government is now tightening up in the area of asylum. On the other hand, it has been somewhat difficult to get the members of the government to take the floor in their mouths when it comes to foreign policy, and that is, of course, despite the fact that the government has relaxed 31 times in the field of foreigners. And that's why I really think it would be very nice if we could try to talk about each other a little bit more closely. Because in the opposition and in the Left we can identify both a tightening and a relaxation when we see them. For us, this is a relaxation when, in the field of foreigners, we do things which either 1) involve increased costs or 2) increase access to Denmark for foreigners. It's a relief in my world. So you can actually be specific, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister: was this a relaxation when starting aid was abolished? And was this a relaxation when you changed the attachment requirement for family reunifications to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134131	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134133	Well, I have to be honest and say that you can spend your time on word games, and that may be what you think is the right thing to do. You could also try to solve some of the problems that are and use your energy on it, and I will then choose the latter. In relation to the start-up aid discussion and whether or not the start-up aid is a relaxation, I would say that I have always considered the discussion about the start-up aid as something quite different. Since people are part of the Danish community, for startup aid has not been concentrated on some groups for some periods, it was a more general benefit to a relatively large group, so one must at least have made a balance of what one might believe in by financial incentives, reasonable in relation to the level of benefits and then people's ability to live a decent life when a large part of the group does not get into work. And that is a really, really difficult balance to find, and that is why we have abolished the start-up aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134231	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134233	Now the minister says something about being part of Danish society. I do not see it as being part of Danish society if, for example, you are a part of Danish society. not participate in the labour market, cannot speak Danish at a level that makes it possible to understand oneself and does not participate in the ordinary life of society. So that's where I think we just disagree. But I understand that the word game to which the Minister refers does not apply to the Prime Minister or what? Because the Prime Minister is very concerned that this is a tightening up in the area of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134308	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134310	Then it depends on how to define what is part of Danish society. Because when you're here and you live here, you're part of Danish society. We can then have many opinions about when citizenship really unfolds and what it really means to be integrated. It is, of course, a completely different discussion, and I am not sure there is such a difference of opinion. Because I have a fundamental problem with the fact that we have so many women with minority backgrounds who are not part of our labour market. After all, I have been Minister for Employment for three years and have followed all statistics and areas very, very closely. It's a huge challenge, and it's a very, very big problem that we've let this develop for decades. That is why both the early retirement and the cash benefits reform are also very important tools in ensuring better integration in Denmark on the longer track.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134400	Last round to Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134402	I understand that the Minister will not reply to what she calls a word game when it is the Prime Minister who takes part in that word game. The Prime Minister is doing an incredibly great job of saying that this is a tightening up. However, I can understand that it is only word games when it is the opposition that discusses relaxations versus austerity. And that means that you can ask whether the 31 amendments are yes, or what is it called? Is it allowed to be called, or how and how? I understand that when it is the Prime Minister who says that something is a tightening, it is not a word game. But when it is the opposition that says that something is a tightening, then it is just a play of words and not something that has real meaning. I think it is important for a Minister of Justice to go into his area and actually take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134454	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134456	Oh, I guess it's hard to accuse me of not taking the area seriously. After all, there is no doubt that with the changes we are proposing in the area of asylum, this is a tightening up in relation to the rules that are currently in place. And what I object to is that we need to have a dialogue in the Parliamentary Chamber, in which a minister is asked whether we want to define a concept which, in fact, can only be looked up in the dictionary if it is not too much effort. However, the accusation that there is a lack of seriousness and commitment as a minister in his area seems to me to be simply deserving and to create an unnecessarily poor environment for debate. I would very much like to stand for discussion here in the Chamber and would urge the Left to do the same. We can use the discussion to define words if the Left needs it. We could also do the same as other members of the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen and Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, who spends their time discussing the content of the policy. I personally find this more interesting, and there are also very good representatives from the Left who can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134556	The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Justice is by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134602-2	In fact, I think it is a question that lies in the intermediate category if it is finally to be, but now I will read it out. Does the Minister consider that there is clarity as to how many asylum seekers will be covered by the adjustments proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134616	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134618	I think that is a completely relevant question which is being asked by the Left. Of course, I am very, very happy to answer that. It can be said that the whole background to the issue here and the discussion is, of course, that we are proposing from the government that a new temporary protection be introduced for people fleeing, for example, civil war. It has been updated by a fairly large influx of asylum right now, mainly from Syria, which puts us in an extraordinary situation. What we are proposing is that, if you are covered by temporary protection, you will be granted a residence permit which is initially valid for one year. Because you expect them to only be in Denmark for a shorter period of time, they cannot get their family on the basis, and this means that family reunification is only achieved after 1 year. These restrictions and changes will only apply to asylum seekers who are not individually persecuted. The questioner knows all about this, because we have discussed it in the past. How many people will then be included in this, the questioner asks, and I understand that, because there has also been a lot of public discussion about figures. You cannot give a clear, definitive answer to that question, because it will depend on how many asylum seekers come to Denmark and it will depend on who comes to Denmark and seeks asylum. At the moment we are seeing a very large group of asylum seekers from Syria. Many of them, most of them, are at the moment. individually persecuted and covered by the Refugee Convention. The latest figures indicate that this is as much as 77 per cent. Those groups will not be subject to the restrictions on asylum that we are calling for. At the same time, I would also like to say that things can change. The situation in the Middle East may change, which refugees move from neighbouring areas to Denmark, for example, may change, and the composition may also change, but at present the vast majority of the Syrians who come here will be categorized as individually persecuted and thus covered by the Convention's rules of protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134831	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134833	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to add that I actually think that my party colleague Inger Støjberg's question was quite relevant. The Minister would not answer that question, but spent his time commending me and Mr. Martin Geertsen. We appreciate that, but we are always a little sceptical when the government ministers praise us. But we're gonna sign anyway, and I'm also gonna sign for the answer. As I have said, we have asked because there has been some confusion, and the Minister admits that, too, how many are covered. First, I think that the former Minister of Justice said that it was the majority, then it was a third, and now it is only according to the answer I have received I asked the former Minister between a quarter and a fifth of the Syrian asylum seekers who are covered by this tightening up. The proportion of Syrian asylum seekers who have been granted protection status is, as far as I am aware, around 20%. Can the Minister say whether there is any clarity as to whether they are 22 per cent? will be included in the tightening-up that the government is doing? In other words, can we move the 22 per cent that are receiving protection status today into this new status with limited rights to family reunification created by the government? Is there anything you can say about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134954	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105134955	You don't have to be so worried when I'm praising you. I think it is extremely relevant that we have discussions in the Assembly on both asylum and aliens and justice policy at all. I just say in all silence that I myself find it more interesting to discuss substance than anything else, but people obviously have their different preferences, feelings and needs. Then there is the specific question. Now 22 per cent are said. If it is approx. Seventy-seven per cent, who are on the basis of individual persecution, the second figure must probably be 23 per cent. I think that the Left and the Social Democrats can agree on how we can get up to 100%. We shall then be asked whether we believe that they are 23 per cent. will be covered by the new rules. I think it would be wise to wait for the substance of the specific asylum cases to be dealt with before making a very sloppy statement about it, because for good reasons I cannot know until the cases have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135053	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135055	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We agree on what 100 percent. Is. I can confirm that. We're not going to discuss that. I would also like to sign for the Minister's reply, because as I heard the Minister now the Minister must not take the view that I am putting the words in the Minister's mouth it is difficult to say how many exactly will be covered. The conclusion must then be drawn, and it must then be my question to the Minister, that there is no clarity as to how many will be covered by this new status that the government is doing. We will only know that when a practice has developed; we will only know that when a period of time has elapsed. And that means that we do not really know what effect the intervention, as the Prime Minister says is a very strong tightening, will have before we have seen the reality of the applications. Is that what the Minister of Justice says?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135147	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135149	What the Minister is saying is that today there is no possibility of providing only a temporary basis for residence for the group of Syrians we are talking about here and, incidentally, other asylum seekers. We want that to happen in the future. That is why we have submitted a bill for consultation. However, in the area of asylum, the situation of the individual asylum seeker is being dealt with. Very large groups of asylum seekers who came here in 2014 have not completed their asylum case. Therefore, for good reasons, and for all others too, I cannot know the outcome. Is it possible to say something about it if I go back to the Ministry of Justice and ask: on the basis of what has happened so far, can one say something about it? I would very much like to try to ask that, but we will not be able to give a complete picture until matters are settled. I think the questioner is right about that, but I would like to ask you back to the Ministry of Justice whether you can get closer than what I am saying here. It may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135250	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135254	Thank you. I would just like to start by saying that I do not think the Minister is thinking about what enormous problems she has caused Mr. Karsten Lauritzen and me inside the Left by commending us the way she did before. It's horrible. Two of the Minister for Justice's colleagues, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and the Minister for Integration, have said very, very clearly here recently that asylum seekers who come to this country and have a stay of up to one year in the first place must have the full integration package, like those who are personally persecuted. And I know it is not the minister's resort, but I would like to ask the Minister a little brazenly if that is not to be seen as the pure confession case in the sense that when you want to make a full integration programme for some people who are actually required to be repatriated after 1 year, you are really undermining what the government claims to be an alien political austerity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135404	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135406	I don't need to deal with any confession cases in this area. There is, I think, a balance which must be found in relation to the current situation we are in. I think it is wise, and I think it is also justifiable, both in relation to international commitments and to the humanitarian disaster in which the Middle East finds itself, that we are thinking more of a refugee than of today as something that is going on temporarily. One can easily discuss why no one has had the idea in the past, because it must be the case that when you flee a civil war, what you need is a roof over your head, it's clothes on your body, it's medicine if you're sick, it's food to eat. In my view, this is what is essential to put in place. Then we can always discuss how much we have to start as a society in addition, and it is quite right that it is outside my area of responsibility, because I am responsible for people when they come to the country and when they deal with their foreign affairs. Integration issues must be addressed with my colleague in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135508	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135510	I fully respect that. What I wanted to say to this is that when the Minister says that it is possible to discuss how much action should then be taken in relation to integration programmes, the problem is that, following the two radical colleagues of the Minister for Justice, this cannot be done So, that is to say, that the Minister for Justice is trying to tighten up immigration policy according to the government itself, and then the two radical colleagues come along and say that it may well be that the Minister for Justice has tightened up, but they are running a full integration programme. Can we not say that the government here has brought itself into a bit of a crossroads of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135549	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135550	It can be said that what is meant by the integration programme, which has worked for a number of years, is also to ensure that there is a meaningful content in everyday life when you live and move in Danish society; that is what our refugees will do, even if they only have to be here temporarily. However, it would of course be natural, when organising the work in the municipalities, to have the temporary in mind, including as regards the content of the integration programme. I also assume that consideration is already being given to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135621	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135624	Thank you. Now I understand that the Minister will not admit that the austerity which the Prime Minister and perhaps the Minister's colleagues have oversold in saying that it affects the majority is a confession case. I would say to the Minister that if the Minister did so, we will guarantee that we will praise the Minister, but that, like the previous praise, can put the Minister in some trouble, so we understand that she cannot. What I would like to ask the Minister here to conclude is whether the Minister can say when there is no clarity as to how many people are exactly affected by the fact that we are probably down to something that looks like a quarter, that is not the majority, but about a third or a quarter of asylum seekers, who will be affected by the austerity that the government is calling for, so that it is probably not going to be much more than that. Could the Minister say anything in conclusion about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135726	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135726-2	Yes, I would very much like to, because it gives me the opportunity to stress again that the figure for the 77 versus the 23 is a snapshot, and there is no one, nor in the Danish Parliament, who knows what the situation is like when we come forward for six months. Is it some other people who want to flee to Denmark? How much will the number be? With what background do they come here? The flow of refugees may change, but that does not change the fact that what is the starting point for the whole asylum debate is that we have a really, really difficult situation in the Middle East. Now we have just discussed the Islamic State with terror glasses, but it should be borne in mind that when there is an Islamic State right now in Iraq and Syria, it throws away the flow of refugees. One cannot, in my view, take the view, nor the view of the Assembly, that it is strange that people are fleeing from the Islamic State. They are horrible, and they spread war and terror around them, so many people are sent on the run, some come to Denmark. Who exactly it is and the distribution of individually persecuted and not individually persecuted is something we must follow closely, and then we must take stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135837	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135843	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135843-2	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with his predecessor that asylum shopping is taking place in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135848	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135853	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105135854	I must just have the sip of water that I had actually intended to take while the Minister gave a full answer. Then I will expand the question a little bit. It was the former Minister of Justice, Mrs Karen Hækkerup, who, as a reason for taking the foreign policy initiatives taken recently by the government, had to counteract asylum shopping. I think we can use this short exchange of views just to put some definitions in place so that we understand each other. I think we agree that water runs like water runs. I understand that the government has sometimes defended the view that it is of course important for the influx to Denmark what asylum rules we have in this country. What I would like to ask the Minister a little more about is that we have discussed it before, but now we have the opportunity to do it again on economic conditions, in other words on the economic conditions that are being given to foreigners who come to this country. My claim will be that when you as a smuggler in the world have to assess Danish conditions, you look at the asylum rules, but you also see what economic attraction value there is in coming to Denmark. I have discussed this with some Socialist rapporteurs who say that the world cannot be seen in this way at all. But what puzzles me is if the market doesn't exactly work on this point, i.e. that economic incentives shouldn't work exactly on this point. Then we can have some more general political discussion about whether we think that the start-up aid for example had a reasonable level and there we may have political disagreements about it. However, what I am asking is whether the Minister agrees that economic conditions in this country also have an attraction value in relation to how many people apply here as asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140103	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140104	There are two things I really want to say to that. One is that I basically believe that it is the case that the people who are trying to get away right now, either from Assad in Syria or from the Islamic State either in Iraq or in Syria, have first and foremost one interest, and that is to come under protection. The vast majority are fleeing to the vicinity, some are coming to Europe. Having said that, there should be no illusions whatsoever in the area of asylum, because there is a hardcore infrastructure behind the asylum system of trafficking in human beings, perhaps even trafficking in human beings, I do not know, but at least with trafficking in human beings. It's very well organized, and millions of dollars are being earned in this area right now. There I have no doubt that many of those who are behind this traffic and that is huge sin, because first people have to flee war, then some come into the hands of some market mechanisms and some backers who are not good to say about • well know what to say to asylum seekers. I think there's a lot of things I can do. It may be family reunification rules, it may be accommodation conditions, and it may be how the police accept people, and of course it may also be what you have access to as an asylum seeker. I think that a great many things can be included in that discussion and that information, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140216	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140217	In any case, I do not remember that in the past we have had an admission from a Social Democratic Minister of Justice on precisely this point, in other words that economic conditions, together with a lot of other conditions, have an impact on where asylum seekers seek the information they have received from traffickers. In fact, I think this is about the first time that we have had a Social Democratic Minister of Justice admit exactly that. And it is clear that the forward-looking discussion will then go on why we cannot change some of the economic conditions so that we can also regulate the influx to Denmark. So my question here in the second round is whether the Minister of Justice, together with his government colleagues, and together with us, will be willing to look at some of these economic conditions, which I now understand from the Minister of Justice as something completely new in social democratic logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140316	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140317	Well, there's no admission in this, and you have to be careful not to overdo it and underdo it. Because there is no one, neither sir. Martin Geertsen or I who know exactly what is at stake in the area of asylum, and we will never find out. It is, of course, a deeply criminalised area in terms of trafficking in human beings. So we can't know exactly what's at stake. The only thing we can say is what we think can be taken into account, and I will stubbornly insist that I believe that what drives the individual is first and foremost a need for protection. In addition, there is an infrastructure and backers who, I think, have quite a lot of knowledge about what is going on in individual countries. But how the components interact with each other, none of us know anything about it. So for me, there's nothing new in this. I have also said so on other occasions. I do not think that this means that we should reinstate the start-up aid in Denmark, but it is too long for me to be able to reply when the President of the Danish Parliament has already asked me to sit down again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140416	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140422	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for replying so briefly to the preliminary question. As I understand the Minister's reply, the Minister says that she recognises the concept of asylum shopping. This is what is illustrated if you look at how many asylum seekers Denmark has taken this year, namely something similar to what 10-15 southern European countries have taken at least some of them. Poland has taken 500, Lisbon also a few hundred. And that is probably because it is more attractive to come to the northern European countries where you have some well-developed welfare states. The Minister acknowledges that. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister expects that the tightening up of the rules on family reunification that the Minister will make will lead to fewer people choosing to apply to Denmark, so whether the Minister can de- or confirm that the asylum shopping will be smaller or the choice of Denmark will become less frequent as a result of the tightening of the right to family reunification.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140524	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140525	I cannot really find out whether we are really approaching a quite great compliment from the Left Party to me, because I almost get such a prophetic character in the Assembly Hall, including that I can foresee, both how all of the world's streams of refugees go and what exactly is the motive of each refugee; what exactly happens with each individual backman, and whether everyone is listening to the Danish debate in the field of asylum. I do not think I will be able to give a complete answer or picture of it, and that is why it must be based on assumptions. Yes, I think it is the case that when Denmark announces that there is a tightening up in the area of asylum, it is the market in the area of asylum. I am so sorry that this market has arisen, and I think it is such a pity for those people that they should end up in the hands of those backers. I think so, sir. Karsten Lauritzen agrees with me. But yes, I think it is the case that it is being passed on in one way or another, that there can be a tightening up in Denmark and that, for example, it can happen in Denmark. can have a consequence in terms of family reunification. But the exact relationship of strength between it and all other factors involved, I do not think any of us can give a picture of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140641	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140642	Thank you. I can say that I myself, and I think I speak on behalf of the whole Left Parliamentary Group, regard neither the Minister as a prophet nor a fortune teller. I think that would also be an unworthy name for a minister in any government. But it is a relevant discussion whether a tightening like this means that there will be a smaller influx to Denmark. The Minister says that the Minister is counting on it, but the Minister cannot say how much less. What I would like the Minister to admit is that if you relax in a number of areas, if you improve conditions in a number of areas, that may be the economic incentive, and that may be the family reunification rules, then it must also lead to an increase in attraction. Does the Minister agree with that? Then we can always discuss how much tightening means and how much relaxation means. However, the fact that the system is such and that it supports asylum shopping would, in conclusion, be acceptable to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140735	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140736	Well, I don't have a basis for denying that it can play a part. If you look at this soberly, it is true that the questioner says that there are European countries that receive fewer asylum seekers than Denmark does. However, there are also European countries that receive many more, such as our neighbouring country, Sweden, where the number is much, much larger than it is in Denmark. And again: I think we should be careful not to overdo and, to that extent, underdo the effects of the individual components. Well, there is, for example. the question of why we will have fewer asylum seekers in Denmark in October than in September. No one can know that exactly. Is this a trend, are these coincidences? Is it the train strike in Germany, is it the autumn coming on the Mediterranean, is it the announced austerity, or is it the start of fingerprinting in Italy? Perhaps all elements are involved, and the exact relationship of strength is not really anyone who knows anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140829	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140831	I should like to begin by commending the now appointed prophet in the form of the Minister of Justice for having arranged for us to debate economic conditions. Because, as I said at the outset, I have been in quite a lot of debates with Socialist rapporteurs who have defended the view: do you really think that refugees are sitting in a refugee camp in Iraq or Syria thinking of economic conditions? Now, of course, we have a platform, a common platform, to discuss on, because the Minister here recognises that there may be economic attraction value on the transfer income we have. Then we can discuss on a common platform. I think it has been beneficial to get it in place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140916	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105140917	But let me add the nuance: if you are sitting in a tent camp in Lebanon right now, with little access to sanitary facilities, with little access to clean water, medicine and schooling for your children, in a few square meters with your wife and children, then I do not actually think you are sitting and skyping or on the Internet checking the rules of the cash assistance system in Denmark. It's possible some people are doing it. I don't think that's what happens to the vast majority of people. If you're in that tent camp, I think you're carried by one interest before something else, and that's to be safe. And that, of course, is the driving force that applies to all parents on this entire globe: that you want your children to grow up properly. So no matter how many nuances I think it is essential to have in the debate, I also think it is important to have as a starting point that there is a reason why people are fleeing. There we have some human obligations. Our task is politically to ensure that things can also work in Denmark. That is why we are calling for some austerity in the area of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141017	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141024	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141025	Does the Minister share the view that the Government has done what it can within the conventions in connection with the government's proposed adjustments to the length of residence permits for certain refugees and their access to family reunification?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141040	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141042	Here I have to sign up to the questioner and say that this is not a rhetorical question, but a question which, of course, I think is entirely relevant, which is why I also answer both more comprehensively and longer-lastingly than the previous question. So now there are three Left politicians who have been praised, and then you are also more about collectively resisting the pressure that might result from inside the party. After all, the government's proposals, which we are discussing here, cut off the possibility of family reunification before a temporary residence permit may be extended after 1 year. This restriction shall apply unless Denmark's international obligations require authorisation for family reunification. In this respect, the rules can be said to have been tightened as much as is possible within the conventions. That is certainly the assessment of the Ministry of Justice, and that is what we are laying the foundations for our legislative proposal. In the government, we have it, you might say, a political approach, that we think that the 1-year limitation is reasonable and reasonable, and that hits the balance that we want to have in the area of asylum. As can be seen from the draft law submitted for consultation, the Ministry of Justice considers that the short stay of the alien in this country and the fact that the residence permit has only been granted for one year will be taken with considerable weight in assessing whether the person concerned will be entitled to family reunification under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, it may be concluded that this is a system which does not permanently restrict access to family reunification, but merely postpones it in the light of the alien's special temporary right of residence. As the draft also shows, there may be special situations where family unity is more important. This applies, for example, if the person in Denmark has taken care of a disabled spouse in the country of origin before leaving Denmark or if the resident has seriously ill minor children in the country of origin. In such cases, rejection of family reunification may be particularly intrusive even within the first year. I must also say that the Ministry of Justice has not determined whether a longer period than 12 months will be in line with Denmark's international obligations. That is probably the last thing the questioner is interested in in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141256	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141257	Yeah, it took a while for the Attorney General to come up with the answer. And now that I am asking, it is because there has been a total confusion in this area, and perhaps it can also explain why the area of foreigners has completely failed the government and it is sailing. Because if you look at what has been said by members of the government in recent times, it is the case that Karen Hækkerup, when she was Minister of Justice, on 9 October to the question of whether we could tighten up more in the area of family reunification, said, and this is a quote: yes, you can. Different countries have developed in different ways. And then she said, "But the government has decided to, it's translated by me that this is right and fair." That is what the Minister is saying now, at least the last, namely that this is right and proper. But she says, yes, you can tighten up. Then it is the case that the Prime Minister saw on October 22, just about. Two weeks later, she is asked the same question, and she does so in connection with the fact that 3 000 additional asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark in September. She then says: we have done what we can within the conventions. This is what we can do if, at the same time, we are to comply with the rules and conventions that Denmark must comply with. So it's a clear no; you can't tighten up any more. Then the current Minister of Justice joins, and then she says to Berlingske: the Ministry of Justice has not determined whether a longer period than the 12 months will be in line with international obligations. So maybe it's one of those. So first we get a yes, we can tighten up more, then we get a no, we can't, and then it turns into a maybe. And yesterday the Prime Minister then said: there are international rules in this area, and we have tried to stay within them. That is why we have put forward a tightening up which we believe to be within the rules and which, moreover, we believe to be fair and acceptable. I am not going to comment on whether or not we can go further. So now you don't want to comment at all. First, you say, yes, you can tighten more. Then you say, no, you can't. Then you say, "Maybe." And now we have come to the conclusion that we are not going to speak at all today. In other words, if it is not a sign (the President:
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141518	This is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141521	Somehow it must be nice to be Mrs Inger Støjberg, because you can just stand up and say, 'It's sailing!' You can either smile or look angry to varying degrees, while at the same time saying: " It's sailing! ' Somehow it is actually a little funny, but it must be very easy to conduct your political activities in that way. It wasn't because I needed a long time before I got to the answer. That's because there are several elements to this Convention issue. When I was just dwelling on family reunification, it's because it's also relevant. In other words, when we consider that, as a rule, family reunification cannot be achieved during a temporary stay during the first year, there are some exceptions there, for example in the case of disabled children. Moreover, I fully agree with what the questioner concludes with, that is to say, the words of the Prime Minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141616	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141617	In other words, if I may be so free, I simply do not understand the Minister's answer. And it may then be because it was a non-answer or an answer completely without content. I'm asking if you can tighten up more or not. There should be no doubt whatsoever that we in the Left want tightening up in this area, and we are doing so because, overall, the government has relaxed 31 times. Then I am well aware that it is not all about asylum, but some of it is about asylum, because it is also about the area of family reunification. And then I think it's kind of easy for a government member to just knock out his arms and say, well, we can't really answer that. This is actually about whether we can make Danish society work together in the future too, and whether we can carry out the integration task that the government has created.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141659	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141700	But did Mrs Inger Støjberg remember to listen to my first reply, which was in fact incredibly long and very, very comprehensive? I do not know, but there are at least two questions of the convention: whether it is possible to say as a country that family reunification can only take place after one year as a starting point. And there is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that as much as is possible within the Convention has probably been tightened up. That is one question. And then there's the second question. Now we are working on a temporary stay of 12 months, and is it within the conventions or not? And there I actually said it very concretely and very directly and thus replied very directly and specifically to the question that it was not assessed whether a longer period than 12 months would be in accordance with Denmark's international rules. So I have given a very specific answer to the question. And I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141756	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141757	Well, in that case, the Minister of Justice is avoiding his own prime minister. For the Prime Minister said on 22 October, and I quote: this is a literal quote: we have done what we can within the conventions. And then she goes on to say: that is what we can do if we are to comply with the rules and conventions that Denmark must comply with. It's a clear bell: no, it can't be tightened anymore. But apparently there can still be. And then I just think it would suit the government to say it honestly as it is, instead of first saying one thing and then the other and now not even wanting to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141830	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141831	Well, you can't say I won't answer when I stand and answer. Well, it's such a weird Cuckoo and Ollie discussion. It is said that the Minister will not answer. And I say, yes, I'm actually answering. You can even read in black and white what I have said, and I will be happy to repeat it again. The Ministry of Justice's assessment is that when it comes to what concerns family reunification, the rules are probably tightened as much as is possible within the conventions. When it concerns the temporary stay of 12 months, the Ministry of Justice has not determined whether or not a longer period will be within the scope of the Convention. That is the answer to the question here. And, of course, I am not avoiding the Prime Minister of the country, either at this point or at any other.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105141914	The question is closed. Then I have to say that if the Minister has planned other meetings, the Minister is now exempt. There is one question left for the Minister, but it will be deleted if the Minister moves on. Minister of Justice, I think we'll agree to continue next Wednesday. ) We do so, but with regard to the continuation here, I will probably have to insist, in relation to the great interest that has been given to the Minister for Justice, on the rules that are known about how many questions there may be room for in a normal Question Time for a single minister. But we're gonna take this together. And we thank the Minister for Justice, who is then freed for other work. Then we go to the next question, and it is to the Minister for Education and Research by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142024	Thank you. My question is: what will the Minister do to ensure that during their education all primary school teachers learn to manage a class, so that noise and anxiety for the future will be a minor problem in the Danish primary school, as is also the intention of the reform of the primary school from 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142048	The Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142052	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. It is clear that row and class management, as the questioner also makes clear, play a key role in the reform of primary schools. Both are of great importance. We know that with elementary school students. This is very important for learners' learning outcomes, and it is also supported by teacher training, which was recently reformed with the support of a wide range of parties, including the Danish People's Party. The reform of teacher training focuses on class management in order to ensure that all teachers can carry out teaching with a focus on both the class and the individual student. Teachers must be able to create the structure and clarity of teaching. This is what is shown on the one hand in order to prevent anxiety and, on the other, in the interests of pupils included, who may also need a more firm framework. First, therefore, the competence objectives for the basic competence of teachers contain specific knowledge and skills objectives concerning class management. Secondly, the future teachers must be able to and I just list the four things: use a wide repertoire of teaching methods and relevant learning tools, differentiate teaching, evaluate learners' learning outcomes in order to constantly improve teaching and choose relevant special educational and inclusive initiatives. This is part of the basic skills which all teachers must have and which were strengthened precisely by the reform of teacher training. Thirdly, class management also forms an autonomous area with its own knowledge and skills objectives in the competence objectives of teacher training internship, and perhaps there are some I do not know that it would be easier if all teaching took place in the classroom and the pupils only said something when they were asked, but fortunately that is not the case. So, of course, there should be no disturbing noise and unrest among the students, but sound in a learning room can also be an expression of • and I am sure that we agree with committed learners and intense work processes, of course within reasonable limits. So I would like to conclude by stressing that I do not see class management as such a range of behavioural and disciplined techniques. For me, class management is about education, about democratic management, about student involvement and also about the critical dialogue that is also taking place in primary school, and above all about how the class is led as a community where all pupils are given the opportunity to participate and learn in a safe and meaningful environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142339	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142341	Thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister shares the same concern that I have, i.e. that noise and unrest can destroy primary school education. I think most people agree with that today. And that is why I was very surprised when I recently became acquainted with two disturbing matters concerning teacher training. The first is that class management, although it is focused on it, is not a mandatory subject for everyone. It is only an optional subject of less gravity and that, although the reality of today's primary school tells us to put a lot of emphasis on that subject, so that students can get some professional benefit from going to school at all. The second obvious problem is that, according to people attending the seminar today, the thinking of calm and order is very fixed. When you talk about methods of keeping order in the classes, it is almost permissible to think or write tasks in the official right way, other things can give a bad character. And official thinking in the area of discipline does not like the word discipline at all, and certainly not about punishment and negative sanctions. It is considered possible to solve the problem of unrest and noise by providing exciting and vibrant education, and only positive sanctions must be imposed. As you know, this is one branch of research, but it is the one that is popular in the Ministry of Education and in the country's teacher training programmes. But there are also several research approaches, including one that says that it is necessary to be prepared to also use negative sanctions such as reviling or expulsion from the hour; and it is probably a good idea that tomorrow's teachers should be made aware of both directions and ways of thinking so that they are as ready as possible to put order in their own classes. I would therefore like to hear what the Minister will do to make the class management subject compulsory for all future primary school teachers and what she will do to make the thinking on the country's teacher education in this area more open and diverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142550	As I said here before, class management is an autonomous area with its own knowledge and skills objectives within the competence objectives of teacher training's internship. So it's actually everyone who gets these powers in. In addition, competence development in class management is one of the very high priority policy areas in relation to the training of teachers; it is also part of the local authority agreements for 2014. In relation to the methods used by teachers, I would just like to highlight the recent recommendations of the Ministry of Education's expert group, which are not officials, but experts in this area, among others. researchers who say that it is a clear framework, high professional requirements that create calm in the class, and that the prerequisite for that to happen is that teachers also provide continuous feedback on the students' work, on their ability to meet the goals, of course, and that the rules and routines of the class are very clear from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142704	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142706	I am well aware that there are competence objectives in teacher training in this area, but this is not the same as the fact that time, curriculum and subjects have been set aside for it to actually be implemented. And I think the minister should consider not doing so. In the second area, as regards the content of the subject, I am also well aware that there is an expert group set up by the Ministry of Education and which will make some recommendations, but the problem is precisely that it only looks at the matter on one side. And there it must surely be in the interests of the Minister that we should be open to all the weighty research which is in this area, that is to say to those who say that we can use more than positive sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142756	I mean, for me, the methods used by teachers in primary school to enforce order, among other things. on how the school management acts and, of course, in relation to the regulations of the primary school. Can the teacher ensure a learning room with the students with interesting teaching that makes them want to learn? It is an important tool. Can they ensure clear structures in teaching? This is what the Order ensures: the promotion of good order in primary and lower secondary schools, by the fact that the teacher and, above all, the school management already have, precisely in the form of the Order, more robust sanctions against pupils who destroy learning for the others. I think it is satisfactory as it exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142844	Last round for Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142847	But there I just want to make the input from the world of reality that those who go on teacher training say that it is simply not the case; they do not get their toolbox filled up with the various things that you can and should actually do. It is a closed environment where only one particular research direction is popular and everything else makes people unpopular. I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not think it is important for teachers to have access to all research in this area, so that they are as skilled as possible in creating order and creating a proper learning environment in primary school once they have finished their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142924	Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105142926	I certainly have no ambition about that, and I'm sure no one has to keep research secret. That is one of the most important things in research, in general, but I am also sure that it is available to the teachers and the leaders who want access to the various things. We have those tools. There are tools in the toolbox for both school management and teachers, also in relation to more robust sanctions, which is what I hear the questioner is asking for. There are all sorts of possibilities if there are students who seriously destroy the teaching; they can be excluded for a period of time they can be transferred. There are the sanctions that I believe should be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143012	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. The next question is to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Morten Marinus, who is wearing a new suit today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143020	Sir. Morten Marinus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143027	Does the Minister consider that Denmark's Radio is financially responsible when the closure of the Entertainment Orchestra will cost more than 50 million? kr., as MetroXpress has uncovered it in an article of October 27 this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143048	Thank you. As a result of the 2015-2018 Media Agreement, Denmark's Radio has drawn up a long-term economic plan. As part of that plan, Denmark's Radio is shutting down the Entertainment Orchestra. It is true, as the author refers to, that in this context there are one-off expenditures in the order of 55 million. kr., and in the long term there is a saving every year of 30 million. kr. That is correct, and I am not surprised. When you have to put an end to a business, it always costs some money in the payment of pensions, wages and things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143129	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143130	It is interesting at all that the Danish Radio closes the Entertainment Orchestra, because it is part of their obligation in the current public service contract. I am certainly surprised that Denmark's Radio can just report that they want to close something that is in a contract during the period it is about. And then the new contract hasn't even been made yet. I think you tie the politicians a little on their hands and feet with such a statement. I would like to ask what the Minister's position is on the fact that the overall savings plan for Denmark's Radio is actually overfinanced by 56 million. kr., that is, more than we as politicians demanded in the media agreement this summer. After all, it is an over-saving which could actually have helped to save the entertainment orchestra and could thus have secured its continued existence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143223	Thank you. The fact is that the media agreement we have made with eight parties in the Danish Parliament also includes a large number of demands for Denmark's Radio. In addition to the fact that we have reduced their revenue by approx. 75 million kr. By abolishing the business licence, we have also raised a number of requests. I am just mentioning some of them: strengthening the regional coverage of Denmark's Radio to reflect the diversity of the various parts of the country, including in the cultural field; the regional units must be freed from making savings; and in addition, Denmark's Radio must strengthen its efforts towards young people with innovative content on the Internet and on television within a wide range of programmes, etc. It is clear that this will have consequences for Denmark's Radio. There are also accessibility requirements that Denmark's Radio must meet to a greater extent than they do today. And that is why Denmark's Radio must be given the opportunity to create an economic space to implement the initiatives that we, as politicians, have demanded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143323	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143324	I am fully aware that we have made a media agreement where we have also made some new demands on Denmark's Radio. I am also fully aware that Denmark's Radio must save money. It was, of course, a precondition from the government, when we entered into the first negotiations on the agreement, that the business licence should be cut away and that Denmark's Radio should therefore also make savings. I am just wondering why Denmark's Radio can make savings in areas where they actually have a commitment under the current public service contract, without first asking the Ministry or the media community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143400	Well Denmark's Radio must take that responsibility, because they must have as efficient an economic operation as possible. That is why they must prepare for the changes to be made per year. January 1st 2015, so it works on the full-year plan. It's one of the hard things when we do these kinds of exercises, that we have to reprioritize and make it work from the start. So I think it is responsible for Denmark's Radio to point out how they intend to save that money. Then we come to the contract afterwards; it has to be drawn up here in November. That's where we negotiate the contract.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143436	We have an enquirer, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143440	We have, and now we have talked about the lovely entertainment orchestra. I must admit that, like my colleague, I am very surprised at how stubbornly the Minister continues to maintain the Danish Radio's decision and defend it. My good colleague, sir. Morten Marinus, has just asked about the fact that Denmark's Radio actually saves more than they should, and that it will cost a great deal to get rid of the orchestra. The Minister then says that it should be seen in the context of a long-term economic plan. It is true that this is a long-term economic plan. But what about a long-term cultural Danish Radio has an obligation, by virtue of the license, to also initiate and consider the cultural. So doesn't Denmark's Radio have a long-term cultural obligation to maintain an orchestra such as the Entertainment Orchestra, which is part of the ensembles? Well, we also have the Big Band. Will this mean that in the next round we will see Denmark's Radio saving the Big Band in a year or two because it is part of a long-term economic plan? So the Minister will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143608	That's definitely my impression... no, I'm gonna start somewhere else... the questioner wonders that I'm defending Denmark's Radio. It was the expression that was used. I mean, I'm answering the questions asked by the members of the Folketing. It is not to defend Denmark's Radio, it is to answer the questions I get as well and soberly as I can. Around the long-term cultural policy Denmark's Radio has also announced that they will strengthen the musical life in Denmark's Radio. There they have indicated that they will remodel the entire live musical image, as they call it, and this means that the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra is strengthened economically and artistically and also plays the Vienna classic repertoire. Denmark's Radio Big Band expands playtime, repertoire and tour activities and performs several musical and popular musical tasks with a focus on family and young people. The girl choir gets more resources and increases the dissemination of the Danish song and musical cultural heritage, also with special focus on family, children and young people. Synergy between the ensembles and Danish Radio's channels is strengthened in connection with live events and programs. The ensemble's musicians are part of flexible constellations and increase their concert activities, also across the country, and the district orchestras are invited to participate in an increased collaboration, among other things. on Danish Radio's live events in the country. These are all the wishes that have been formulated from the political point of view, not in concrete terms, but, for example, from the political point of view. strengthening the Danish song, and this is also happening here. It is really part of the media settlement, and Denmark's Radio also demonstrates that they want to live up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143738	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, half a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143739	We have not asked from the political level that the Entertainment Orchestra should be abolished. The Minister himself mentions that some of this must be added to the district orchestras. The Minister is well aware that it is going to cost money. After all, they go from the current savings. The Minister is also aware that it is going to cost money, that you have to upgrade the Symphony Orchestra, because you cannot just play what they can do today in a very short space of time. So will the Minister not stop defending Denmark's Radio's right to shut down an orchestra such as the Entertainment Orchestra and instead process Denmark's Radio so that we can preserve it as a permanent part of the ensembles? 'Cause otherwise we're just gonna run the Big Band next time. After all, the minister has given carte blanche to that. So wouldn't the Minister please answer whether it makes sense for us now to spend money on Denmark's Radio putting everything that the orchestra can do today to the district orchestras because it costs extra money? Is it long-term, economic and cultural?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143849	I am happy to answer the questions and it is not to defend anything, it is to give an answer to that, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen asks. The point I would like to make is that, among other things, we are going to have to do something about it. has said in the media agreement that Denmark's Radio must be at a percentage level of 40 in terms of the use of Danish tunes and songs. That's what we need to get money for. At the same time, we have said that we want Denmark's Radio to be in the country and to convey the culture that is in the country. This is among other things. The district orchestras. It costs money, it is absolutely right. Therefore, Denmark's Radio has prioritised in such a way that they have saved more money than the business licence gives; because they must prioritize differently and increase funds in some places, they must remove funds from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143944	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, final.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105143947	Two weeks ago, the Minister replied to questions in this Chamber from two other Members of Parliament. She said that she considered it due care that the Danish Radio is shutting down the Entertainment Orchestra. I would now think that it would be timely for the Minister to go home and reconsider whether we should not continue to adhere to the public service contract's requirement that the Entertainment Orchestra should also be part of the DR's public service contract. Maybe you don't know what you're talking about. DR's new cultural director, Tine Smedegaard Andersen, has certainly said that she has not tried to be at a concert with the Entertainment Orchestra. Whether or not the Minister is the same, I do not know. I bought a CD, a DVD with the Entertainment Orchestra and Tina Dichow, which I will present to the Minister. And then I'm gonna go home and hope that the minister goes home and wonders if she can't also show some due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144041	I have at some point got a question as to why Denmark's Radio has decided on, for example. The entertainment orchestra and other economic conditions this autumn. Why do they not wait until 1 January to do so once the contract has been negotiated? I have called that due diligence, that is to say to prepare for one or the other or the third or the fourth or the fifth way to provide room for manoeuvre to solve the tasks that we have demanded in the media agreement for Denmark's Radio to solve. At the same time, DR strengthens the music, as we have also asked them to do. You are doing this in a different way than the questioner would like, but I do not think we can discuss that here. It is a matter for Denmark's Radio itself to decide how to handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144130	Thank you both to the questioner and to the Minister. I shall interrupt the sitting for five minutes so that we have a questioner or minister present. There should be a good chance we can do this in five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144500	The sitting is resumed. The questioner, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has now arrived and I thank the Minister for his constant presence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144501	Here you go, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144519	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: Does the Minister really think that the government gives priority to targeted initiatives to increase growth and settlement in the small islands as well as Ærø, Læsø and Samsø enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144533	I can confirm that I have been sitting in the Chamber for the last half hour waiting to reply, so it was nice that Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen entered the hall now. The short answer is yes. In fact, I believe that the government has taken a large number of initiatives to create growth and settlement in the small islands as well as Ærø, Læsø and Samsø. Now that I have the opportunity, I would like to elaborate on it. Firstly, we have implemented a number of initiatives that benefit the 27 small islands and islands, and we have done so, recognising that there are some particular challenges for our islands. Already in 2012, we entered into an agreement with Enhedslisten on an adjustment of the compensation system, which meant that we moved 400 million. kr. from the major cities to the outermost regions. In addition, with effect from this year, we have paid 15 million. kr. extra in section 20-grants to municipalities with small islands. For those who do not know section 20, I can tell you that this is about ferry subsidies and a grant to a ferry secretariat. And this means that in 2014 with the § 20 grant totals 106 million. kr. to municipalities with smaller islands. In addition, Section 21 of the compensatory reform provides special island support to the municipalities of Ærø, Læsø and Samsø, and in 2014 it amounted to 78.7 million. kr. So I really believe that, with the recent adjustments, unlike the previous government, we have given a significant boost to the countryside and the outermost regions, and not least to the small islands. It is in fact the government's view that we have now reached a very reasonable level of support for smaller island islands. In addition, I should like to point out that we have given an important hand in helping businesses in the small islands, because in the latest growth package it was agreed that 50 million will be allocated in 2015. kr. and from 2016 125 million kr. annual to a permanent reduction in the ferry charges for services to and from the small islands as well as Ærø, Læsø, Fanø and Bornholm. And here there is therefore a significant initiative to boost business and support business on our small islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144737	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144738	Thank you for your answer. May I just say that in relation to the section 20 grant that has been increased by 15 million. kr., it has been found that they do not go to the small islands at least not so much. They go directly into the coffers of the municipalities concerned. Well, there are 19 municipalities that have small islands under them. So that money doesn't benefit the small islands. In the government's legislative catalogue for next year, the Minister does not have a single targeted initiative that creates growth and settlement in the small islands as well as Ærø, Samsø or Læsø. Despite the challenges experienced on the islands and despite the government's fine ambition for a united Denmark, the Minister does not seem to think that it is relevant and necessary to ensure better framework conditions on the islands with new legislative initiatives in this parliamentary year. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister has an ambition that Denmark should also be an island kingdom in the future. How will the Minister actually ensure this when it is not shown by the legislative catalogue or by other initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144843	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144845	I think it's bypassed, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen's attention that in my own ministerial area next year too, there is the island support pool, which continues to provide development opportunities on our islands, and it is 22 million. kr. Let me also highlight the LAG effort, in which we have agreed on 94 million. kr. next year, and as a starting point, we are in fact giving the islands double the total effort of the local action group, so that there are two portions, and there is solidarity in giving the most money to those who have the greatest challenges. So I think, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has a little overlooked what we have done. So may I not say in relation to the question of § 21 that that money has been given to the municipalities, and I do not know whether Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen is in favour of abolishing municipal autonomy. It is municipalities with small islands that have received the grant, and this can be done, among other things. used to reduce cargo.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144944	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105144947	Well, it doesn't matter how much the minister tries to explain it away. That money has not gone to the islands, as it was intended to do. They have gone into the municipal coffers in the long, by far the majority of the 19 municipalities which have small islands under them, and that is not satisfactory when we adopt the opposite here in the Folketing. Today there are worse conditions for Danes who will settle on an island for the many who will create a daily life in those places. What this is about is creating equality between the islands and the rest of society, but apparently the Minister will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145024	First, I just want to talk about the 15 million. kr. say that they are given as a general subsidy to the municipalities with the smaller islands, and I am in line with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who is, of course, the minister responsible in this area when he considers that the general subsidies are a sensible solution. Despite this rather loud criticism, I have not heard that the Left wants to put local self-government out of effect, but I would like to hear about the Left's wishes. So may I not say, when we talk about framework conditions, that we have listened and been around all the islands....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Flemming Damgaard Larsen has been really, really important with the freight and the equalisation of business on the islands. After all, we have negotiated a new LAG solution in which we pay particular attention to the small islands, but Langeland, Ærø and Læsø have also joined a joint LAG, so they have also received money. We have the local action groups, we have island support from the rural pool. There are lots of initiatives that support it. We have made a compensatory reform and there is the special subsidy for disadvantaged municipalities. So, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has to go home and study the Finance Act one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145126	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145129	I would just like to mention three examples where there has been no equality and where the government has to do something actively. It's the loan options. It is much harder to get a loan if you live on an island and have to buy a house or expand your business. It is an inflexible ferry service with expensive tariffs, and it is unstable mobile and broadband coverage. If only in these three areas we could have equality with the rest of Denmark, we would have come very, very far, and that is just what I am appealing for the government and the minister to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145203	Then it is the Minister for the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145206	May I not say that, when we arrived in 2011, we did, in fact, make an agreement quite quickly about what is called the 800 MHz auction, because the 207 worst covered postal numbers in Denmark. During 2015, that agreement will fall into place so that we get at least 10 megabits, and here a number of our islands are also included. I told you, we're gonna get back to work. This is contrary to what the previous government did. It didn't do anything about it. In addition, we have taken 22 concrete initiatives in the field of broadband, so I really think that you are correcting for blacksmiths, and I need to see what the Left would like to do, especially when they want zero growth. Instead of criticizing it, it could be constructive to enter into a good dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145251	The Minister must also stay within the limits of Question Time. Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs and again by Flemming Damgaard Larsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145306	Thank you for that, President. The question is: why does the Minister not think that we are achieving better results from the Committee on the Religion, which should work for a coherent regulation of religions other than the church of the people, by securing permanent seats in the committee for representatives of these religions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145325	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145327	Thank you very much for the question. In fact, I believe that Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen knows the answer, because a similar question has been asked in general, but I would like to repeat it. Because it's always really good to come down and unfold your policy and get some specific things turned around. As you know, this is the way it is, just like Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen also says that the government has set up a law-preparing community committee to draw up proposals for a coherent regulation of the relationship of religious communities, which can both contribute to greater transparency, but also help to strengthen and clarify the legal status of faith societies. The committee must also look at the rules for the approval of religions and how more supervision of the conditions of religions can be exercised. In addition, the committee must also look at how an approval can be revoked if a religion ceases to comply with the requirements which were just a prerequisite for its approval. It is a very large and comprehensive task facing the committee and, of course, it also makes demands on the members of the committee. The government has therefore decided that the Legislative Committee should consist of external actors who do not represent a particular religion or religion, but who are experts in state law, legal history, religious science and theology. I would, of course, like to put an end to the misunderstanding that communities of faith will not be involved in the work of the committee. The Committee may, as is also apparent from the terms of reference, set up sub-working groups and involve external expertise, and the Committee may hold meetings with the authorities and organisations concerned which are not represented in the Committee. So, even if representatives from, for example, Christian free churches, Hindu congregations or Muslim religions do not sit directly on the committee which is to draw up a proposal for new legislation, then they will be heard. I think this is a sensible way in which we have organised this legislative work and I hope for positive cooperation with the faith communities on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145537	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145539	Thank you for your answer. That sounds all very well, but there is the huge deficiency in the fact that the committee is not obliged to involve or meet with the authorities and organisations concerned which are not represented in the committee, and it is important that the religions concerned have no guarantee that they will be involved in the committee's work or, for that matter, whether they will be involved in the committee's work. At the same time, they also have no influence on the issues raised by the committee and how they are highlighted, even though the individual religion has a crucial knowledge of • I would also call it specialist knowledge where the shoe may print. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in general terms, the Minister also thinks in other contexts that parties who have inside knowledge in an area should sit at the table when the area in question is unveiled.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145632	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145634	That sounds good, says the questioner. Well, that's really good, and maybe it's because it's and it's so good. And I don't think you can just compare the different areas. Nor can it be compared with the committee we set up to look at a new governance structure for the people's church. Somewhere I think that the thing about having people involved where the shoe prints, as the questioner says, is very good, but you should not look at shoes or anything else that looks like it; here you should actually look at some other things where it may not quite make sense for some to be in the committee, but where it makes sense, on the other hand, that they are sitting in some sub-groups and I should only raise one point, because the President has raised up, and then, of course, you should also keep an eye on it. Among other things: We must look at whether regulation should cover all religions or only those religions that want rights, such as tax and VAT exemptions, marriage authorisation, etc. So somewhere I think we have hit it perfectly once we have set up that committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145737	The asker again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145739	Yes, and there we have such a complete disagreement, because it is contrary to ordinary Danish tradition. For those to whom it relates, we also have at the table the binding dialogue, the binding conversation, which will then be when someone is official members of a committee. We don't need all that talk and chatter that can come between meetings; we need them to sit at the table. The incredibly many religions that we have in Denmark and that it is good that we have can easily find three or four representatives who can sit there and cover the faith communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145817	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145820	Well, I don't know if it has anything to do with Danish tradition or not. I think what the questioner is saying is nonsense; I must honestly admit that. Just to indicate an order of magnitude so that we know what we are talking about, I can inform you that today there are more than 100 recognized and approved religions and congregations in Denmark. I am quite sure that it is not Danish tradition to get everyone into a committee and to work with something as important as this. I am sure that the people to be involved will be involved with the expertise that exists; it is in the mandate; it is in black and white. And maybe you should, where you said at the beginning that this sounded good after you read it, also say that it sounds good. 'Cause it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145913	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145915	But that does not change the fact that those to whom it relates have knowledge which is not part of the usual committee work at the meetings of the committee. The committee can deal with issues which are not being taken into account; they can be raised here and now and clarified at a subsequent meeting, etc. etc. In this context, we do not need to have meetings with some people at times outside the series of meetings. We need to get them to the table. After all, these more than 100 religions are organized in some groups, in some stakeholder organizations, and all you can ask is: Will each of you put one in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145956	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105145958	The memory can really be very, very short; there is no doubt about that. For the National Church Committee that we set up included expertise and knowledge, in order to qualify that work, and it is quite the same thing that happens this time. Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen can take it completely calmly, we have set up a fantastic committee to look at some very, very important things, among others. that which I mentioned with the regulation, which includes all other religions. We have made a commission, which I can hear we agree on, and I am pleased about that. That sounds good, and it is And I am sure that you also have to include all the expertise that you think you need in the further work. Be comfortable with it; for I am comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150043	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150053	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150057	Thank you for that, President. The question is: how does the Minister estimate that a new tax of 180%? on used taxis, and thus a less regular replacement, is it to be assumed that worn-out taxis for new and safer versions will affect road safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150117	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the Danish taxi park today has a high level of road safety, and when new taxis are to be bought in the future there must of course be an ongoing obligation to comply with the applicable safety requirements for cars. Fortunately, the safety requirements for new cars have generally become very high. Perhaps it should also be pointed out here that taxis should appear once a year, which helps to ensure that taxis meet the safety requirements that are being examined in this context. I have to say that I have no reason to believe that the abolition of the freeway system will have any significant impact on road safety, even if it means that it does not mean that it can be rejected; one might well take the view that it will probably mean that the individual taxi will drive a few years more as a taxi than it would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150229	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150233	Now the minister says that they probably If you ask the industry, it is quite different scenarios that are set up in relation to the economy of taxi drivers, which makes it estimated that many of these cars will be allowed to drive both 5, 8 and 10 years on the roads. After all, it is a service industry and I do not know if the Minister has an intention with this law that we as customers in taxis should drive around in some worn-out vehicles, but it is also a question of having a fleet that is in a reasonable condition. There are also some environmental requirements we make for taxis. How will we actually ensure that these environmental requirements are complied with if we suddenly have a fleet of vehicles which, unlike today, has an average age of 11⁄2 years, is 7-8 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150322	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150325	How will we ensure that they meet the requirements? If taxis comply with environmental and safety requirements, they will be guaranteed once a year, when taxis should appear, which, for good reasons, goes beyond the normal private vehicle fleet of this kind, because they drive much more and that it is precisely a profession that lives on the need for a high level of safety and safety for passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150356	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150358	Now I have deliberately not asked for any revenue from this, because it belongs to the tax minister, so I have to ask that question to the colleague of the Minister for Transport. However, this must give rise to some reservations, because the Minister does not deny to me that there may be a risk that the fleet will be 7-8 years old, and so everything else must also affect the planned revenue included in the growth package. But still away: today there are some demands on the environment, and much of that comes from the EU too, so how will the Minister ensure that those demands are constantly complied with? It is not only a matter of sight, it also has something to do with the fact that when you acquire new vehicles, you suddenly get a mixed vehicle fleet where some meet environmental requirements and others, if necessary, will not meet newer and stricter environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150445	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150447	It is true that the requirements that exist are primarily for new cars, and that makes very good sense. Because if we introduced new requirements, extraordinary environmental requirements, to the existing fleet, and this applies, of course, whether it is the taxi industry or whether it is all the private cars that are in the driveways, car ports and garages of the Danes, people would suddenly be charged a quite, quite heavy bill. This is historically why we in the Danish Parliament have said that when new environmental requirements are introduced, they are introduced by new purchases and in this way replaced the fleet. The same has happened with ABS brakes, with catalytic converters and everything else that has moved gradually, but things are moving a little slowly, because it has to go in with the new cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150533	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150536	In conclusion, however, I note that the Minister does not believe that this will have any safety consequences, that is to say, in relation to the fact that we now have vehicles which are 11⁄2-2 years old, perhaps, and probably according to the industry itself, we will have vehicles which are up to 10 years old. The Minister does not think that this will have safety implications, nor will it have environmental consequences if I have understood the Minister's reply correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150601	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150603	It can be understood that there are sights once a year, but then it is the sights, the sights and the authorities behind it, which must ensure that the sights are also maintained and checked out. But this issue is an element that is something that the Danish People's Party has helped to conclude a broad political agreement on, and if the Danish People's Party disagrees with that agreement, one could ask oneself the small question: Why the hell was it that the Danish People's Party concluded an agreement where this was one of the elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150643	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is for the Minister of Transport and is also by Kim Christiansen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150653	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the proposal to harmonise tax in the tax field, in line with the Government's draft growth plan 2014, was based initially on a condition that taxi law should be revised first with a view to creating equal competition and growth opportunities, and can the Minister therefore agree that we should wait for a law that changes the taxi's existing tax and free-way arrangements until common ground has been created for a framework of equal and fair competition and growth opportunities in the taxi industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150728	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150730	Thank you for the question. I know that there is often a request for clear answers, and I can reply quite clearly and very briefly. The answer is no. Tax harmonization is a prerequisite for reform, otherwise it would not be possible to achieve equality between the different types of authorisation in the taxi law, which was, after all, what the government proposed in its proposal for the growth plan. But, as you know, the Danish People's Party did not want to support this. The reverse, which is to be asked here, does not apply. In other words, tax reform is not a prerequisite for implementing the current changes in taxation. That is probably why there was a very broad agreement to be able to reach at least this far here. When the government played out with a proposal for a major reform, it was because we had a desire for better competition and a more fair competition and I could understand that one also had an interest in the taxi industry, both among drivers and hauliers and others who work with public service traffic. You can be annoyed that you did not succeed in getting through with it. But things are in contrast to the way the question suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150850	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150851	We have now introduced reverse Question Time, because the Minister's final reply was, in fact, a question to me asking. And I can answer that: that is how it is when you make a settlement. However, this does not prevent a somewhat critical attitude to the consequences of such new depreciation rules. So, having answered that, I would like to say: I do not know why the Minister thinks that there was a broad desire in the industry to liberalise the taxi industry. It is true that there is a desire for a level playing field, but it is also appropriate to bear in mind that today there are four different types of authorisation, and I know that one of the ideas contained in the legislation which the Danish People's Party fortunately blocked was to operate with a universal licence. But that would then require harmonization of the types of taxes. This is not done simply by charging the taxi drivers 180 per cent when changing their vehicles. After all, these are some other depreciation rules for the three other types of permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105150958	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151000	That was not, I think, a fair representation of the proposal that was on the table in the negotiations. After all, it was not full liberalisation, as we know it from Sweden and elsewhere. There was no majority in favour of this, and now we are in the situation that, in order to finance a growth plan that should focus on creating growth and jobs here in Denmark, what we needed and need, yes, the parties, including the Danish People's Party, agreed that this was one of the financing elements. You can never find funding elements without it being felt as well. I shall be the first to acknowledge this, so I must stand by the goal and ensure that works in the best possible way, just as I would call on the other parties who are involved in the conciliation to distribute the money, also to stand by the targets for the places we then found the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151048	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151049	I do not believe that there was any funding in the part dealing with liberalisation that the Danish People's Party got out of the agreement. It is about comparing some permits, and it is also about liberalisation, if I am going to list it up to the Minister's remembrance. The minister should know the agreement, or at least the proposal, which the Minister himself presented to the conciliation circle. Then it can be said that it was not full liberalisation, but that it was, if you give masters of crafts and so on. the possibility of driving a taxi on weekends, and if they do not otherwise have any carpentry or masonry to do, then I would say that it is very close to full liberalisation. So I would call that full liberalisation, but of course it is a question of interpretation. But I would just like to ask... second Vice-President There is unfortunately a slight overrun of speaking time. I'm sorry. )
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151145	I didn't get the question. Then I guess I can just spend my time saying that the purpose for me to look at trying to change this is that a lot of taxis have disappeared from the map, and what can be called taxi-free zones has arisen in many places, and at the same time we have problems with pirate taxis, mainly in the larger cities, and at the same time we have a lot of pressure on the existing profession, in relation to how things can run around for employees, and that it can be difficult to get trucker permits and something like that. So I think there is a need to look at it and that is why we tried to play out with a proposal that was then not agreed on. It was agreed on the financing side, and that is something that we have made a political agreement on in broad terms between the two parties and several others.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151229	Thank you. It's sir. Kim Christiansen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151233	I'll try to stay within the time frame. Now the Minister mentions that there has been a decrease in the number of taxis, but can the Minister not confirm that if the four permits are combined, the number of wagons is fairly constant? But it is true that a number of taxis have disappeared, among others. Because of the fact that there are people driving around with bus licences in small yellow-card cars designed for four people, who are then known as buses and who are subject to other tax rules. Is it not true that the sum of vehicles operating public service traffic or taxi within the four permits is actually fairly constant?
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151310	Thank you. The Minister for the last reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151312	Yeah, it's very possible. I do not know the exact figure for that, but I would very much like to study it and provide a written answer to the Danish Parliament on it, if I have a question, so I would urge the questioner to ask it. The fact is that we are now in a situation where a major reform did not materialise, but that part of the funding for the growth plan, which among other things. The Danish People's Party has been involved in adopting, is downloaded here. We must then stand by that and we must try to do it as best we can, and that is the conditions we have. It is not a party to find the funding, but it was what one could agree on, and that is what both the Danish People's Party, the government and several other parties have agreed to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151356	Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141105151403	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 6 November 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
