ParlaMint-DK_20141212100000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 95 (Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens (Enhanced control in border areas and airports and tightening of fines for illegal entry, residence and work of aliens)). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Legal Affairs Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the year 2013. B 45). The motion for a resolution will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100114	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100138	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100207	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100233	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100302	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100332	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100350	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, adopted by the Committee, or on amendments No. 1-7, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 1-7) for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100453	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212100514	Thank you for this opportunity to discuss an important issue, namely what lies in this motion for a resolution on the drafting of an equal treatment report tabled by the SF. The authors of the proposals will require the government to set up a committee of experts to prepare an analysis of equality within a maximum of two years, which will address questions of equality from all sides. The government is in line with the intention of the resolution that Denmark should be a society with real equal opportunities. We have a good starting point for equal opportunities, among other things. because we have formal free and equal access to publicly funded healthcare and education, we have a high level of professional participation, and we have a long tradition of dealing with socially vulnerable people. But it is not in all cases that formal equal opportunities translate into real equal opportunities for all. From the first day, the government has had as its goal to limit inequality. We want to be measured by reducing poverty and ensuring real equality of opportunity. That is why we have implemented a number of initiatives and set ambitious targets which set the course for further work. We have abolished poverty benefits and the ceiling on child and youth benefits, and both initiatives increase transfers for those with the lowest incomes. We have established an official Danish poverty limit based on a thorough preparatory work in a committee of experts. And this has helped to shift the discussion from whether there is poverty in Denmark to how poverty can be combated. This year we have published the first official report on poverty, which includes: describes the development of economic poverty and analyses the composition of the group. We have strengthened the framework for more people to get an education. Too many people today do not have the professional basis and the motivation to take a youth education. The reform of the Folkeskole must ensure that the skills and motivation for taking an education are in place. And the reform of vocational education and training must help to ensure that pupils are given a higher profile and that more people carry out youth education. We have made reforms of early retirement and flex jobs and the cash assistance system with the aim that more people will be able to become part of the working community, make use of and realise the potential that all people have and give them the opportunity to live the life they want. Job opportunities are important for the social balance, but equal opportunities are also relevant in other policy areas that do not directly concern employment. Social sustainability is one of the three legs of our sustainability strategy, which means that the social aspect is always considered when relevant. For example, we have launched an ambitious health initiative, and the initiative includes a number of initiatives which include: contribute to reducing inequalities in health. There is a need to work further to strengthen the social balance and create equal opportunities in Denmark, which is why the government has set a number of goals for social development. The motion for a resolution states that GDP cannot be used as a measure of how well a society is. The government is in agreement with that. We have a GDP target, but it is complemented by a number of equal objectives. This applies to climate, education and social issues, where we have set a number of concrete social 2020 objectives. The social 2020 objectives must ensure that the aid provided makes a difference and leads to better social conditions for the most vulnerable. This includes, among other things, at least 50%. of the vulnerable children and young people undertake youth education, the number of homeless people is reduced by 25% and the proportion of women with multiple stays in shelters is reduced by at least 30%. We can and must take far better care of vulnerable and vulnerable people not only by spending more money, but quite simply by using them better. The government is following up on the social 2020 targets. A new report on poverty will also be presented in the new year. The new report will include: contain analyses inspired by the speeches and wishes presented during the open discussion hosted by the Minister for Social Affairs in September. There were organizations, think tanks and research institutions, etc. opportunity to contribute with input and ideas. And I can also inform you that data on economic poverty have been made available to researchers and interest groups. In the new year, we can also look forward to the final recommendations of the Carsten Koch Committee, and I look forward to following up on those who are dealing with the non-market unemployed so that even more people can benefit from an active life of education and jobs. As I have already mentioned, the government continues to attach importance to reducing inequality and we will be measured at reducing poverty and ensuring real equality of opportunity. The government is therefore very much in agreement with the intention behind the proposal, and that is why I am left with the feeling that in many ways the resolution kicks in an open door. Where the water divides is so evidently in relation to the method. For the government is already analysing both poverty and income distribution in Denmark on an ongoing and systematic basis, and on this basis we do not consider it appropriate to have committee work of the proposed nature, and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution. But, of course, we are always willing to listen to good ideas for improving the analyses we do systematically every year in the publication which serves as a report on poverty and which we call the family economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101043	There are three brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101048	Equality is really about two things. It's about those who are up at the top and how well they feel on all sorts of parameters, and then it's about those who are down at the bottom and how bad they feel. And we feel that we have no problem with some people running away and getting along very well with their own efforts, but it is a problem if someone does not get the life that they should be able to have in a modern society like the Danish one. The Minister then mentions, in relation to education, that motivation plays a role here. It is professional skills that play a role, and that is motivation. Can the Minister explain how the government views motivation as a factor that matters whether you get down to the lower social strata or the worse social strata?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101140	After all, we have taken a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring that more young people, and especially vulnerable young people, undertake youth training. I think, first of all, that feeling that you have the necessary professional qualifications is an important place to start. That is why we have set ourselves the goal of our primary school reform that it should make it possible for those who have the worst starting point in the future to get out of primary school with sufficient professional qualifications to complete youth education, which should strengthen their motivation for it. But it may also be, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is referring to the question of the reform of the social security system, where we have provided the services in such a way that there is no economic incentive to opt for the labour market and education, because we have extended the so-called youth benefit up to 30 years, and this means that young people who are ready for training are now looking far more for training. That is why, of course, there are different factors, both professional, economic and social, and they must all be in place, and that is why we really think that the initiatives we have taken bear fruit overall, that education can become the way to prevent poverty among the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101254	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101256	It is true that this, among other things, is true. is about economic motivation, and here I may not think the government has done enough. Today, according to the figures of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 330,000 people have only a weak financial incentive to work. When the government's reforms are fully phased in, that figure will have been reduced to 250,000 people. But that is not a very great reduction. Why not reduce it to e.g. Ninety thousand, as Liberal Alliance policy will make it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101329	Thank you for the nice mention of the government's tax reform. We are very proud that we have succeeded in giving priority to tax relief to those who have the least, and thus significantly reducing by well over a third the share which has a weak economic incentive to work. Well, we're glad we've succeeded. And then you can easily have further ambitions. One might ask: Why stop at 90,000? But what I just think should be welcomed is that by far, by far, the vast majority of those who have a weak economic incentive to work actually work. It also tells a story that there are other motivations than just that; it may be the chance that in the long term you can work your way to a place where there is a greater difference between working and supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101413	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101416	The government has previously set up various commissions, for example. a Labour Market Commission and a Welfare Commission, as such, should act independently in order to be able to provide a qualified input to the government's work. The reason why we are now proposing to do this in the area of inequality is, of course, that, as the Minister also mentioned in his review, there are, in fact, many dimensions in this complex. This is not just the issue of poverty, because poverty is a big and visible problem that we must address, but equality is, in fact, about the relationship between the top and bottom and the balance that exists, and we can see that it is an independent problem. It is about social mobility, it is about psychological problems, it is about obesity, it is about the level of education, and it is really also about how many teenage mothers we get in Denmark. That is why we insist on the need for an explanation of inequality, and I would just like to ask something about that, since we can now see what the OECD says in its report I think it came yesterday or the day before yesterday. They say clearly that equality promotes growth, and they even put figures on, they go quite far, they say that a decrease in inequality by 1 percentage point means that, after five years, GDP is 0.8%. higher. Since 1985, inequality in Denmark has increased by 2.5 percentage points, which in reality amounts to 40 billion. kr. in lower GDP. Does the Minister think that Denmark can do without the growth of gross domestic product and we can therefore ignore the fact that we should actually look at the issue of inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101550	I think it is worth taking the right starting point, namely that income differences in Denmark are very small from an international perspective. They have been rising at some point, but they are about unchanged from 2007 to 2012, and I just think it's important that we take that starting point. There are many countries in the world where there really is a difference between top and bottom, but Denmark is one of the countries where the difference is least. That is why I think that what is important, and that is also what I heard in Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's speech here, is to focus on social mobility: in other words, do you have the opportunities to move sufficiently? There is an inequality in health, which I also addressed in my original speech. But these are all things we have on the drawing board, which is why we are, you might say, in a spirit of action. We want to act in relation to all the agendas, and we really think that the systematic follow-up we have on this issue every year provides us with sufficient evidence to take initiatives, as we have done with the health issue, with our social 2020 objectives, with our educational efforts, and therefore the time has come for action. In fact, we think the case is well-lit.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101706	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101708	It may be that the Minister does not think there is such a large difference in income, but if we look at the last 10 years, we can see that the 3F has seen an increase in income of 0.5%, while the Director has experienced an average of 23-24 per cent. in terms of salary increase. I think that is a significant difference, and it is certainly if you are 3Fs and have a relatively low income base. Having said that, I think there is a point where the water is separated. Because I hear that both of us are concerned about the issue of inequality and that the government would like to address it, but where the waters separate is enough in relation to whether it should be independent experts looking at it and making recommendations, and whether they should look at all the parameters, or whether, in some way, one should just look at it randomly when one comes up with a reform, and therefore one does not get the context. And if that is where the waters part, what is so crucial to the government that one is not willing to make independent and perhaps a little more critical eyes look at the way one deals with inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101809	Well, I think, fortunately, we live in a society where there are plenty of independent observers of virtually all social conditions and, as I said in my introduction, we are happy and happy to make available the figures we have to researchers, interest groups and think tanks who are interested in it. But here we are talking about the fact that what is then criticized by the authors of the motion is that every year, at the same time, in the same statement, in the same form, so that we can compare that year by year, we are following up this problem. And that has nothing to do with coincidence: there is a system that goes far beyond the fact that sometimes you choose to set up a commission, which is then set up once, and then you can take the report down from the shelf. Here is a new report every year that you can compare with the report from the previous year. Then I just want to hold on to the fact that you can make your math examples as you like, depending on what you want and what image you want to conjure up, but whatever I think we have to agree that when we look beyond the countries of the world, Denmark is one of the countries with the smallest income difference. There can be no two opinions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101915	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101918	Thank you. I would like to give a little free political assistance to the Minister, who really should have told Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that the OECD statement on inequality is based on economies with significantly greater inequality than the Danish one, and that the growth calculation presented by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to the Minister cannot be transferred to Danish conditions. Having said that, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister considers it a problem that government reforms have increased the Gini coefficient, the Gini coefficient, which plays such a major role in the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212101953	As I just said, income differences in Denmark are about unchanged from 2007 to 2012, and the Gini coefficient is a suitable instrument for comparing countries. But I think that when we work on policy in the way we have done in Denmark and successfully, during a period when we have had five consecutive quarters of increasing employment, that is what this is all about. Then it is the real equality of opportunity that comes from being in a situation where you are what we now call economically poor to get into a situation where you are self-supporting and can get through the income layers. Fortunately, we can see that there are actually a number of things that do, that is, come from having been what we describe as economically poor, to moving up through the levels of income. So there is social mobility in Denmark, not enough, but there is actually social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102050	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102051	And the government has downgraded its growth rate eight quarters in a row. That is not what I am asking the Minister. I ask the Minister whether the Minister considers it a problem that government policy has actually helped to increase the Gini coefficient. It would be nice if the Minister could give a clear answer to that rather than repeating some of the speech sticks that were stated earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102112	I am pleased that the government's policy is covered by the fact that there are approximately unchanged income differences between 2007 and 2012 ~ approximately unchanged. That is why it is not possible to set one's own premise and then ask for it to be confirmed. They are about unchanged, and I would just warn against using a tool suitable for comparing countries to assess a single political proposal independently. It must be an overall picture that is needed, and there is the overall picture of an almost unchanged development from 2007 to 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102150	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102155	I think it is important in such an important debate that we get the facts straight. Perhaps the Minister could begin by explaining what the situation is actually in Denmark and confirming that the OECD study can see that Denmark has been one of the countries with the least income difference for decades and that we are in fact no. 2 of the OECD.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102222	Yes, I can confirm that this is also what the graphs I'm looking at look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102229	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102232	Good. I think that is the best argument for the fact that it is not necessary to ask for a statement of inequality or how it might have been formulated by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. But Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also mentioned in her example that it was a huge problem that there were some 3Fs who had made progress of 0.5%, while others had received much more, and then I would like to ask the Minister whether it is a problem that there are some who exploit their potential, are industrious, capable and able to contest a job and thereby gain a greater income? Is it any problem if it does not mean that some people get less and that no one gets anything worse at all, but that some technical measurement method might show a slight difference? Does the Minister for the Radical Left see a problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102327	The Minister of Government Yes, if it were generally the case that Danish society was increasingly marked by great inequality, then we in the government would also think it was a problem. What we seem to have been the big challenge, and that is why we have created a poverty limit, after all, is to ensure that we reduce poverty. That is what we want to measure. We want it to be the case that if you are in economic poverty, you can move out of it, and we want as few people who end up there as possible. Therefore, it is what has our focus, and not, it can be said, to squeeze the income span together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102409	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102424	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr. Jonas Dahl to bring this debate to the public square in the Parliamentary Chamber. Often, if you listen to what is going on in here, there are complicated technical debates about legislative proposals that may not be easy to understand for the people who are listening. I think this debate is interesting and I think it is important, and I hope that in the coming minutes at least, perhaps hours, we will find some clear ideological differences in what the Left wants, what the Government wants, and what we, as an opposition, want. I understand that the purpose of the equalisation analysis is to illustrate how the development of inequality is going in Denmark, as well as to illustrate the development of equality in areas such as health, housing, wealth, income and education. In addition, the motion for a resolution states that the overall analysis must come up with proposals for further work on the understanding of equality, inequality and its consequences, while at the same time constantly making equality assessments in a more dynamic form, both of a political and of a legal nature. The Left takes the view that we best achieve equality if the individual, the individual, the individual seizes the opportunities that they are given, and so they are not so few here in Denmark. We can actually pride ourselves on having one of the most equal societies in the world. We are in fourth place at the moment if you ask international institutes and see international studies. Social mobility is good and Danish society is a pioneering country all over the world. We can really be proud of that. More young people than ever before take youth education, the number of applicants sets a record year by year, and for us equality is therefore about equal access and ensuring that Danes, both those who come from resourceful families, but also from resourceless families, accept and take advantage of the fantastic opportunities that the welfare society we have gives to the individual. We have an excellent safety net that other countries often envy. In relation to the economic differences mentioned by the proposers, it is true that in Denmark there are differences in incomes. This is also the case in other countries, and I think this is inevitable when we work with societies where economic growth and the market economy are the essential prerequisite for prosperity. For a very large number of Danes, taking a job instead of choosing a transfer income cannot pay off. That's a problem. It is also an equal and economic problem. The benefit of stopping receiving public assistance is simply too small in relation to taking a collective job at one of the lowest wage rates. It simply does not pay to work financially. Instead of setting up a commission on inequality and equality, perhaps SF should put forward a proposal that ensured that all people who went to work also gained an economic benefit from it instead of choosing a transfer income. That is why, in its draft budget, the Left has proposed a reduction in taxes at the bottom so that more people will have the opportunity to lift themselves out of a life of cash benefits. A job for the individual means that one goes from being passively supported to becoming active contributes. And then there is the whole personal value and human perspective of getting up every morning, having a job to look after and being part of society. The Left believes that equal access to healthcare and education is a prerequisite for our welfare society and therefore very sensible. Equal access ensures that everyone, regardless of their father or mother's purse, can rise up and thus secure a better future if you want to work for it. Having said that, we do not believe that there is a need for a committee of inquiry such as the one proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102825	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102829	I'm gonna have to arrest the claim made by sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt came along when he asked the Minister questions, because he says that the OECD does not relate to Danish economies. Is it true that on page 19 of the OECD statement it says that an increase in the Gini coefficient from 20 to 21 per cent? Does it have the same effect as an increase in the coefficient from 40 to 41 per cent and therefore have consequences for gross domestic product and the growth of a society? I would just like to ask whether it is true that it is on page 19 of the OECD statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102911	Well it is certainly correct, as the OECD repeatedly, year after year, says, that the Danish top tax is a barrier to greater growth and prosperity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212102917	This means that the rapporteur himself says that it was a lie when he said earlier that the OECD did not relate to the Danish economy, because Denmark is 25 on the Gini coefficient, which means that the OECD says that they relate to all economies. It's good to get that admission. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur says several times that working in Denmark should pay off, and I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that the Ministry of Finance has made an assessment of what this means for people who are on transfer income. I think that is 96 per cent. of those who will earn more than 2,000 kroner. By getting to work. Does the Left not think that 2,000 kroner. is an increase in your income compared to when you are on transfer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103006	Of course the Left thinks so. However, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has probably, as I did, seen Blok on the assistance and the day the strangers disappeared on DR and found that a small financial incentive to take work is not always enough. And I don't like Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr's rhetoric. I merely point out that the OECD's report also examines how economies with a high income difference are affected more than economies with a weak income difference. However, I am here with an article from 18 January 2012, in which SF's then president, Villy Søvndal, supports a tax reform that increases the Gini coefficient and creates more inequality, with the justification that it is sensible from a wide range of social and economic parameters. Perhaps the President of the SF should have thought a little bit about this before writing the motion for a resolution, which shows an exceptional form of political bipolarity within a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103058	Then there is no more, and then there is no more for the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103118	Thank you. For the Socialists, it is a crucial value in our society that we strive for a relatively high level of equality and combat poverty. I think that with our social democratic welfare society in Denmark we have shown how prosperity and equality can go hand in hand. We believe that equality is essential for the secure and trusting society that we have. And we must strive for everyone to have the same good opportunities to create the life they want. From day one, the government has taken initiatives to ensure that several Danes can get out of poverty and live in decent conditions, and with investment in education and reform of education in various areas, in health policy and in several other areas, we are also trying to reduce inequality in the areas not only related to the economy. But, of course, we're not there yet. There are still poverty problems, although the curve has been broken for the first time since the start of the VK government back in the early 00s. After all, inequality exists both in terms of economics and health and opportunities in a broader sense. So we agree with SF that it is an essential topic in a society and in our social debate, but we do not agree with SF that there is a lack of statistics. There's plenty of that. The discussion on inequality and poverty is a political issue. Is there any doubt that it would increase inequality and poverty if the Left were to succeed in restoring poverty benefits, if the Left were to make more tax reforms with lower top tax rates, as they did in the 00s, or if they could introduce the highly uncertain experiment of zero growth in common welfare? After all, there is no doubt that this would increase inequality in the economy and opportunities and that it would increase poverty. The statistics and analyses that the SF is calling for in the motion for a resolution here are very much already available, and I think that the background notes on the SF's proposal are really a good example of this. Well, there are many pages of both statistics and inventories etc. that actually show that it's easy to draw a picture of what the situation is like in this field. Denmark has now also received an annual report on poverty, the one that the government has decided to publish as part of the publication "Family Economy." It is a work that is published once a year. Moreover, I agree with what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior said about the fact that it is of great value that it has come to this, contrary to what the previous government wanted, but also that it is something that comes every year, so that we constantly have a vision of the matter and can keep track of developments, rather than that there is a single Commission-like committee. In addition, Denmark's Statistics, SFI, the Labour Movement's Business Council and many other state or independent research institutes also produce both statistics and analyses in this field. The government is currently carrying out a study of deprivation to illustrate the social and material deprivation suffered by children and adults in economic poverty. And as a prelude to this debate, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has also made an analysis of the development of the highest wealthy percentage in Denmark. So it's not numbers we're missing, and we think that the proposal is most likely to lead to different duplications of effort in this statistical field. For the same reason, the government rejected the idea of the Finance Act negotiations, and instead we have opted in the Finance Act to spend the money on initiatives that actually ensure more equality in the health system, better conditions for cash aid recipients, better care for the elderly, more day care providers, better work with inclusion in the primary school, i.e. concrete initiatives which help to create more real equal opportunities. So in conclusion, we share values with the SF and the thinking behind this proposal, which the SF is behind, but we do not support spending money on setting up new committees to do something that we very much believe already exists. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103508	There are three brief points, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103512	Whatever the figures are in terms of economic equality and inequality in Denmark, you have to choose some tools if you want to make Denmark more economical. I'm gonna need to hear Mr. Kim. Jesper Petersen: For example. We in Denmark choose to increase the top tax in order to reduce economic inequality, will it lead to increased growth in Denmark, in the view of the Socialists, or will it perhaps lead to the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103547	If sir... Ole Birk Olesen asks if we have such a policy on the way, then the answer is no. There will be some consequences in doing so, but I would say that I think it is right and good that we have a progressive tax system in Denmark. That is one of the reasons why we remain as relative a society as we are. We will continue to have that. We are well aware of the views of the Liberal Alliance, which is, after all, shared with the Left, that the wealthiest should pay less in top tax. That is not our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103624	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103626	Yes, it was, as they say, a fine answer, but not to the question that was asked. The question was: If you increase the top tax in Denmark, will it increase economic growth, as the SF seems to think, or will it reduce economic growth? What do the Socialists rely on here? What expertise do the Social Democrats lean on, and what do the Social Democrats think? Will increased top tax increase economic growth in Denmark because it brings equality up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103653	It will not in itself, but I also warn against taking such an extremely isolated proposal and turning it into a debate on growth or not. After all, we have shown that you can have very great prosperity, high economic growth, a very high GDP and GNP per capita. In spite of this, one has to understand that there is a very high level of equality and that we have a relatively high marginal tax in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103725	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103728	I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur that there is no lack of statistics. But there is a lack of systematic processing of the statistics we have in order to have a better basis for policymaking. It is always good to have a good basis for decision when making political decisions for the development of Denmark, i.e. to know what the consequences are. When I hear the rapporteur say that we have enough knowledge, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can tell me what the situation is with the inequality in Denmark by 2020, and how and in what direction it will develop. are increasing wage differences in Denmark? For these are some of the consequences of the policies that we have to look at. We should not deal with the status quo; we have enough material on that. Nor should we relate to the past; we also have material on that. However, we must look at the consequences of this for the future, and that is why we are so concerned about the elimination of equality. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he has a fortune teller and therefore can see how inequality develops in Denmark, or whether he might also be interested in getting more systematically coherent knowledge of how developments are going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103831	I do not have any statistics on that with me, but I am sure that you can ask and get assessments of how developments will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103844	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103846	I would like to say that, just as I will not leave it to the EPOS to set up an unemployment benefit commission in Denmark, I will not leave it to independent, random assessment of how inequality is progressing in Denmark either. I am very sure that the CEPOS will have a different view of this than, for example. Employment Council of the Workers' Movement. That is why the SF says: let us now set up a committee from the government with experts who have knowledge in this area, but who of course also get some kind of objectivity in the recommendations they make forward-looking, in an explanation of the consequences that this may have for inequality. Will the rapporteur say more in this regard: then we must leave it to the external actors who are and then chance has to exist, even if this is such an important issue as inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212103933	It is still largely a political issue, and with the policy pursued by the government there is progress in several areas in terms of providing real equality of opportunity. It is about education; it is about less inequality in health; it is about ensuring that we still have a tax system and a way of financing our welfare, which means that the difference between the Danes is to make sure that we have a society with a high level of equality. And I am convinced that a projection of developments will now also show that we have by 2020. I do not propose to add a job to the EPOS nor to the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement. However, if you think that statistics are missing beyond everything that already exists or projections, it is possible to ask the same ministry and the same people who are doing the very thorough work that exists to do such things, just as you can for political proposals, which I also understand are part of the resolution. In other words, if you want to have assessments of what different policy measures will mean, then that is something that the government keeps making calculations of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104043	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104045	Left fights poverty, not wealth. Therefore, together with the government, we could also vote in favour of the tax reform in 2012. It is a tax reform, as Mr. Jesper Petersen himself has expressed a positive opinion on several occasions and, as a representative of the Left, I also recognise a number of sensible elements. It is indisputable that the tax reform helps to increase the Gini coefficient and thus helps to increase mathematical inequality; the inequality which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is talking so much about today, but which she herself, as a minister, helped to vote in favour of. At the same time, this tax reform contains a number of incentives to ensure that people in less well paid jobs also benefit from going to work. I think that makes sense, it seems reasonable to the Left. It creates motivation to make an extra effort. Will not Jesper Petersen acknowledge that the tax reform, which his own party has helped to vote through, even though it raises the Gini coefficient and creates more inequality, has been good for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104145	Yes, I think it is a good thing that the tax reform has been made, and I think it is a good thing that it has a completely different political starting point from the way tax reforms were made, since Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's party was in power. In other words, there were several of the tax reforms • 2004 and 2007 • for which there was no financial coverage. This meant that there was a gap in the Treasury, less money to run welfare societies for, and reliefs were distributed without funding. In 2009, there is an idea that there is funding, but there too there is the tax reform that was made at that time, which is why it was not supported by my party. Instead, we have now put in place a tax reform which gives priority to the lowest incomes, among others. The tax deduction increases a great deal for single parents, which shows how to make a relief to the personal tax, which has a completely different political starting point from what would happen if the Left had power, and which I also fear will happen, should the accident be out, and should the Left be given power again. So that again you will make new reductions in benefits for the very weakest groups, but give lower taxes to the most wealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104251	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104252	However, every political observer must recognize the great transformation which the SF and the Social Democrats have undergone since the elections, where the slogan was called a millionaire tax and some quite different political initiatives from those which have since been implemented. I recognize that too, and that is why I think it may be a little sad that Mr. Jesper Petersen spends so many calories telling us what he fears we would have done, rather than acknowledging the question that I quite rightly ask, that is that the tax reform we have made together increases inequality, but that it is nevertheless sensible for the development of Danish society. I think the rapporteur should acknowledge this rather than spend time and calories criticizing something he fears the Left would have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104328	I'm just trying to get some politics into this discussion, so it's a little less about statistics, because I think we've been looking at that, but I'm pointing to some of the political differences. I think that this is a good tax reform and I do not think that we should make policy and assess individual reforms, that is, whether they are sensible or not, on a mathematical formula alone such as the Gini coefficient. I simply do not think that would be a wise policy. So you can make a tax reform where it is extremely difficult to make tax relief at work without having that consequence on the Gini coefficient. Therefore, you can still just screw it together in completely different ways. Our main focus is on the lowest incomes, and the policy of the Left has been that the most prosperous should have increased tax relief. This has been achieved with the support of the Danish People's Party in the past, and we have pursued a different tax policy. It is interesting enough to bring these things into the light, namely that there are very clear differences when we have a discussion today on the trend of inequality, among other things. in relation to fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104430	Sir. Mike Legarth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104432	In the Conservative People's Party, of course, we also like to fight poverty, and I do not think we have that in Denmark either. We have a strong social safety net that takes care of it. I actually think that the debate should be about whether the safety net has not become too strong and whether we do not animate and motivate some people not to exploit the potential they have and take the responsibility they should have. But now and now, because I have a short time, I would like to ask Mr Jesper Petersen: if one of Denmark's richest moves to Switzerland, equality will increase in Denmark. Is that good? I would say to myself that no, it is not, because then there will be less money in the treasury, so there will be less money for education and health and to create good conditions for the weakest in society. What is the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104524	I have to say that I completely disagree with Mike Legarth that we should have a safety net which needs to be broken down, that it should be inferior. I know that is the policy of the Conservatives. If the Conservatives together with the Left over the years had got their way and there had not been social democratic prime ministers over most of the last century, Denmark would have looked completely different today. Then it would have been difficult today for Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt to make the same speech he made a moment ago about how good and just a society the Danish is fortunately. So I completely disagree with Mike Legarth that there should be a need to have a worse social safety net in Denmark. Then I think it is a way to pervert the discussion a little bit, because no, it is not positive when people move from Denmark, but that is not the picture you can see either. It is good and attractive to live in Denmark, even if we have a relatively high marginal tax. Then there may be a Saxo Bank director who is moving out now and then, but the scare picture that it should be impossible to keep people in Denmark who earn well simply does not fit. It doesn't reflect reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104631	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104633	That's sir. Jesper Petersen, who perverts the debate. Because now I'm saying a few things from down here, and then Mr. Jesper Petersen in his head, and then he says that now Conservatives are in favour of a bad social safety net. No, I don't. But I am talking about how to motivate people, and I do not think it is particularly appropriate that it is worth choosing a job because you get just as much in public support and that we therefore have a lot of foreign labour. It is a separate debate that we should spend a great many hours on. But let us now come back to the reality of it with equality. I don't think I got a good answer. Another example could be that housing prices are rising and thus housing owners are becoming wealthier, thus increasing inequality. Is that a problem? No, it isn't, because nobody's gotten any worse. That is why this debate is completely misunderstood. Does the rapporteur not agree that this certainly cannot be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104747	Well, I agree that there are some of these very mathematical ways of going to the discussion that can make it completely distorted. But what remains, politically speaking, is that Mr. Mike Legarth started by saying that one had to ask oneself: I think that's what he said, we can check afterwards if the safety net wasn't too good. Actually, I think that's what Mr. Mike Legarth's words. I know that underneath it all there is a policy to have reductions in cash benefits and daily allowances, to give increased relief to the most prosperous in Denmark, and we completely disagree on that. It would result in more inequality, it would result in more poverty, and it would take a different direction from that on which we have built in Denmark, with both equality and prosperity, a relatively harmonious society with relatively low crime, social security, etc. So it's a political question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104841	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104845	Thank you. It is a simple question of whether it is still the aim of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to reduce economic inequality, whether it is an independent objective. After all, it is stated in the government's constitution that there is a goal to reduce inequality, but there have been a number of debates both here in the Assembly in connection with the question hours and also in the daily press, where there have been several ministers who have been out saying that it is no longer an historic objective for the Socialists, or that it does not matter that inequality increases. So I have actually been in doubt as to whether it is still an independent goal of the Socialists to reduce inequality economically in Denmark, so I would like to hear that from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212104933	It is clearly social democratic policy that we must remain a society with a relatively high level of equality. We can pride ourselves on that now, and that is how it should continue to be. Then there may be some examples that over the years some have done really well as this one percent, and that even inside that percentage there is a peril that has done really, really well, and they must then pay the tax they have to, and we will make sure that this is a fair way of doing. After all, we will not begin to complain that LEGO or Danfoss or others have done well. But we must make a fair contribution along the way. Then I would just like to warn against what is sometimes known to be behind Enhedslisten's views... that it is simply impossible to implement a policy that does not also go down the mathematics of the Gini coefficient the way that Enhedslisten wants. And I think that's just a dangerous way to limit itself. This leads to a political paralysis which is not sensible. One must look at the development of society more than at the consequences of individual diets. I sometimes regret the fact that one encounters that stone in a political debate that must be about developing our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105054	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105056	Well, I very much agree that the interesting thing is to look at the development of society, and when we look back from the 1980s onwards, we can also see a sharp increase in inequality in Denmark. Also when we look at the last 4, 5, 6 years, that is, since the financial crisis, we can see a rather violent acceleration in inequality in Denmark. Denmark is one of the OECD countries where inequality has accelerated most over the last 4-5 years. So when we look at these slightly more general trends, they show that inequality is growing. The reason I ask is whether this is an independent objective for the government, because it is true in the government's constitution that it is quite interesting in terms of what is, like, the point of reference for the reforms you are making. What is so characteristic of the reforms that have been made to the cash benefits reform, the SU reform, the early retirement reform, the flex-job reform and the tax reform that we have mentioned here, including corporate taxes and the growth plan, is that all five contribute to increasing inequality in Denmark. So you could say that the overall picture is that inequality has increased over the last 20-30 years, that inequality has increased over the last 4-5 years, and that inequality has increased under this government's governance. Then it goes in the right direction from Mr. Jesper Petersen's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105213	I really think that discussion is a better place to start. So, earlier in the debate there was such an OECD discussion on whether equality leads to increased growth and such a thing. I am actually interested in the moral discussion about having communities where there are equal opportunities to create the kind of life you want. And that is where we have come a long way with social mobility in Denmark compared with other countries, but I do not believe that we are in the end. That is why, in fact, the point of the reforms that we have carried out is that we need to have more equality in education. I mean, we need a better primary school that is better at lifting those who today do not do well enough when they leave primary school. We need to have higher quality in vocational training and we need to retrain more unskilled people who otherwise have less chances. We must take action against inequalities in health, as we do with the health plan that we agree to implement. Then, of course, it is also essential to keep an eye on the fact that inequality within the economy does not develop in a way that we do not think should characterize Denmark. There has been a slight increase in inequality; there has not been that between 2007 and 2012, as I heard the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior refer to it. As far as income is concerned, we are still in a place where Denmark is one of the most equal countries in the world. And I think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105340	Sir. René Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105343	I would just like to ask the rapporteur, who seems very disagreeable with the Liberal Alliance, the Left and the Conservatives, and that is how he says that what happened in the past, including with the votes of the Danish People's Party, was much worse: is it not true that this government and also the previous government, of which the SF was also a part, just made tax reductions of 4 billion? kr. After full phase-in? They could also have been used for tax cuts in a different way, for example at the bottom, for job deductions or other things, which would have given rise to competitiveness in relation to companies. However, it was decided to grant them tax relief. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105416	It is just as correct as the fact that the Danish People's Party, under the previous government, helped to facilitate corporate tax; it is just as correct. So I don't really know where mr. René Christensen wants to go with the question. As a government, we are concerned that the whole package of competitiveness is developing in a favourable way, and we are doing so by investing in education, in infrastructure, in research, in good health care, in good cooperation between the public and private sectors and in ensuring that there are some tax conditions and some corporate tax conditions that make it attractive to invest and operate in Denmark. And competitiveness becomes And there's this element in it. Yeah, you could have chosen to do it another way. There was a great debate on this, but this is therefore an element in ensuring that the Danish economy is doing well and that we have a good competitiveness, but still operate in a way that also affords our welfare societies. I'm thinking it's actually the same way, sir. René Christensen wanted to defend the fact that the Danish People's Party made corporate tax reductions earlier. Unlike the Danish People's Party, we were just not involved in the relief of the personal tax to the very richest Danes, as Mr. René Christensen's party participated in several rounds before the last election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105533	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105536	After all, it is these political discussions that are running a little bit off track, because it will be so much about what one has done and what the other has done. This is more the picture which the Social Democrat rapporteur would like to draw from the fact that we have now become a different party and only want something at the bottom. That's not true, because equality is both, and that's kind of just the picture I'm trying to draw here. You cannot talk about only wanting something at the bottom; something must also happen at the other end. It is not only equality that you just meet somewhere, because it is not certain that we will have a richer society of it. This debate is all the more complex, and that is really just what I am trying to call on the rapporteur to say as well, instead of spending so much effort on shooting backwards and shooting forwards and so on. etc., that is to say to have this, I would actually say, important debate. I would therefore like to commend the SF for putting forward this proposal, because it is how is it that we have an equal society while, of course, we also have growth? Because I guess no one wants to have an equal society because we're getting poorer. After all, we want an equal society, while at the same time becoming richer in the community. Does the rapporteur not agree with this and that this is also a complex area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105633-2	It is absolutely true, and therefore it is good that so much statistics are also being made on it and that, for example, we are doing so. now has started to carry out a poverty statement, which the previous government did not want, because it could then be stopped. But we think that we should be able to do so by explaining every year how poverty is going, because we want to combat it. Then I'd just like to say to Mr. Knox. René Christensen's question is that it was actually Mr. René Christensen, who asked me about something the government had done and started this debate on what was behind it. And then I just take the liberty of drawing attention to the fact that Mr. René Christensen's own party has voted in favour of those things in the past. I guess there's nothing wrong with that. But as I sense, sir. René Christensen's starting point politically and also the rose to the SF to address the issue, I agree. Then I think we should spend some of the Christmas holidays considering whether it was so wise to give such significant tax relief to the most prosperous under the previous government, and whether it is now so clever to support Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, who wants to introduce more poverty by reintroducing poverty benefits and opting for more tax relief for the most wealthy Danes. Is it now the right way to go if you have to trust what Mr. René Christensen says? I guess the answer is obvious. I just have the feeling that the Danish People's Party will not really be about it, but that is the policy that is really going to be supported, with zero growth and increased inequality, that is, if things go so wrong that there is a bourgeois majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105805	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. It's sir. René Christensen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212105829	First of all, I must say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal, but it is not because we do not think that the intentions in it are right. It is actually a rather interesting proposal, we think, when we look at the content, because what is equality, how do we achieve equality, and is equality good? Kindness is kind of good. But is inequality equal to bad? Depends on how the curves are running. If you look at it and see that you have a society that is economically on the top of the basket and a society that is down and that has a smaller economy, then it is true that the top curve does not run off and that the bottom one does not break and goes down. That's what's interesting. I also think that we should think about what lies in the proposal, namely whether equality is only about the economy. No. Equality is not just economics, and that is also where it is beginning to be difficult. Because can you put everything in spreadsheets in proportion to equality? I think you can meet people who have a relatively low income but who think they are very rich. They think they are rich because they are home every day when their children come home from school; they are rich because they have a close family life; they are rich because they have the time. I think you can also meet a lot of people who have a very, very high income and who think they are poor at time and therefore have a challenge in relation to it. Then I also fully agree with the approach of the proposers to education. And I think that's what's interesting, because what gives you equality? At least it's the education system. We can clearly see that those who have difficulty with education also find it difficult to be self-supporting. And when it comes to self-supporting, statistics also show that it provides quality of life, and it does, even if you are self-supporting at a lower economic level, because there is some satisfaction in being self-supporting in adult life. Therefore, care must be taken to put welfare equal to prosperity. But what so little characterises some of the things that lie in the proposal is that the economy must reflect equality. That is why we also recognise what the OECD says and what we can also see when we look at other countries, namely that those countries that have a high degree of equality are, in fact, also countries that work very well and are also countries that have growth. Therefore, this is of course a parameter that we also need to look at in Denmark, but it is just important to look at that it is about that it is the bottom that does not fall and that it should not be the top that runs completely off. That is the discussion that needs to be held. So I really think that the proposal is more about this discussion being more of a discussion that we politicians take with each other, rather than it being a commission to sit and work for two years, and every time we have to make legislation, four lines are written in, and equality has been taken into account in relation to the work of the Commission that was done sometime in the year x. I think, in fact, that this debate is not a debate that should end today when we are discussing it in the Chamber. It is a debate which must thus continue forward-looking, in terms of how we think equality, also in relation to tax legislation, in relation to the education system, etc. etc. At the same time, when we look at health and other things, for example, we have to be careful that this does not happen with a raised index finger, because now we all have to be the same, because now there has to be equality: we have to have a food minister who has to decide what we have to eat, because we should not eat spaghetti and meat sauce, because it is unhealthy. We need a health minister who must constantly lift the index finger and say that now we must stop smoking, now we must stop smoking, and now we must stop smoking. People must also be allowed to have their own lives in relation to what they want as citizens of Denmark. It must be possible. So, in order to make a long story short, we think that the intentions of the resolution are good, and I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that this is something we would like to have with us when we discuss politics time and time again. We also believe that it could be a recurring event, for example. in relation to questions and other matters, that we have this discussion, which I think has proved to be an excellent discussion today. Of course we are close to a choice, and that is why there are some odds sometimes, but I think that the debate that has been heard here is actually also useful in relation to how complicated a case it is when we speak equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110249	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110251	I agree with the rapporteur that equality is not just about the economy, it is also about social policy, it is about education policy, it is about employment policy, and we also write that in our proposal. There are, in fact, quite a few policy areas that need to play together. A little like when we make a financial law where things have to play together from an economic point of view, it makes sense that we also look at these things in relation to inequality, and that is why we have put it on the agenda. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party considers this to be an important discussion, and therefore I would also like to ask Dansk Folkeparti about something: Does the Danish People's Party think it is reasonable that the 3F has received a salary increase of 0.5% over the last 10 years, while the director has received an average salary increase of 23.3%.? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110342	Now you have to be careful just to look at what you get before taxes. The tax system is also a big part of this system of what is being paid. If you talk to ordinary people out there, for example. The 3F, so the 3F is not interested in his hourly salary, the 3F is interested in what goes into the bank account every first month. That is why, as I also said earlier on the reductions in corporation tax, we believe that much more could have been done, both in order to achieve equality, but in fact also in order to create competitiveness, by having more money left in the labour market. It must therefore be worthwhile to work. And there I think it would be really healthy if you looked at the bottom, i.e. relieved the tax at the bottom so that it pays better to work, while employers can also keep their wages at rest. It is not in itself a problem that there is wage restraint, it is not a problem in Denmark, because competitiveness is one of our biggest challenges. When asked whether we think it is a challenge that the top runs with the money, I would say that we think it is a challenge when we look at OW Bunker and others. The day before you go bankrupt, apartments and everything else have been bought. Yeah, we kind of think that's a problem. We also think it is a problem when we look at bank managers and others that wages have run out. We agree with that, but we do not recognise that the fact that there have been no wage increases should be a major problem, because that is something that can be dealt with with with the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110501	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110504	After all, SF shares the view of the Danish People's Party as to where any tax cuts should be when we talk about people in the labour market, namely at the bottom. It can be said that this was also what was done with the tax reform when this government came to where it actually managed to make a tax reform that eased the tax burden on those who have the least in our society. It was the first time that this happened if you compare with those we saw in the '00s, who were about making top tax reliefs so do something for those who were wealthiest in society. One may then wonder about it, but it is good that the Danish People's Party agrees with the SF now that the focus will be on the bottom. But I really just want a very clear answer to something, and that is just a yes or no, it doesn't have to be anymore: is it fair that the 3F has only got a salary increase of 0.5%? for the last 10 years, while the Director has received more than 23 per cent.? Does the Danish People's Party think it is reasonable to say yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110559	It is the difficult choice to be faced as a politician, yes or no to a question that cannot be answered yes or no. Because we see it as such that we don't actually think that you should be jealous of those who run a lot of businesses, because you just have to remember that when you look out the window and the expensive car with the Danish license plates driving by, it is paid 180 per cent. in the charge of the car. It may be that the man or woman who sits in the car is him or her, the rest of us are going to work for at some point, those are the Danes who work for. We must remember that those who work hard must also be allowed a reward. Then I fully agree that we can find simple examples that the way the money has been spent is deeply unfair, especially when we can also see that companies have subsequently not been able to pay each man his own. We are in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110643	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Was there a last-minute mark? There was. It was at the very last moment. Then it is Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110652	I'm sorry. I was on Friday. I just thought it was an interesting debate, so it is so difficult for the Danish People's Party to answer clearly the question coming from the SF. I do not really think it is so difficult to answer yes or no. For the development we have seen is that in just a few years it has become the case that there is much, much greater difference between the salaries of an ordinary LO employee and that of his or her director. And now the Danish People's Party talked about envy and such things. For me, it's not about envy. For me, it's about whether the director really is worth it. Are they really worth it that they have to get 15 times their employees' salary, as it was in 2006, rather than 10 years earlier, where it was just half of it? Are the directors really worth it, according to the Danish People's Party, or has there been some distortion, where the directors take so much of the cake that they are in fact a burden on the competitiveness of companies in some sense? I would like the Danish People's Party to be a little clearer on this issue. I don't think it's that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110802	After all, it is a question of supply and demand. After all, this is a very important issue, and I hope that with this school reform we are now going to have much more on the subject of entrepreneurship. We have had a long, long period of time in which there are many people who have trained us to enter the labour market and become employees. So when you're going to recruit the people who are going to run these companies, it's not like you just put an ad in the paper, and then it comes in with qualified applications for it. And then it's gonna be a market where the employees in these key posts are stolen around, and there's an economy part of it. Of course you can mourn that, and that is where we also have to help to get a much larger supply of people who have this drive and who want to work 60 hours or 65 hours a week for a month's pay. That's what this is all about. It's not like people go to work from 8 to 16 every day, and then you go home. It is also people who live and breathe for the job they have. So there's just not that many of them. Then it has to be said that in a society such as ours it is determined by supply and demand, and when there is a shortage of them, you have to pay the price for recruiting those who need it. And then you can easily find single examples, where, of course, I recognise that you have turned up too high.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110911	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110912	So what we are talking about is that during the crisis, at a time when things were not going very well, for example. the banks, or too many of the large Danish companies, paid off completely from the rest of the population. So I don't really understand why the Danish People's Party is doing this. Is it not very easy to say that it is not reasonable; something has gone wrong; there are some proportions here that are slipping away? The boards have lost track of what is reasonable and we lack some reasonableness in our labour market, namely that there is some kind of connection between what you contribute and then the salary you receive regardless of whether you are 3Fs, METALs or CEO.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212110958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111000	It's such a funny discussion, isn't it? We can take the DONG sale. The government and the SF voted in favour of this. Among other things, there were: an option that everyone should have a lot of shares. There is no doubt that when those shares are paid out at some point, the management of DONG will become two-digit millionaires more or less all together. You think that's what it took. The Danish People's Party did not think so. That's where it keeps moving. One can easily stand here and say that one does not want to. I think I can make a lot of Social Democrats and SFs say that this is wrong, but when it really comes down to it, it is said that it is the best trade Denmark can make. These things are included, so the management gets to get these huge sums of money when they sell their shares one day. So he is not driving around in the van out there for DONG, who has been allowed to buy shares at a very favorable price, that is the management. So this one's pointing both ways in terms of how this is going. That is also why, as I started by saying, I think the debate is very good, because it is very complex, and it would be a pity if it were a debate that stopped today, when this resolution as it now stands does not materialise. There may not be such an explanation of equality, but that is why the debate is still insane, and I think that it should be included in future work, even when we are making legislation in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111117	I do not think there are any more brief comments; thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Camilla Her as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111126	Thank you. The SF has put forward proposals for the preparation of an equal opportunities report, and in many ways it is a sympathetic proposal. The Radical Left is also concerned with equality in society, including, above all, the creation of equal opportunities. However, SF motivates its proposal that we do not know enough about equality, that equality is crucial to the Danish social model, and that inequality in Denmark is increasing. I really believe that these three grounds can be called into question. Firstly, we already know quite a lot about inequality. As the Minister has already pointed out, in addition to what we already know, the government has taken a number of initiatives to describe inequality, among other things. by presenting an annual report on poverty. Secondly, it is emphasised that equality is essential for the Danish social model. Yes, it is, if you belong to the centre-left, but I am sure that if you ask elsewhere in the political spectrum, there will be very great disagreement about how important the equality is for Danish society, especially on the economic parameters. Thirdly, it is claimed that inequality is increasing. But there is not really any indication of that. In addition, a number of initiatives have been taken in the time of this government, including when the SF was in government. to reduce poverty by abolishing poverty benefits. When Denmark has come this far in the fight against poverty and inequality, it is largely due to the Danish welfare society, which the Social Democrats and the Radical Left have been the main architects behind, a society characterised by a fair balance between the economic redistribution of tax tickets and personal freedom. Today's debate is based on the fact that this balance has been undermined. The proponents claim that the income gap in Denmark has increased significantly since 1994 and that earning more and getting ever greater bites of social cake. It may be that this development has been in place in other countries, and there is much evidence that it has, but there is no indication that it is the picture in Denmark. That is why equality is still a central value for the Radical Left. In our view, there should not be too great a gap between rich and poor. That is why we are pleased that there is no prospect of it, and that is why our political focus is to create the best conditions for people to seize society's opportunities in terms of education or work. Because it's basically about people. In the society we dream of, the daughter of the unskilled worker has the same opportunity to become an engineer or a doctor as the bank manager's son. This requires that we in Denmark complement a mathematical-economic equality objective with a goal of increasing social mobility, so that more people get an education and a stronger link with the labour market than their parents. And that is what we are doing. Since 2011 we have been reforming the primary school and reforming the upper secondary education system, and we are barring with a reform of the upper secondary education system. The core of these reforms is, of course, that they have to put an end to the inequality in the education system and that everyone must be able to reach the utmost of their potential, precisely to address the inequality. Another area which is central and which is also mentioned in the context of the motion for a resolution is health. But here in Denmark we have the paradox that although there is easy and equal access to the health system, we have very, very great inequality in that area. This is partly due to the fact that the resourceful are treated better in the system than the resourceless, which is a major and independent problem, but it is also due to the fact that lifestyle factors mean a great deal to the overall health picture in Denmark, and we must do something about that. However, we know exactly what needs to be done and, as the Minister also pointed out, the government has taken a number of initiatives aimed precisely at combating inequalities in health. So, in conclusion, regardless of the fact that we fully agree that equality is important and that inequality should therefore be addressed, it is not an explanation that we need. We know quite, quite a lot about what it is that creates inequality in Denmark, and it is not primarily economic. What is needed is therefore that we act on the knowledge we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111600	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111602	I can hear the rapporteur saying that we know a lot about inequality. I would therefore also like to ask whether the Radical Left agrees with the conclusions of Wilkinson and Pickett's book, which says that equal societies have lower crime, fewer mental problems, less abuse and greater trust. Are you radicals in agreement with that assessment, given that we know enough, or are there grounds for examining whether we actually know enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111632	I agree with the conclusion, but the point is that the picture drawn in the book, that there is a very large and increasing difference between the highest and the lowest income, does not apply to Denmark. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has made an excellent analysis of this, which any interested person can consult, which is called 'Top Incomes in Denmark', and which shows that the development we have seen in a number of countries, is not of course one of the most equal countries in the world when it comes to economic opportunities. What is our problem is that, although we have succeeded in creating a society where economic inequality is very small and where there is free and equal, or at least easy and equal, access to some of the things that are pointed out as essential for equality in a society, namely health and education, we have, despite that inequality. And that is because there are some other mechanisms that are at stake, and these are the ones we need to address if we actually want to create equal opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111730	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111731	Now I asked about the conclusions of Wilkinson and Pickett's book and not about Piketty's book, but it is good that the rapporteur is responding to the second, so I would like to ask how the rapporteur knows that inequality will not increase in Denmark up to, for example, Denmark. 2020. If we look at developments in Sweden and Finland, 25 years ago Sweden was the most equal country in the world, but inequality has increased dramatically in Sweden over the last 25 years. I would just like to ask where the rapporteur knows from that development cannot also infect Denmark, since Sweden and Finland are usually countries we look and develop towards. I would like an answer to that. And 2: How does the rapporteur estimate that inequality in Denmark will be by 2020 when we now know so much about inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111818	We know a lot about the situation today, but it is obviously difficult to predict the future. I am sorry that I thought I heard the conclusion from a book other than that from which the rapporteur read. After all, how this develops in the future depends on what political majority there is. After all, this government has no intention of moving into a development which gives rise to very, very great inequality. On the contrary, we are doing everything in our power to ensure that people get better opportunities at all, that they get the key that is the best key to being able to decide on their own lives and conditions: a job, that many more young people get an education, that they can create themselves a place in a world that is increasingly globalised, and that, therefore, they are challenged if they do not have skills that can match the needs and wages that are in the current labour market. And these demands are high in Denmark because you get a high salary in Denmark. Surely I cannot guarantee what will happen by 2020. I have heard that the Left Party, which is the opposition's largest party, would like differentiated cash aid. The latest play is shown to be about the fact that if you are a refugee or an immigrant in Denmark, you must have much lower performance than Danes. This type of thing will then lead to much greater inequality, but it is not the radical Left's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111945	Mrs Stine Brix, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212111949	When we talk about what is going to happen in the future in relation to inequality, I would just like to ask whether it is not true that the effect of the cash benefits reform and the effect of the tax reform are not included in the inventory that Mrs Camilla Herder talks about, because the cash benefits reform only came into force from 2013, and we know that there is a gradual phasing-in of the tax reform, among other things. This element, which greatly increases inequality, i.e. that transfer incomes are not regulated, at the rate they should be gradually phased in. So we do know that the reforms introduced by the government will increase inequality in the years to come, but that is not what Camilla Hersom refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112032	I admit that they are not included in the figures we have so far, but the point of the reforms is not to increase inequality. The point of the reforms is to get people into work. If we get many more people into jobs, it will of course contribute positively to the overall picture, and that is the purpose. But having said that, it is clear that there will be a group of people in Denmark who will, of course, do that here as in any other society which, for one or the other legitimate reason, cannot work. You can, for example. be severely disabled or anything else, have an accident, become mentally ill in a way that is so disabling that you cannot work. Of course, these people must be dealt with at a reasonable level, and that is why there must be a balance between what is the level of transfers and what is the level of wage income that also takes account of them. However, the reforms do not have an independent purpose, which is to increase inequality. Reforms must get people to work, and we have very, very much faith that they also help people to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112133	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112136	Firstly, I think it was good to make it clear that the reforms are not included in the figures that Mrs Camilla is talking about. My expectation is clear that it will have a negative effect on increasing inequality, because what lies in the reforms is that it will be significantly more expensive for those who are unemployed at the time it is. I do not suppose that Mrs Camilla Her who is counting on us not to have anyone who will be dependent either on receiving cash benefits or on cash benefits during a period in which they have lost their jobs. After all, the basic idea of reform is to increase the gap between those who are unemployed and those who are in the labour market, and that will increase inequality. Then one hopes that the fact that you become poorer by becoming unemployed will make people rush out and find a job that I do not know how to fall from the sky because of it, but that is what the thinking of the reforms will do, and that will increase inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112228	I simply disagree with that. I do not know whether Mrs Stine Brix is better at looking into the future than I am, but we are creating more jobs. The economic report was presented yesterday. We have succeeded in creating many, many more thousands of jobs, so it is also quite clear in the Economic Statement that the number of longterm unemployed is decreasing. Of course, there will always be a group which is outside the labour market, but for most people who can take a job, it should be a shorter rather than a longer period, you are staying on a passive service, not just because, by its very nature, it provides less economic space than if you have a job, and that is what we think it should be, but, of course, first and foremost, because it is quite different for the individual to earn his own money and thus be able to decide on his own life.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112319	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112322	I was actually enjoying the debate between Mrs Camilla Hersom and the various questioners, until Mrs Camilla Her who was running for the Left Party and our new policy towards immigrants and refugees. And this drew my attention to a reply from the Minister for Employment of April last year, when the Minister for Employment replied to the committee that it has cost well over half a billion dollars to abolish the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits, the start-up aid, but it has not provided any jobs, since most of the people who used to be on these benefits have now come directly on cash benefits. How does the policy of the Radical Left actually escape when Camilla Her, who has just explained in this Chamber that the government's reforms are aimed at creating labour market supply and jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112413	This is very, very fine, because what is so difficult in a debate like this is that there are many considerations at the same time. And if sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt had listened, not only when I kissed the Left, what I think there is reason for this question, but also in one of the other answers, he would also have heard that it is indeed important for us that those people who for some reason are not on the labour market, of course, also have dignified and fair conditions. I believe that the balance between what you then get on passive benefits and how the various steps are in the labour market is something that we must constantly discuss and be prepared to adjust. But we do not think that poverty benefits were a good idea. It is a political choice for us to say that we abolished them because we could simply see that there were so many families, especially families with children, who were very badly affected by it. Having said that, what we are really trying to do is to create the opportunities for as many people as possible in this society to enter the labour market, to earn their own money, to become masters of their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112521	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112522	I am therefore pleased that Mrs Camilla Hersom and the Radical Left in general have a good conscience. But there is now no reason to have that, because we have gone from a situation, documented by among others. The Rockwool Foundation, where newcomers had a strong incentive to find a job in the Danish labour market, to a situation now that they are isolated, wrapped in cotton wool with high transfer income and with the only contact with society being the monthly transfer income ticking in from the municipality. This has damaged integration, as Berlingske documented last week. But as long as Mrs Camilla Hersom and the Radical Left have a good conscience, I suppose that is all right. I may have just had a little more expectations of Denmark's most intellectually founded party, but then you can be so disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112600	Well, our approach is not just to remove poverty benefits, and then people can be allowed to sit at home. We must, of course, do everything possible to ensure that that group gets to work, and we intend to take initiatives on this too. What is just important to us is that no matter who you are in Danish society, you must have the opportunity to have a dignified existence, and therefore there is simply a limit to how low the transfer income can be. And there I am fully aware that we disagree with the Left Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112634	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212112643	I can at least begin by saying that this is a proposal which we on the Group of the European People's Party can easily support. I and we believe that there is a great need to focus on inequality, which has increased in several ways over the last 10-15 years, as a number of reforms have been carried out that have aimed or functioned to increase inequality, especially between those who are in the labour market and those who are outside the labour market. I know there are many who think that inequality in itself is a good thing, on the basis of such a thinking that it should make people really give it a shell and get growth going. Reality is just another. The reality is that countries with a high degree of equality do better than countries with a high degree of inequality, and this is seen in many different ways. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If those countries among OECD countries are compared with those with the highest levels of inequality, there will be a significant difference in prosperity, i.e. around 18%. You can also make the comparison between those countries within the European Union with the highest level of equality and those countries with the highest level of inequality within the European Union, and then you will see a major advantage for those countries that have the most equality. Inequality has increased. We can look at the inequality in incomes as an example. Danmarks Statistik made the publication •Indkomster 2012 • which was published here in the spring. It shows an inventory of income inequality measured by the Gini coefficient, which shows that over the last 10 years, i.e. 2002-2012, the inequality measured on Ginipoint increased from barely 24 to 28, which is an increase of about 17 per cent. Even when we look at fortunes, we see an increase in inequality. We have a problem, regardless of the fact that in today's debate we have been talking about all sorts of data, because, in fact, when it comes to wealth, we have rather inadequate inventories of assets, so it was at least a place we could correct a lot if we wanted to follow the area. It is the case that inequality has harmful effects on our society, as we have already mentioned in the debate here today, primarily for employees, because inequality is accompanied by poverty, or poverty is accompanied by inequality. It has both Denmark's Statistics and the Labour Movement's Business Council documented it, but it is also because inequality threatens cohesion, the community threatens a number of parameters. We know that countries with a high degree of inequality have more crime than countries with a high level of equality. We know that there is greater social mobility if there is equality in a society that is less corruption, there are a number of factors that give societies that work better when the level of equality is high. Then we have also mentioned here in the debate that there are also several studies suggesting that inequality reduces the growth of a society. The OECD has mentioned several things. When inequality is increasing, growth is also falling, and this is actually being pointed out, contrary to what Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt said "Whether there is a high degree of inequality in a society or whether there is not so much inequality." So, from our point of view, it is quite reasonable to make an effort to ensure that we look more closely at equality, for example. by looking specifically at how the laws adopted by the Folketing affect equality. It can also give a debate about the actions we are taking, i.e. what effect they have on more parameters than just the ones we are looking at today. It is also our assessment that there are a number of tools that we need. I mentioned, for example. the statement in relation to assets earlier. It could be a very good idea to get it so that we could get it into the context of the debate. We can also support the proposal to have a secretariat of our own and that there is some sort of arm's length arm for the central administration in it. I think that's important. Finally, we also think it is quite good to let it work for a few years. But on the bottom line is that we can support the motion for a resolution from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113118	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113121	Mrs Stine Brix said in her speech: many think that inequality is a good thing on the basis of the idea that it should get growth and employment going. I have to hear: Does Enhedslisten think that it is a bad thing that there is a difference between how much you have in income, if you are in work, and how much you have if you are not in work; that there is a difference between how much you have in income, if you work 20 hours a week, and how much you have if you work 40 hours a week? Or does Enhedslisten think that the inequality between those who work a lot and those who work a little should be eliminated completely in Danish society when Enhedslisten's dream vision for Danish society is established?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113210	No, I don't think so. I think it is fair that there is a connection in relation to how much you work. I also think it is fair that there is a link between the pay you receive and the qualifications you have. But what we are seeing right now is that you increase the difference between those who have lost their jobs for a period of time and those who have a job, significantly and too much, I think. Because it is the case that the reason why we have, for example. cash benefits, is a recognition that we have an economy and it returns in crises where people risk getting fired and losing their jobs. In this situation, it is very important that there is compensation for the loss of income they have, so that they do not go through completely. There we see, then, that the compensation you receive, i.e. the allowances you receive, has been significantly reduced compared to the wages that people lose. And the social consequences of losing a job are becoming much, much greater, including the risk that comes with it, for example. must leave his house, sell his car or anything else; it is extremely inappropriate. So I think it is fair that there is an effect of working and that it also reflects how many hours you work and what qualifications you have. But I disagree with the violent shifts we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113324	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113326	Well that's just an interesting answer, because when Enhedslisten says that some people think that inequality is good, it also applies to Enhedslisten himself. Enhedslisten himself thinks it is good that there is a difference between whether you work a lot or work a little, whether you work or not at all. The inequality between those who work a lot and those who work a little seems to Enhedslisten is good. We have just heard Mrs Stine Brix say so. What we are discussing and what Enhedslisten is concerned about is whether the possibility is too great in Denmark. We can discuss that and it is a real discussion, but Enhedslisten should not pretend that Enhedslisten is against all inequality. The Enhedslisten just thinks there's too much compared to what the rest of us think.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113409	What I tried to start with was, after all, the discussion that is often in economic policy, that it is about achieving a greater degree of inequality and that it should generate growth in itself. Ole Birk Olesen's own party often advocates it, that is, that it is good with increased inequality, because then people run out there, and then growth increases. I disagree with that. I disagree with that because what we actually see is that countries with a high degree of equality are doing better: there is a higher degree of prosperity, there is a higher level of prosperity. Because it's not like when inequality grows a lot in a society, it's better. It is good that there is cohesion and that you have an opportunity to see that you yourself have some chances in a society. So that is basically just the point that inequality itself promotes growth, i.e. increasing inequality is good, I disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113458	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen continues from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212113517	First of all, with regard to the motion for a resolution, which calls for the setting up of a committee of experts to deal with the inequality in Denmark, I would say that we cannot support it. Like what has been said by the government, I can point out that we already have an annual publication, which has now been given the title of "The Family's Economy', "Distribution, Poverty and Incentives', and which appeared in May 2014. In the past, this publication was just called "Sharing and Incentives', but then a new government has arrived, and it also puts poverty into it. I think it is a very good publication, which in fact gives an answer to what the SF would have liked to have done with this motion for a resolution. Then I will move on to the whole debate on equality and inequality and to the discussion on what the OECD has said. There is no doubt whatsoever that the OECD recommends Denmark to implement policies which will have as a side effect an increase in economic inequality in Denmark. Only in January the OECD has recommended that we lower the top tax in Denmark. This will increase economic inequality, but it will also increase economic growth. Nor is there any doubt that the OECD recommends Denmark that there should be a greater difference between being in work and not being in work economically at the lowest levels of income, nor is there any doubt that such a policy will also increase the economic inequality in Denmark. But it will also increase growth. That is the message from the OECD. That is also the message from the government in which the SF has been sitting, and it is also the message from the tax ministers whom the SF has had that if you lower various taxes, for example. top tax, which as a side effect will increase economic inequality, then growth will increase. It will be possible to find SF ministers who answer if you go back and look in the archives. So unless SF has two completely different views, one when in opposition, and another when in government, then SF, at least SF's tax ministers over time, believes that the removal of various taxes that marginally increase economic inequality in Denmark will increase growth; that is SF's point of view, we have black and white. Then I think that the debate I have just had with Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten is really, really telling, and I also think I could have had that debate with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF. Because when we discuss equality and inequality in Denmark, it sounds on SF and Enhedslisten, as if inequality, economic difference, is always bad. But if you go SF and even Enhedslisten on the blade and ask whether there should be no economic difference in Danish society, whether there should be no difference between those who are in work and those who are not in work, whether there should be a difference between those who work a lot and those who work a little, whether there should be a difference between those who take a long education and those who do not take a long education, and whether it is not good that there are the differences because it motivates people to make an extra effort, then one has just said from the Enhedslisten that yes, the difference should be there. And if I ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr the same question, I think she will also answer that it is good that that difference is there. And what I call the difference here is the same as what we call the financial inequality at other times. Economic inequality is when there is a difference between people's incomes, depending on what effort they make, and the difference according to Enhedslisten is really good. Even Enhedslisten doesn't want a hundred percent equal society, and I don't suppose that SF wants a hundred percent equal society either. So what we are discussing is alone, what an acceptable economic inequality is, it is not that economic inequality is unacceptable. Economic inequality is good because it gives motivation to make an effort, and it also seems SF. But the question is whether the economic equality in Denmark has become too great and whether it is too bad to make an extra effort and whether it is too bad to make any effort at all. There we in the Liberal Alliance believe that it is too bad to make an effort in Denmark, and that is why we want a policy where there is a greater difference between those who make an effort and those who do not make an effort. And that means reducing economic equality, and we are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114023	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114026	I took note of the fact that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is not influenced to any significant extent by the IMF's or OECD's estimates that increased inequality in a society is damaging growth. Well, that kind of puzzled me because sir... Ole Birk Olesen otherwise, when it comes to top tax incentives and everything else, would like to refer to the OECD. Now, if we look at the recent writing that the OECD has made this week, we can see that they say very clearly that increased inequality is damaging growth, that you can see a direct link between the Gini coefficient and changes in it and what it means for growth, also for a country like Denmark. Denmark is also part of the OECD report. That is why I just want to ask: does it not give reason to consider whether you are right in your assumption that top tax relief is just super good? Does it not make some impression, including that of the Liberal Alliance, that the OECD is now saying that it is actually damaging growth? Is the Liberal Alliance perhaps a party that is not really interested in Denmark having a growth, because I could actually be led to believe that this is where you end up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114142	There is no doubt whatsoever that with regard to some of the inequality that one has in less developed countries, where one has a feudal-like social structure, and where some classes are held down by legislation that prevents them from getting a job, or prevents them from starting a business, it creates inequality, and that prevents economic growth. There is no doubt about that. Nor is there any doubt about the reforms that have to be implemented in Denmark in order to increase economic growth. The OECD also says that we should lower the top tax in Denmark. The OECD also says that we should ensure that it is better to work for them at the bottom of the income scale. And there is no doubt that the way to do this is reforms which, as a side effect, will increase economic inequality. So even the OECD, to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers, says that Denmark must carry out reforms which, as a consequence, as a side effect, increase economic inequality if we want higher economic growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114247	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114249	If we take as our starting point the reality in which we live, and also the most similar reports that come, including the last one from the OECD this week, we can see that it is quite clear that increased taxes for the rich do not have to harm the economy and that the increased inequality, such as in the United States, is not enough. resulting from lower top tax, harms growth. So I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Ole Birk Olesen, believes that this report is a piece of work, that it is not right and that the OECD and, for example, the OECD. The IMF has evolved into socialist think tanks, or about Mr. Ole Birk Olesen acknowledges the OECD report and is therefore considering whether the Liberal Alliance should also revise its view on top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114335	Like probably Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, I have not read the latest report in detail. I've read headlines. So when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that the report should say that growth in Denmark would be damaged if we relieved the top tax, then I cannot say exactly that it does not say, but I very much doubt that it says so. On the other hand, I do not doubt for a moment that when the OECD again makes its recommendations for the Danish economy in January next year, the OECD will repeat that we should reduce marginal taxation in Denmark in order to strengthen economic growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114414	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212114428	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you to the SF for the debate. This is a debate that divides the parties and shows the difference. It is, of course, healthy, and it is good that we sometimes have such debates. But let me say straight away that the desire for equality cannot be supported by the Conservative People's Party. We believe that the report and the publications produced, in other words the government's report on the family economy, are adequate for the level of information required in this context. Denmark is one of the countries in the West which already has the smallest income differences. That is what I explained in my question earlier. Only Norway is marginally better placed, so we have already taken due account. And it looks quite different if you look at the redistribution in the United States and Britain. Moreover, I find it strange to have such an economic debate on inequality. After all, more equality should never be an end in itself. Equal opportunities in education and in relation to health is a much more relevant debate. We are all treated in the same way, we get the same training opportunities, we get the same medical treatment, we have the same access to the hospital as others, then we are all treated together. That is what is important to ensure that we have in a modern society. There is no doubt that we can only give those opportunities, that is, that everyone has an equal right to education and that everyone has an equal right to health if we have the wealth to pay for it. Because it is expensive for a society that has to pay for equal access for everyone. And when you have high marginal taxes and wealth taxes, well, that is not the way to create wealth. That is why the common fund would benefit if taxes were reduced and better conditions for growth and prosperity were created. As far as the concept of equality in Denmark is concerned, it is such a random calculation model that is applied to it. Because we can see how to figure it out. I bought a home some time ago, and suddenly housing prices rise, and then I stay on paper more wealthy, and because the price of the dwelling rises on paper, there is greater inequality when you do the calculations. That doesn't make any sense. There's no justice in it at all. And that certainly does not mean that the weakest will feel better in our society. So this way of calculating and looking at things is completely hollow in the head. For example, if we removed the top tax, the Ministry of Finance's own figures have shown that then prosperity would increase. It may be that the technical calculation method shows that then inequality increases slightly, but in return there are 10 billion. kr. is out of work, and taxes and VAT enter the Treasury, which can pay for increased education, increased health; give all citizens equal opportunities to create the life they want; create incentives, motivation and opportunities for you to adapt as you like. It is also important from a conservative point of view that we maintain that we reward the diligent, appreciate the skilled and that there is a gain for those who are brave, those who dare to risk everything and invest in realising their dream of life. If it cannot be rewarded and if it is not so animated to exploit its potential, then more and more people lean back, and then it gives less activity, less employment and growth, and then society fades away. For example, when Mr. Lars Seier from the mention Saxo Bank, who has created a great fortune in Denmark • I hadn't named it earlier, and then someone else did that for me, but let me just use the example that traveled to Switzerland, then Denmark lost a huge tax revenue. But when the wealthiest travels out of the country, equality increases. But is it for the benefit of anyone? Does it help the weakest, the most vulnerable, those who most need a helping hand from society? After all, there are many who have wanted to be on their own; those who are trying to do what they can, but for one reason or another, mental or physical illness or other reasons, they are not able to cope with the day and the way. Of course, we must help them. We have to make sure they get a good and decent life. There must be money for that, and there will be only if there is adequate prosperity. But I believe that it will be destroyed if we pursue socialist policies. We must focus on the ball, the weakest and the most vulnerable groups, and we must give them the targeted help and support they need. If the left is given power, as it has observed, we will have higher marginal and wealth taxes, and that will result in a country with fewer jobs and fewer opportunities. And who loses in such a society where resources are shrinking? Yes, the weakest do, because the resourceful will be fine. But then there are fewer people to support those who most need help. I think it is dangerous as a politician to solve a problem that does not exist. Then you just hurt our country. Now that we are doing something important: we heard earlier in the debate that SF's former President, Villy Søvndal, has contributed to tax cuts of one kind and another, and the consequence of the tax cuts was that inequality increased, but that was argued for and why it was good and sensible and sustainable for the economy and everything else. Now, in the economic statement presented to us yesterday, we can see that after 2015 there is virtually zero growth. It's 0.1%. What does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think of this? After all, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is parliamentary support for the government. I think this is a hypocritical development in the debate we have heard where we have been accused of cutting, saving, minimising, massacre of the welfare society, and then we see the government doing exactly the same. Then there has been a debate about wage increases, i.e. whether it is not unfair that one receives higher wage increases than the other. No, it's not. It is, of course, a question of whether some people would like to work more than others, and of course it should be rewarded. If some have studied longer than others; if some have a potential and exploit it; if some are disciplined, committed, spend the time needed, and sit in the study room instead of going out into the city, then it must of course be rewarded. Some take a chance, pawn everything to realize their dreams, and succeed, of course, it must be rewarded. This must be the case, which is why it is absolutely impossible to make that comparison across a broad spectrum and ask whether it is fair that some have received a percentage higher pay increase than others. It is, of course, an individual relationship, and that is why I do not think it is relevant to a debate like this one. On the bottom line, it can be said that what is a little crucial is that we should reward the diligent and appreciate the skilled. It has to pay to take a job. It's gotta pay to take care of yourself. It is to be acknowledged and commended that you are not putting others at risk, but that you are caring for yourself. I do not think this is the result of the kind of equality required here by the SF President, the President of the Council, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115211	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115215	Sir. Mike Legarth says that greater inequality is good for Denmark and that it means that we get more growth. I'm just gonna ask sir. Mike Legarth, whether the Conservatives are not affected by a report by the OECD, which says that increased inequality is damaging growth, that we are getting fewer resources in Denmark. I just want to ask the Conservatives very simply: do you really think that it is good with lower growth in Denmark and thus increased inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115249	In the Conservative People's Party and I think that I made crystal clear we are precisely working to create growth and employment. If there are some that are going well, then we praise and acknowledge it; we take off on the hat. We want to make progress. We have no problem with someone doing better than others. As long as those who have the least do not get less, we have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115316	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115317	I also noted that the rapporteur is very concerned about the fact that it is all right for those who receive pay to receive more and more pay, and more must be paid. That is a fair enough view, so I would just like to ask whether the Conservatives believe that the stock options and wage increases that we were then given to certain bank manager during the economic crisis are an expression of their social value.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115344	I think that is completely irrelevant to this debate, but we can certainly take down a small parallel road about it: there were some private companies, i.e. banks, financial institutions... let's call them that under a cover-up that we had some remuneration structures that I got sick of looking at. After all, we have tried to correct and regulate this in the conciliation circle a little harder. But I feel that how private money is distributed among their employees is not something I want to interfere with, unless there is a basic regulation that we can take care of, and we have done so. In addition, however, and this is what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is asking about, it is so reasonable that a director generally gets a wage increase on, I heard an example earlier on, over 20%.? Yes, there may be a lot of good arguments for that. There is no doubt that we can argue in favour of this. There is no problem at all in that. If he is better and better, etc. etc., that's excellent. As long as it does not all affect those who have the least, I see no problem in the fact that there are some who rise from the intermediate level.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115452	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212115505	Thank you very much and thank you very much to the Danish Parliament's parties for a very good debate. I think it is important that we deal with what policies we have to put in place, when inequality has been increasing over the last 30 years, what we will do if we want to ensure equality and perhaps also bring it to light, that there are also parties that think it is quite right that inequality is increasing, because then the Danes know what they have to deal with; that makes it easier. I think I am lucky enough to live in a country that has some qualities that make us one of the world's best societies. We have a strong cohesion, we have confidence in each other and trust in the institutions, we are the least corrupt country in the world, and we are proclaimed year after year as one of the happiest people in the world. This is because we are among the world's most equal countries. Equality creates good societies, equal societies are good places for children to grow up. Equal societies are doing well financially. But, as I said, equality is challenged. The inequality has increased in Denmark over the past 30 years. This development is not due to random fluctuations, on the contrary. There are some strong mechanisms in our society that are pulling towards greater inequality, and if we compare ourselves with the countries that look like Denmark, then inequality is also increasing there. In Sweden, inequality has increased twice as fast as in Denmark, and here I am starting from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior's own figures. That is why I also find it interesting that the Social Democratic Party clearly said that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior already has forecasts of what it will look like with the inequality by 2020. We shall then ask about this during the committee procedure. Of course, we expect the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior to present the calculations and assessments of how the inequality in Denmark looks, so that we can already act as regards the policies that need to be implemented. For that was precisely the idea of making an explanation, namely to get more knowledge of how inequality might grow and what we can do to prevent it from happening in the future. I am glad that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior so focused on the fact that it makes sense to look at the fact that inequality should not increase in Denmark. I think that we should do something about it and already look at the consequences, because that is not something we can only read in a spreadsheet. We really meet as politicians, all of us, I believe, the inequality every day. I would like to try to give an example which shows how great differences in living conditions we can find in Denmark. At one end of the equality scale, if you can make a scale, we have the single mother with two children, and she has a cleaning job. Every day, she makes a difference. At least I think it's nice to get to work, and it's clean, but her salary isn't in proportion to the effort she's making. And she's always walking around fearing she'll be fired because she's tried that before. She also finds that the jobs no longer hang on the trees, and she knows that she only has 2 years on cash benefits to find a new job, otherwise her apartment will go. There are some who say that it is hardly worthwhile for her to work, but she knows that she cannot afford to lose her job, despite the fact that her salary has not increased in the last ten years. Her eldest daughter has a hard time getting by in school, and she cannot help her with her homework. She fears that the daughter saw, as so many other children of unskilled, end up without an education. The youngest daughter has easier access to the numbers and gets good help from the school's homework cafes. It was one of the good elements of the primary school reform. Perhaps she ends up with a good education, and the mother can then enjoy living in a country where education is free of charge. She gets insecure when bourgeois politicians talk about user fees for medical care and education. At the other end of the equation, we have the bank manager. He works hard, too, I acknowledge. But deep down, I think he knows he didn't create anything of value in the '00s when he helped run a small bank down, a bank that was only saved because of the many state bank packages. He lost his job, but the golden handshake he received corresponded to the daily allowance for several years, which meant that he did not need any allowance either. On top of that, he quickly got himself a new job, where the otherwise excellent salary increased by a further 25%. I have a feeling he's a smart man. So unlike some of his colleagues, he has some doubts as to whether he is really worth all that money. He would like the top tax to be reduced, but he would neither want nor be able to work more than he does, and therefore it would have no impact on his ability to work. He is not without a social conscience, and he sees with concern that there are too many people in our society who are having a really difficult time. His two children are doing well in school. He and his wife also have the resources to help with his homework when it's a little difficult, although there's something called a homework café over at school. He'll have time for that, because they'll get help both for cleaning and cooking. After all, it is not certain that children will become bank managers, but lawyers, doctors or civil engineers are certainly opportunities for them. So different are the living conditions in today's Denmark. People in the top and bottom of society have very different opportunities to create the life they dream of. That difference is growing. In Sweden, inequality has increased considerably more than in Denmark, and this should give rise to reflection. There are some things that should make the alarm bells ring here at Christiansborg. Firstly, we see an international increase in the spread of wages. The minimum wages have deteriorated. At home, it is rather a stagnation of the lowest wages, and one of the reasons is probably the pressure from the labour force from other EU countries. That is why the fight against social dumping is important, and that is why it is good that we prioritise it in the financial law of the year. At the other end of the pay scale, we see continued wage increases, not least for the best paid. You can talk about extreme wages • not as extreme as abroad, but still. Several million kroner in annual salary and on top of the favorable bonus schemes and golden handshakes. We hear a lot about the fact that high wages are a problem for competitiveness. Why, then, do we accept the growth that we see in wages at the absolute top? Secondly, we see a development in wealth and wealth income. In all countries, wealth is very unevenly distributed, more unevenly than income. At the same time, at least for a number of years, wealth and wealth incomes have grown faster than wages and incomes in general. This means that you earn more money from inheriting a fortune, i.e. the added value in it than the electrician, the SOSU assistant or the cleaning assistant does by going to work every day. And it certainly has value for society that they do it. So the fact that the wealth is so unevenly distributed draws in the direction of making the distribution of income more uneven, also in Denmark. The vast majority have a fortune of less than 1 million. kr. Only the richest tenth has a larger fortune, but for the richest one percent the figure is almost 8 million. kr. The figures would be different if you included pension assets, but it would still be the case, even if you included pension assets, that at one end we would find many Danes without wealth and at the other end, at the top, a number of wealthy Danes. I think it is important to clarify whether this development is continuing and what it means in terms of distribution. One of the problems with the imbalance in the distribution of wealth is that it has consequences for democracy. What are we going to do about it? What, then, is SF going to do in terms of equality? Indeed, most, especially the bourgeois parties, are concerned with equal opportunities. The problem is that they talk about formal equal opportunities. It is important, but it is not enough. There is a big difference between the children's opportunities. Parents' income, education and housing conditions are still crucial to children's opportunities in life. That is why I am also pleased that the government basis which the SF helped to create in 2011 and which is still in force, underlines the fact that there is talk of real equality of opportunity and not formal equality of opportunity, because that is a prerequisite. Unfortunately, it is an illusion that we can create completely equal opportunities, because we cannot do so. And that's why you don't get away from luck. Who draws the lucky question at the exam? Who gets the job right under the nose of the other one? Who gets the really good caseworker in the municipality? We will never achieve equality by means of equal opportunities alone. That is why there is also a need for redistribution through a social security network in the form of public services, through a tax system and through free access to key welfare services. Because it means more to the single cleaning assistant that education and health are free of charge than it means for the director. Some one third of our consumption is distributed more or less equally among citizens in the form of public welfare benefits. Therefore, zero growth, as the Left at the head of the bourgeois suggests, would also contribute to a further increase in inequality. Whatever one thinks of equality and inequality, we simply do not know enough about how inequality will develop, what consequences increasing inequality has on how citizens feel in Denmark, and what methods and policies can best contribute to increasing equality. It is certainly a political project that the SF is behind. We want to increase equality in Denmark. We would like to see all this clarified. That is why we have tabled this proposal. We want an explanation of the nature of equality in Denmark, to gain more knowledge, so we have a factual basis to discuss from. We believe that this is best illustrated by an independent committee of experts with broad and professional competences and its own secretariat, which can work independently of the government and the staff. I think we owe the Danes a serious study of what inequality does to our social model, which we must safeguard. I note that the government welcomes this, but does not think it is necessary. I am therefore going to put a number of questions in committee so that we can bring all these facts into the light, if it is now the case that the government already has forecasts of what it looks like in 2020 and how inequality is growing, as the Socialist rapporteur pointed out. Of course, I will take advantage of that. I am pleased that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal and I do not think it is a surprise that the bourgeois parties almost pay tribute to the inequality in Denmark. I think it is disastrous for the project we have with the Danish model, but it is not surprising.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120528	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120531	Thank you. Should the accident be out and Pia Olsen Dyhr lose her job as a parliamentarian, I would not recommend her to take up a career as a socialist writer. On the contrary, I think a trip to the political confessional is appropriate. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said in her speech that one was proud of the government basis. My question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is this: when you were in government, you failed to write the Gini coefficient, which in the resolution means so much, into the government base. At the same time, I have the article that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr skilfully failed to answer questions about, when we last debated, from 18 January 2012, when then President of the party. Villy Søvndal replied to the question as to why the Gini coefficient is not used as a unit of measurement in the context of the tax reform that has just been adopted: Well, one can always question which method is used as SFs to measure equality. It is interesting, then, that in such a short period of time the SF has fundamentally changed its attitude to how to measure the evolution of equality in society. It seems that the SF has had one face on as a responsible governing party and has now suddenly taken a completely different political line. At the same time, I would like to reject accusations that the Left regards inequality as an objective in itself. We want growth, and inequality is sometimes a consequence of progress in society. But I have to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: why did the SF not write the Gini coefficient into the government base if it was so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120701	I could not reply to that about the article with Villy Søvndal, because it was the rapporteur's last brief remark, and I could not reply after the rapporteur had spoken, because of course I am complying with the rules of the Folketing, but I would like to reply now. SF has always said that the Gini coefficient cannot do it alone. We cannot measure whether the inequality or similarity in Denmark increases or falls on the basis of the Gini coefficient. That kind of makes sense. Why else should we table a motion for a resolution in which we believe that we need to look at more parameters? That is precisely because the Gini coefficient is not adequate. When Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt says that the Left believes that a consequence of the growth of society has increased inequality and that it has to be lived with at times, so I think it is time for the Left to discover the OECD's latest report, which states very clearly that if you want growth in a society and it could be useful in Danish society, when we now see that growth figures are 0.7 per cent. For 2014 if you want a boost to growth, you have to increase equality. And here the OECD uses the Gini coefficient, not the SF, and that is what is referred to when one says that if the Gini coefficient increases by one point, according to OECD, then the growth of society is also significantly increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120820	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120821	I am, in a sense, deeply fascinated by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who suddenly gives so much impact to the OECD. I also hope that the OECD's long-standing recommendation that the Danish tax system should be reformed in order to get more out of work and that the top tax should be redistributed will also impress the SF's acting chairman equally. However, government figures show that the percentage of taxpayers paying the most in taxes contributes 51 billion. kr. Every year, 102,000 public employees, all daily allowances, cash benefits and sickness benefits are financed. If one percent suddenly disappeared, equality would become greater, but Danish society poorer. I guess it also gives food for thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212120905	It gives food for thought, which is why the SF has also been concerned about the fact that we are among other things. working together on tax with our neighbouring countries to prevent tax havens. I still haven't understood why the Left thinks it's okay to move money into tax havens around the world. SF has been very concerned: Can we close holes? SF's various tax ministers have so much been in search of closing gaps in tax legislation after a bourgeois government, otherwise it will be a competitive parameter that you can steal the tax base from other countries. I do not know how many of those present in the Chamber today who heard Thomas Piketty in the Black Diamond last night, but he just pointed out that the question of Luxembourg and what happened to Luxembourg is that Luxembourg has just gained expertise in stealing the tax base of its neighbouring countries. We disagree with that. That is why we are willing to close tax holes, and we are therefore pleased that we, together with the government and the Danish People's Party, can now make a package against tax havens. I simply do not agree with the Left when it is said that increased inequality creates growth. We can see that it is equality that creates growth. We can see that in the OECD report, we can see that in the IMF, and I do not think that, last time I checked it, they had turned into socialist think tanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121021	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121025	The SF has, of course, had three tax ministers during this parliamentary term, and I believe that all three of them have answered several times even questions about what will happen to the prosperity of society if you lower or remove the top tax. A reply was given by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, when he was Minister of Taxation where he was asked: What will happen if you lower the top tax by 1%, i.e. not a percentage point, but 1%. out of the one hundred percent that top tax is when it's drunk? The answer was that then Danish society would be 90 million. kr. richer, that is, that growth would increase, so that Danish society would be 90 million. kr. richer by so little a reduction in the top tax. Doesn't SF mean that anymore? After the SF has resigned from the government, does the SF no longer believe that Danish society will become richer by lowering the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121123	I note that our tax ministers have said so. So does the Ministry of Finance. If you ask a question tomorrow, the Ministry of Finance will most likely say that top tax incentives will also benefit growth. But I also think that we should be influenced by international assessments and the way in which we can now see what inequality means around the world, namely that it actually harms growth. The OECD report clearly shows this, and they also write that they do not see that increased taxes for the richest will not necessarily harm growth • I think that is the correct wording, now I must be quite correct. I think that this shows that there is a paradigm shift in the view of top tax relief, and I think that we should also consider whether to influence the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121214	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121216	Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refer to a single point in the OECD report which says that Denmark will become a poorer country if the top tax is lowered?
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121228	No, I can't, because there's nothing about the top tax, but there's something about the tax. It says that increased taxes will not necessarily harm growth in Denmark, and I think this is very thought-provoking, because it is very contrary to what the OECD has said over many years. The prerequisite for Denmark being so strong a society is that people have access to education, they have access to health and that there is also some form of mobility. So I think it looks good in Denmark, but I would also like to make sure that it is forward-looking, and that is what this debate is all about, namely how we ensure that inequality does not go completely wrong, as has happened in Sweden, which some people tend to highlight as the example of pearl on how well things can go when taxes are lowered. But it also has some consequences for inequality, and it has had that in Sweden. I think we should learn from this in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121313	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who are the President and not the President of the Socialist People's Party, but who must nevertheless try to avoid direct indictment in Parliament's debates. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141212121344	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held on Tuesday, 16 December 2014, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda shown on the Danish Parliament's website and to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
