ParlaMint-DK_20141010100005	The meeting is open. Today, Friday 10 October 2014, there is the following review: Per Clausen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on experiments on bottom deductions and progressive tax on energy and water). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100037	The debate is open. And the first is the rapporteur for the Left, Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100108	In July a broad majority in the Folketing concluded an agreement which abolished the so-called fuel tax. I have to say that the fact that the fuel tax does not materialise, indeed we in the Left think that this is a very good idea, because it was an extremely bureaucratic tax and it must also be said that it was met with extreme resistance. And there was really good reason for that. That would be a tax that would have to be levied by up to 30,000 companies. Apart from VAT, there is no tax levied by so many companies. The clarification of the ideas on the fuel tax, on what was taxable and what was not, was quite absurd. I think most people here know some of the most absurd examples: wooden rafts had to be taxed unless one could now prove that a fence of them had been built and took pictures of it. And if you bought straw for your hamster or for your horse, it would have to be taxed unless you bought at least 8 tonnes at a time. We on the Left were therefore extremely critical when the bill on the burning tax had been in consultation, and when the government finally came to its senses and wanted to abolish the burning tax, yes, it was sweet music in our ears. In the past, a security of supply tax on fossil fuels was also introduced. It is also being abolished and there are other taxes on energy, which are also being reduced compared to the level before 2010. This means that more than 5 billion will be relaxed. kr., and that the Danes and companies avoid a lot of bureaucracy and trouble, and that is quite reasonable. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the funding of the proposal is by no means as offensive as we in the Left would have liked. On the left side, we thought it made more sense to hold back the growing work in the world's largest public sector. The government was in no way prepared to do anything about this, so the government's proposal was that the bottom tax should be increased by 0.4 percentage points. On the left side, we thought it was quite bad funding and, as I said, we would have liked funding to have been found by reducing growth in the world's largest public sector. We failed, but we managed to reduce the increase to 0.28 percentage points in the bottom tax and a reduction in the green cheque. It should then be said that when the reality was that the burning tax was as cumbersome and bureaucratic as was planned, this change actually means that the Danes will get a little more money between their hands than if the security of supply tax had been implemented as planned. The bill also translates part of the growth agreement that lowers the PRS tax. It will ease by 1.7 billion. kr. for industry to ensure the competitiveness of enterprises. Again, the level of ambition of the Left was higher, but it was as far as we could draw the government. For it was important for the Left that we did something about the high energy taxes, but, as I said, the level of ambition on the Left was higher. The proposal also contains some adjustments and changes in the taxation of bio-oils and renewable energy products. The government is proposing the changes because the European Commission believes that there are problems with the current rules in relation to EU law. On the left side, we must make it clear that we believe that there should be full openness about the background and the dialogue that the government has had with the Commission, so we naturally expect the tax minister, in connection with the work of the committee, to give full insight to the Tax Committee into what has been going on in this matter. What has the Commission said to Denmark? What has the government answered? For anyone who has read the hearing answer can see that it is certainly not unproblematic. I think that some of the changes that are being proposed can be asked: I think there are some who will say about it now, not just completely, but in some way in harmony with the government's resource strategy. There are issues that are rightly raised in relation to whether it is better now to burn wood waste, paper etc. We expect the Minister to clarify this. I have to say that on the Left side we are very much in favour of solutions which correct some of the shortcomings identified by the hearings. There should be no doubt about that. Finally, I would like to point out that we in the Left are also concerned about the criticism of the hearings on the phasing-in of the increase in the tax on cigarillos. We think that the phasing-in could be more appropriate, and we hope that the government will listen to this as well. So, of course, we are satisfied that the fuel tax does not materialise. It would be a bureaucratic monster that had been created. Of course, we stand by the agreements we have made in the Left, but we think that the government could have gone further in terms of finding funding that had been more growth-oriented than it has succeeded in getting it, but, after all, we welcome the fact that we took the government in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100701	Thank you. There has been a first speaker on a brief note, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100709	The left was very critical of the fuel tax, says Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it was strange that it was invented in February 2011. After all, the fuel tax was part of the Energy Strategy 2050... delivered by the VK Government in February 2011. If you were very critical of the fuel tax, it was also strange that an agreement was reached with the current government in spring 2012 to introduce the fuel tax. However, it is true that when the media discovered that there was going to be a tax on fireplaces, the Left did as if it were very critical of what one had proposed and what one had agreed with the government itself to implement. It was just a historical detail. Then there is the fact that we now feel obliged to raise the base tax in order to finance the loss of income that comes when we do not implement the security of supply tax. That wasn't necessary. If you had not made an energy agreement that increases the consumption of public money, among other things. For subsidies to solar cells and household wind turbines, there was no need to raise the base tax now in order to finance the cancellation of the security of supply tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100822	I have the approach to reality that you can have many interesting discussions about what might possibly be interesting and what might possibly make sense, and I firmly believe that arguments could be constructed as to why a security of supply tax could theoretically make sense. But I am also of the opinion, as a politician, that one's views must be dealt with in relation to reality, and I just have to say that the reality of the security of supply tax, excuse me, was shimmeringly crazy. I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows some of those extreme examples where anyone could tell themselves that it didn't make any sense, and there I am so arranged that I actually listen to it. There I have to say, okay, if it was the consequence of something that might, in theory, make sense, then it is always good to listen to reality; I am so practical. What, sir? Ole Birk Olesen then thinks about the whole financing of the energy agreement and that he believes that the bill is too large is well known; it was in this way the main task of the Left to lower the price of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100939	The rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010100942	It is clear that, when it appeared in the press that there was to be a charge on fireplaces, regardless, because it had not yet emerged that there would be a lot of bureaucracy associated with it, the Left simply said that it was against a levy on the wood that people put in their wood stoves. But the Left itself had proposed this at the time in the government. The Left itself had agreed with the new government, so of course the Left was not against a charge on fireplaces, because it was the Left's own idea. Then there was also plenty of bureaucracy. However, the essential thing is that the Left raises a tax to finance increased public consumption on subsidies to solar cells and household wind turbines. That is what the Left is adding votes to here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101027	Well, I would like to repeat that when reality hits theoretical proposals, one can choose to say that it does not matter or one can choose to act on it, and we did so on the Left side. Because we thought that the fuel tax, in the way the government had drafted it, was contrary to any logic, and I am therefore pleased that the fuel tax does not materialise. I understand that the Liberal Alliance is opposed to the energy agreement we made in 2012. I just want to emphasise once again that because the Left joined the Energy Agreement in 2012, the bill for the Danes was 2 billion. kr. lower. Of course, you could have crossed your arms and said that we didn't want to be in it, but then the Danes had had a bill that was 2 billion. kr. bigger. But that is not how we see things in the Left, we took co-responsibility and we lowered the price for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101122	Thank you. Then it is the next for a brief comment, Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101126	Now I think it's boring that sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen makes the VK Government's energy and climate plan a theoretical project. I saw it as a concrete plan presented by the government, in which the security of supply tax was an essential element. Is there any other element in the plans of the Left, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen will call theoretical projects that will be changed when they meet with reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101153	If sir... Per Clausen had foreseen that we would have a discussion on whether to tax straw that people use for their hamsters or for their horse, Mr. Per Clausen a little more out in the shoes than I was, I admit. We were told that unless you bought 8 tonnes at a time, there was a tax on it. But straw for a horse is not just something you take off the shelves of a farmer; it was such a thing that came in plastic packs of such 5-10 kg size, cleaned of impurities and added eucalyptus scent. That is why nobody wanted to burn it off, so it was an issue which we had completely misunderstood on the Left side. I just have to say that I don't see the world that way, and I sort of relate to the realities I'm being presented with. In fact, I had imagined that sir... Per Clausen considered that the implementation of a security of supply tax would contain so much bureaucracy and trouble and would have been removed from any logic that anyone could see that it had to not be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101312	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101313	Now I think, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen jumps a little from tue to tue, but it may also be necessary when you have to run from what you have previously meant. But Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen cannot think that, when it proposed the introduction of security of supply tax, the Left was unaware that it was a fuel tax. We cannot have been unaware of this, and therefore we cannot have been opposed to it when we tabled the proposal ourselves. That is what I simply do not understand, i.e. how Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and Left like described as some who are against this here with a charge on firewood when you have proposed it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101347	I just have to say that I have the approach to politics that theoretical considerations and models and such things may be exciting enough, but in my optics it just needs to be measured by what the real consequence of that is. And we saw the real consequence of the burning tax only when the government sent the bill into consultation. I don't know if sir. Per Clausen read all the many, many consultation answers that we received it was crazy. And I said in my rapporteur's speech that it was up to 30,000 companies to register to pay fuel tax; that is to say, the only thing that had to be run around collecting into the forest without having to pay fuel tax was such a broken twig. And there I just have the approach to politics that if reality shows that something possibly theoretical, on paper, might look reasonable, then I choose to listen to reality. That is why I think it is quite reasonable that the burning tax is only something that can be read about in the history books.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Jens Joel for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101502	Thank you. After all, it is always a pleasure to be allowed to come to the finest platform in the country and talk about a tax proposal. One of the ways you can recognize it is that there are real, very many different elements and that it is extremely technical. This is something that you appreciate when you get over from the energy and climate area. But that's why I'm going to focus a little on some of the things that I think are beyond that, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has examined the various elements of the proposal. It is, to me, and with socialist spectacles, first and last, a question of two things: that with this proposal we will have some reductions in energy taxation that are targeted at the business community. This is something we do on the basis that we want to ensure that it is easier to have production jobs and that this gives you a better opportunity to do business in Denmark. And there is, of course, the major element in the abolition of the security of supply tax, which has proved to be very bureaucratic and difficult to implement. When you have to make a change, when you have to abolish a tax you had otherwise agreed, you also have to find some funding. And in this situation, as has rightly been described, we have chosen to raise the base tax marginally, and we have chosen to reduce the green cheque. And, of course, what is it like when you reduce the green cheque, which, you might say, is put in the world to help those in households who have the most difficulty in paying energy taxes? That is why, as a Social Democrat, it is of course important for me that the government has found a model, where neither those who earn the least nor those who earn the most are disadvantaged overall and where all the family types we have calculated get more from the fact that the tax disappears than it costs with the marginal tax increase they are hit by, or the green cheque. In this way, I think it can be said that it is neutral in terms of distribution, because nobody is being put at a disadvantage, even though, of course, the government's proposal did not provide for it to be the green cheque that financed it. So I hope we can land this. I think it has been a long and rather heated debate. I may also think that it has sometimes been less objective than one might have wanted, but I hope that now, with a relatively broad majority, we can put this issue in the grave, so that we do not have to go round and bicker or find strange examples of some of the problems which this tax, which had otherwise been agreed before the change of government, seems to create in the face of reality, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentioned and, frankly, I have to say, the test of most of the laws in here. I wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101802	Sir. Jens Joel says nobody's gonna be worse off by this. Depends on where you put the starting line. For it is clear that when you abolish the security of supply tax with this and then let it pay for some other tax increases, nobody is put at a disadvantage in relation to it. However, in relation to the situation before the security of supply tax, before the energy agreement was agreed in 2012, when the security of supply tax was agreed, there is no doubt that people with low incomes, people with middle incomes, people with high incomes are put at a disadvantage by this bill than before the government entered into and made an energy agreement with the Left and Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten. People are getting a tax increase as a result of the 2012 Energy Agreement, and it is this tax increase that we are today dealing with here in the Danish Parliament, which will result in all people, including those with low incomes, being harder on it than they did before the government stepped in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010101910	I fully understand that the Liberal Alliance does not actually recognise climate change in some cases, or at least does not think it is something that we should do something about in this way. I also understand that the Liberal Alliance was not included in the energy agreement. There are very many other reasons why we have chosen, by a broad majority in the Folketing, to make an energy agreement, not just because we need security of supply, and because, of course, we also have to take responsibility for the future of the planet, and then because there are a great many jobs in having the green leadership that we have in the world right now. So, yes, it is true that when we are fully on the targets of the green transition that the government has set itself at the head of the • and, by the way, we are some of the best in the world, which can not only be read in the fine piece of paper, but also in the jobs we create out there; it is true that when it is to be financed, we are, of course, also on the goal of finding that funding. So if sir... Ole Birk Olesen will discuss whether the energy agreement is a good idea for society or not, so I would be happy to take that discussion, but otherwise we will just have to say that we are financing part of the energy agreement which, incidentally, I think benefits Danish society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102018	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102019	My question made it quite clear what I wanted to discuss. It was sir. Jens Joel's claim that no one will be put at a disadvantage. That's not what Mr. Jens Joel wanted to answer, but that's another matter. Now, sir. Jens Joel, another attempt. Is it true that people with low incomes are put at a disadvantage than when the government stepped in because the government with the other parties in the Folketing except the Liberal Alliance has agreed that they have to pay more in bottom taxes and electricity taxes etc. in order to finance the 2012 Energy Agreement and that this is what we are dealing with today, namely that people have to pay more as a result of the 2012 Energy Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102059	It is true that this helps to finance the energy agreement. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen: Does that make it worse? It depends on whether you think of people in this society as someone who only pays taxes. I also regard those who pay taxes or taxes as someone who receives help in the hospital, or someone who gets a job, because we are making a green transition that is ambitious. That's why I think it's a flabby nonsense. The Minister of Taxation has a very strong role to play in getting the funding that we pay our society with, and that is why every time the tax minister is in this Chamber, he could be attacked for the fact that he now wants money. That is often the task of the Minister of Taxation. That is why it is not possible to discuss it separately from whether or not what the money is spent on is sensible. That is what we in the Socialist Group think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more inscriptions for short remarks. Next in the series of speeches, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102158	This bill is, overall, about the roll-back of the security of supply tax, a reduction in the PRS tax. For this, there are some financing elements, among others. an increase in the base tax and the slanted tax ceiling, a reduction in the green cheque and tax increases on cigarillos, all of which are relatively broad agreements in the Danish Parliament, agreements that we in the Danish People's Party are included in. So, of course, we can support this proposal. The first element I would like to mention is the security of supply tax, which is being rolled back, which we think is very positive. The introduction of the tax would have resulted in high administrative costs both for ordinary citizens and for companies, as the tax on renewable fuels was extremely complex. The rapporteur of the Left has, of course, among other things. mentioned that straw could be taxed for horses and hamsters. I have also heard talk about the fact that Christmas trees should soon be taxed, because people could have the nerve to want to burn their Christmas tree after Christmas Eve and thereby get warm out of it. I do not know whether it was covered, but there was at least a lot of rumours about what could be covered and what could not be covered and, frankly, it did not look pretty. That is why I think it would make sense for us to roll it back now. So I think it is a good thing that a settlement has been reached on that part. The abolition is then financed by an increase of 0.28% in the base tax. and by lowering the green check from 1.300 DKK. for 875 kroner. in 2020. These are financing elements which I believe most Danes will not find positive, but it must also be said that when we have to find such large sums as are being done away with a security of supply tax, it is therefore difficult to find sources of funding which do not affect anyone. But it can be said, after all, that the socio-economic benefits are reduced in terms of behavioural effects, i.e. distortion effects when choosing this source of funding. As Mr. Jens Joel also said, there's actually a small plus when you look at the distributional consequences. If you take the income deciles from 1 to 10, you'll see that there's a plus over the spectrum. After all, it is positive if you have to choose to find a source of funding which, as I said, is not easy to find when it is such a large sum. There's also a lot from this growth package where there's a 13.2 billion relief around the PSO tax. kr. together towards 2020, which we in the Danish People's Party also think is incredibly positive. After all, we have always said that if we are to create better framework conditions for companies and try to grow in Denmark, we believe that some of what we are looking at is important, the lower energy taxes. This is something that really pushes production companies in Denmark and makes you have a worse competitive situation than you do in foreign companies. So we also think it is a good thing that this production company is targeted, but I must also say that there are still problems in other sectors which are also affected by a very high PSO tax. So this is not something we will stop looking at here, but it is quite positive that one step is taken after all. Then there are the levies on cigarillos, which are being reduced so that the incentive to smoke cigarillos is reduced compared to smoking cigarettes. The sales of these cigarillos have increased significantly over the last few years: 23%. in 2012, 45%. in 2013. The increase in sales may be assumed to be due to the tax differential between the two groups of products. So we in the Danish People's Party think that it is good to have a harmonisation of taxes between cigarettes and cigarillos. One may well disagree in the Folketing about where the level should be on the tax on cigarettes, but most people should agree that it is good that you get an alignment of two such products. As the increase we are getting at once is quite severe, we may well have a fear that it will give some extra border trade. It's this ketchup effect that we often talk about. After all, you go from a price of 17 kroner. For 34 kroner, which is quite a lot. So we will try to delve into the committee's work whether it might be possible to do another gradual phasing-in in order not to have the huge shock effect of the increase. But all in all I can sum up and say, as I also said at the beginning, that we are in the agreement on these things, so the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102605	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102611	After all, the important thing here is that this draft law should finance the energy agreement of 2012. You need to collect more taxes to finance the 2012 Energy Agreement in which the Danish People's Party participates. This means that we are now raising the tax, the base tax, for example. the pensioners for whom the Danish People's Party claims to be a defender. You raise the electricity tax for pensioners and you raise the tax on the cigarillos that pensioners smoke. How does this relate to the Danish People's Party? Why is it more important for the Danish People's Party to implement an energy agreement with increased subsidies for solar cells and household wind turbines than it is to protect pensioners from tax increases in bottom tax, electricity tax and tax on cigarillos?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102705	I don't think it's a secret to anyone in Denmark that when you made the energy agreement, it became more expensive to be a Dane in some areas because you had to finance this energy agreement. But that is not the agreement we are discussing today. After all, it is the security of supply tax where you could see that reality hit. As Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen also said, you could see that there were a lot of inappropriate things in it. And then it is only common sense for the Folketing to address that issue and say: OK, that was not appropriate, so how can we do it differently? Then another source of funding has been found which actually reduces the tax, reward, or whatever you might call it, which affects citizens. That is what we are dealing with today. After all, we are not discussing an energy agreement that I know the Liberal Alliance is against. We are dealing with one element here, namely the supply tax, the PRS tax, and some other energy sources, which are either subject to tax or raised. That's what's really important, isn't it? And then I think that this source of funding will, after all, give the Danes a better free amount, that is to say, get more money between their hands, compared to what they would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102802	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102804	We are certainly discussing the 2012 Energy Agreement today. It is the 2012 Energy Agreement that is the reason why a majority in the Folketing today will declare that they will raise these taxes. The 2012 Energy Agreement increased public consumption, public subsidies for solar cells and household wind turbines. That money was to be found, and a new security of supply tax was then decided. In the meantime, this security of supply tax has been regretted, and now, instead, the money for the 2012 energy agreement will be collected through higher bottom tax, higher electricity tax and higher cigarillos tax. The Danish People's Party is in favour of this. Danish People's Party votes for increased taxes on pensioners in Denmark to finance the energy agreement from 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102853	I do not think it is a secret that, when we were in the negotiations to find out how to finance the reduction of this tax, we saw, in the Danish People's Party, that some of the energy agreement had been rolled back. That's what it was supposed to fund. But there is a broad circle of conciliation around this in the Folketing, where you need a unity, and I think it is a good thing that there is a broad circle of conciliation on such things as Denmark's energy sources in the future. There we have to recognise that we are in a conciliation circle, which the Liberal Alliance does not often want to do; they would rather sit on the sidelines and complain. It's easier, too. Sometimes there are parties in the Folketing that have to take responsibility for some things, and now we take responsibility for the fact that a tax that you could see was deeply damaging to both citizens and companies, you get rolled back and rolled back in a way that makes citizens actually get more money between their hands, compared to what they would otherwise have with this bill. I think that is positive, in isolation, as far as this proposal is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more sign-ins. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010102952	Thank you. For the sake of companies, for the sake of citizens, yes, for the sake of the Danish economy, it is quite reasonable that we should now place the security of supply tax at rest. I am glad that this reduces the energy costs of companies. I must also say, for the sake of good order, that this is not just for the sake of companies and for the sake of the economy, but also for the sake of the green transition. Our opportunities for growth and welfare depend to a large extent on the competitiveness of companies. That is why it is important that we can ensure attractive and proper conditions for our business community. Now other rapporteurs have given some examples of what absurd situations would arise for citizens and consumers if it were that the security of supply tax would have been implemented, and I am not going to entertain those examples any more; they speak for themselves. However, abolishing the security of supply tax is not free of charge. To make the money fit, we've had to give the taxes up. Of course, it is not optimal in the ideal world, but it is a necessary evil to get rid of the security of supply tax and to ensure that the green transition and energy agreement are still on track. Overall, I think we have found a quite reasonable solution, and we tend to like such sensible solutions in the Radical Left. That is why the Radical Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103146	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103150	The Radical Left has an advert that says: "We are listening. Also for economists. ▪ It sounds wise to listen to economists, they are the ones who know about economics, and if you want to manage the economy wisely, you should listen to economists. The economic wise men in Denmark represent the highest expertise in the economy. You have repeatedly criticised the energy policy pursued in Denmark. It is too expensive, it is wrong, it is simply mistaken. Nevertheless, the government and the Radical Left continue with the 2012 Energy Agreement, which this bill is intended to finance, along the same lines as the economic wise men have repeatedly criticised. Is it correct to understand that in energy policy the Radical Left does not listen to economists?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103251	Of course we are listening to economists, including when it comes to energy policy. But sometimes we also have to move forward, in other words, set targets, ambitious targets, for energy policy. And, of course, there are some things we can discuss whether to adjust or calibrate or to do differently, and in this way the economists' index finger or their input is always welcome and we listen to them. But may I also remind the questioner that we are actually benefiting from the green transition. We can also see that our exports of green technology are actually increasing faster than exports in general. In other words, the fact that Denmark is, so to speak, a leading and wholehearted participant in this area in relation to the green transition also contributes to gearing our economy in a competition where the environment plays a greater role and where climate plays a greater role. So I disagree with that very either-or-consideration, which I think the questioner is a little up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103402	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103404	The argument, too, as Mr. Nadeem Farooq here uses, in other words that in some way it should be in favour of Danish economy and growth and companies, that the government imposes severe restrictions on companies in relation to energy and puts heavy taxes on, because it should give us a leading position in the international market for green technology, reject the economic wise men in their reports. They say that if there had to be money to invest in this area, private investors would do so on their own. And there are no expectations that politicians are able to invest money properly in return, because if they were so good at it, they would probably not be politicians, but instead private investors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103449	I actually think there's a really good point in that too. Well, it's not like I'm saying that we can tax ourselves out of everything or tax ourselves into a leading position, and it's always a discussion in relation to some of these taxes. I myself am not particularly happy with just raising taxes, and I think the questioner is also aware of that. But I believe that we must always find a so-called holistic solution, that is. a solution where we think different things together and where taxation is, of course, part of it. I would also like to say, if you are going to talk about listening to economists, that I would almost urge the questioner to go back to the board and write 100 times: the Liberal Alliance will now listen to economists. Because it is the case that economists have actually said that what we have done here in raising personal taxes is less distorting, and that is better for the economy than if we had allowed the security of supply tax to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010103557	Thank you for the floor. I am here today instead of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is SF's tax rapporteur, and I am here with a certain amount of knowledge of the energy side. Others have said what the proposal is about: the roll-back of the security of supply tax, the facilitation of the PSO tax for business and the financing of it, the removal of a way of dealing with the economic challenge in order to resolve it in a different way. Even if I should not say so, I would nevertheless say that the beauty of the security of supply tax, if anyone could see any beauty about it, was that we actually just as quietly began the process of putting electricity and heat on an equal footing with actually bringing heat. Now we are abolishing it because it is too bureaucratic. That is why we are abolishing it, it is not because we do not have to do it in the long term, because when you look at it with the long-term glasses, you have to go somewhere between 2020 and 2030, where you have to look at that balance. For between 2020 and 2030, we will have reached the point where our renewable energy production is by far the most extensive part of our electricity production. I mean, our electricity production is already over 50%. in 2020, which means that the argument for taxing electricity so hard in relation to heat is not there, and that is why it makes sense to strike a balance. Well, we are abolishing it now because it is too bureaucratic and impossible, and I do not think the European Union seems to be playing along. It was like they piled us up with bureaucracy. So we are abolishing it now, and I think we should. What has then been a challenge in the negotiations is, of course, that we had a certain social balance in the previous financing model, and we have then fought about that in the conciliation circle here, which is broad. But that does not mean that there has been no political discussion. We've agreed on something. What has been crucial for the SF is that the social balance that was before is maintained. It wasn't all parties that wanted it. They wanted a more unbalanced balance, but we have fought with Enhedslisten and the government to keep the social balance that is in the strain. The second thing I want to say is that there is therefore a challenge here, with the changes in tax rates that we make in some areas of taxation, in terms of resource strategy, recycling, etc. There is a change in the incentive structure, and in some places this is happening at the risk that the progress we want in the area of recycling will not be achieved. So I would now like to say to the Minister and to my colleagues that we need to talk about this during the course of the debate. It's not certain it can be solved. I do not think that this can be resolved in the Treasury, but it must then be resolved elsewhere, and we must put the process on track so that we make a solution so that we have the incentive structures we want so that we do not have a retrograde step in terms of recycling. There is also another discussion which must continue after this. It is about this that we relax the PSO for business. That means, of course, that the lack we will have in relation to the calculated CO2 We, together with the Enhedslisten, have made an agreement with the government that we should meet to negotiate, so that we get rid of the extra shortfall and the negotiations we have been promised, I believe, in September. I know that a great deal can be done in politics, but we are beginning to approach the time when we expect to be called for negotiations. So we are happy to contribute to this legislation here. I understand that it should be adopted by the end of October, which is quite soon, and that is also why I have used the choice of words about the problems that I think we, too, in the conciliation circle, have to commit ourselves to further discussing. It is therefore primarily a resource strategy, and then it is in relation to a CO2 Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104038	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104042	I'm gonna try a factual question for Mr. Knox. Steen Gade, because I've been looking in the papers for answers and haven't been able to find it. It was the case that when the Energy Agreement was concluded in 2012, the Ministry of Finance considered in a note that the long-term employment impact of the Energy Agreement 2012 would be a minus 1,300 people, i.e. there would be 1,300 people fewer in employment in the long-term as a result of the Energy Agreement 2012. Did Mr. Steen Gade in the negotiation process here was told how negative the employment effect will be when these amendments to the 2012 Energy Agreement are made?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104125	No, and I understand it is the memory of the questioner that is in progress, and I will use my memory as well. I certainly remember that I received a note from the Ministry of Finance, when we made the energy agreement, about how many new jobs were created, and it was built around the years from 2014 to 2021, and in the years that gave the most, we were up to 7,000-8,000 additional jobs annually.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104200	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104201	It is not my memory that I am referring to; I have the note from the Ministry of Finance black and white here on my little phone. And it is true that the energy agreement has been knitted in such a way that in the first few years you spend a lot of money building things and stuff, investing in things and things. What then applies when you have done it and no longer do it is that there is only the bill left and it has to be paid in the years to come. From 2019, 2020 and beyond, there will be only expense and no investment, and the long-term employment effect is therefore, according to the Ministry of Finance, 1,300 people minus as a result of the Energy Agreement. So I'm just asking Mr. Steen Gade: What does it look like now when you make the change? How negative is the long-term employment effect resulting from the energy agreement with the changes? I assume that you have taken an interest in it while making this agreement and that you have answered or asked for the answer, but I have just not been able to find it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104259	No, we didn't ask for the answers to that. After all, we're setting up the PRS for business in this bill... that's something the business community has been pushing pretty hard for when they said that it's gonna help to secure and create some jobs that we're doing. So I don't really get the point of it, like Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen says here. I would also call into question what is being said if I have understood the logic of the question, because during the 2020s these wind turbines will be paid for by the subsidies under the PSO scheme. This means that they are going to stand and today we know that they stand much, much longer than you expected for 10 and 15 years, where the only thing you have to pay is the maintenance of them. It's gonna be one of the most favorable investments this society has made when we're talking about wind turbine building alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104401	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104410	You have to admit, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that he has found a point, namely the point that this bill leads to the tax being set up. Personally, I think that it is an exciting and interesting end to a debate with the Left that they are being made to accept that the inclined tax ceiling is being set up. I find that interesting and interesting. It has to be said, however, that whether the introduction of this limited tax increase and even less the lowering of the green cheque are to the advantage or disadvantage of the people who have to pay it depends on what the money is to be used for. And then I would say that it is not true when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen makes it that this is primarily about raising money to invest in solar cells and wind turbines. No, this is about implementing a policy whereby we go from using fossil fuels to primarily using biofuels. The first was taxation. It's not on the other one. Therefore, a tax would also be introduced on this type of fuel, so that the same money would be put in the box, regardless of whether people or energy companies chose to fire with something else. As it is already the case that the environmental and climate impact is much more negative if you burn wood in many different ways than if you like. using wind energy or solar energy, then it was basically a sensible idea to tax the burning of wood. It was actually a very sensible idea. It was environmental and so on. a good idea, an example of how even in the Left wise thoughts can be devised. Then what was proposed by the tax minister, on the other hand, was completely inedible, opaque, impossible to understand. Whether it is because, when you start making taxes in Denmark, you can only introduce them by making it as bureaucratic as possible, or it was because it was impossible to make a levy on the burning of wood that was to be administered, that I still think is completely unsolved. We put forward a number of proposals on how to simplify it. All of this was rejected for a rather strange reason, in my opinion, and it ended up with us being faced with the view that alternative funding should be found when we moved our energy consumption away. On the alternative funding we found, we said that we had the view that it should lead to greater social equality than anything else. It didn't work out. It can be said that the Left achieved it in the negotiations to ensure that the increased inequality in Denmark, which they have helped to implement together with the current government, was preserved, but it was not deepened. I was able to hear from the rapporteur of the Left that he was very sorry about the way in which this was financed, and I am really glad to hear that, because then we have not lived in vain in those negotiations. Then, of course, there is the distribution profile, which has the small weakness in it, I would say that if you have low incomes and have a very low energy consumption then you can actually get hit inappropriately by this, and that is a disadvantage. The second thing I want to say is that there are also some environmental challenges that we are now facing. There is what the rapporteur of the Left also said: what is happening in relation to recycling against incineration. I was a little surprised that the Left is so concerned about it, but we have a strategy that we want more recycling and less burning going in the opposite direction? We have a question about what is happening with the use of heat pumps in the heat supply, which is being disadvantaged in relation to burning wood or, to the extent possible, any other. It's environmentally a really, really bad idea. Whether these are challenges we can solve in relation to this bill with the limited aim it has, or whether it is something that needs to be resolved in negotiations with the government under a different regime, I dare not say. But at least it has to be solved. That is also true, as Mr. Steen Gade said that one of the consequences of what has been agreed is that you get an increase in CO2 Although we have agreed with the government that this has to be compensated for, it is nevertheless a little bit awkward when we are in a situation where we actually need to reduce more than planned than planned, that we need so much energy to repair, here, however, on an agreement that we ourselves have been involved in. The tradition is that we repair the damage that comes from the agreements the government makes with the right wing. But, of course, we will also engage constructively in this work. So I am not going to say that this bill puts me in any kind of enthusiasm, but I am nevertheless a little bit happy and a little proud that it is possible to make agreements with the Left that do not lead to greater social inequality in this society. I think the government and the tax minister should learn from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104914	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in the series of speeches, sir. Ole Birk Olesen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010104923	Today we are discussing a draft law to finance the 2012 Energy Agreement, which the government parties, SF, Left, Conservative, Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten agreed to implement and which they are now going to scratch the money into. The story is that in February 2011, the VK government presented the Energy Strategy 2050°, which for the first time referred to and proposed a security of supply tax. The security of supply tax was a tax on both fossil fuels and biofuels, and thus it was also a tax on straw, wood pellets, chips and the so-poored fireplace, which later came to the public's attention. A charge on fireplace burners was proposed by the VK Government in February 2011 in the Energy Strategy 2050. Then there was a change of government, and the new government continued with the VK government's plan to introduce a security of supply tax on, among other things. fireplace burners, and the new government agreed to introduce this security of supply tax on inter alia: fireplace with Left, Conservative, Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the other governing parties. Then it happened at some point that journalists discovered that fireplaces were now to be taxed, and then a terrible act began. It was a terrible act. Left and in particular Conservatives claimed that they had never said yes to that. That was a documentable lie. It was their own idea. They had agreed with the government themselves. It was a documentable lie. It was their idea, they wanted it, and they had agreed it. There was a terrible, terrible debate in the media, etc., where Conservatives in particular pretended not to be behind this and that it was not their idea. Misleading the voters is the best word you can use for it. No major political scam has been seen in Danish politics since the Social Democrats and the SF went to the polls at the Fair Solution, which included election promises that exceeded what they actually had funding for, by more than 20 billion. kr. It was a very big scam to help them get to power, and what Conservatives in particular, but also the Left, carried out when it came to the fact that they had agreed a burning tax was an almost as big scam, and the intention was quite clear to deceive the voters something that was not right, namely that the Left and the Conservatives were deeply opposed to an idea that they had invented themselves and which they had themselves agreed. It was a time when you were really not happy to be in politics. I was indignant. I said ugly words to Conservatives' rapporteur, Mr. Mike Legarth, who was the foremost one to try to convince the voters that he had not been involved in this, although he had it. But it did not really take, and the strategy continued to convince the voters that it was not something that had grown in its own garden and that it was not something that was supported, even though it was. Now we are standing here and we have to finance the abolition of the security of supply tax that the VK government came up with, and for that purpose the government and the parties that support it, that is. all parties here in the Folketing, except the Liberal Alliance, to increase the electricity tax by 520 million. kr., increase the tax on cigarillos by 40 million. kr., increase the base tax and a cancellation of the green check for 2.3 billion. kr. So, in total, we are now voting on a tax increase in the region of 2.8 billion. kr. primarily to finance the 2012 Energy Agreement. If the parties had not adopted the energy agreement of 2012, we would not need this, so those responsible for the fact that we now have to raise taxes by 2.8 billion. kr., are the parties that signed the Energy Agreement of 2012, i.e. the governing parties, i.e. Left, i.e. Conservative, i.e. Danish People's Party, i.e. Enhedslisten. We're against it. We were opposed to the 2012 Energy Agreement because we did not want to impose increased taxes on Danes, and we are therefore also opposed here to funding the 2012 Energy Agreement with higher bottom tax, higher electricity tax and increased tax on cigarillos instead of with a security of supply tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105431	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105437	I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance does not think that when a minister sends a draft law to a hearing and there is extreme criticism with elements which I must say far exceeded my imagination, that it is not entirely on the moon that there is also being listened, that those parties, because they were responsible and took responsibility for a political agreement, say: OK, this is something we can easily find rational economic arguments for; when something happens, we have to do something else. In terms of equality and rationals and theory and balance and such things, it seems reasonable, but when it comes to reality, it is something else. I do not understand why the Liberal Alliance like to mock us for saying: OK, reality trumped any kind of theoretical argument; we listened to common sense and then we discarded it. That is what I thought the Liberal Alliance, in all the criticism we hear, would like to acknowledge: Parliament listens to common sense and to the criticism of the proposal which in reality had no time on earth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105614	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105615	I certainly think it is a good thing that, instead of implementing something which seems to surprise someone where bureaucratic and hassle is, something that is less bad, but still bad in relation to, if nothing had been done at all. But that does not change the fact that when the press first got sneeze very late, because we do not always have a vigilant press here in Denmark, that the Left had agreed a burning tax with the government, the Left rapporteur in the field did not claim Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, I think it might have been mr. Kim Andersen; no, that was Mr. Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt. Lars Christian Lilleholt, that it was completely surprising to the Left that there was even a fireplace burning tax in the 2012 energy agreement that there was any charge at all on fireplace burners in line with other biofuels. The Left rapporteur claimed that it was not the Left's idea and that the Left was very opposed to it, although it was the Left's idea, although the Left had agreed with the current government. It was wrong, it was not true what the rapporteur of the Left said there, and in general the efforts of the Left have given the impression that the Left was against something that was actually the idea of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105741	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105743	I think so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen tightens it. As I said, you can make theories and everything else, but I do not think it is wrong to say that there was probably a perception that what was in the security of supply tax was, among other things or mainly, that if a cogeneration plant chose to fire with renewable energy, it would also have to be taxed when everything else was. That the consequence of that was that you couldn't run around in the woods and glean firewood without it leading to taxes, it may well be Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had predicted. I admit, then, in all my ignorance, that I didn't foresee that. But I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen clearly has to say that the Liberal Alliance is against the energy settlement and therefore they are against everything. I agree that funding is by no means optimal; there should be no doubt about that, but it is, after all, less bad than the alternative. I agree that it would have been wiser to find the money by not allowing the world's largest public sector to grow further instead of...
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105857	Thank you! Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010105858	It cannot be taken as a surprise to the Left that the security of supply tax invented in February 2011 will not only affect cogeneration plants, but also ordinary consumers who buy straw for heating or who buy a wood tower for heating. The left sat in both the Treasury and the Climate Ministry at the time the plan was made. It is inconceivable, for me, that it should come as a surprise to the Left, that ordinary consumers too would be affected by this security of supply tax by burning straw or wood, and that it was not only cogeneration plants that were affected. The only way that the Left can excuse itself for not knowing this in advance when it was presented is amateurism, ignorance and bad, poor insight into the policy one presents itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no one else signed in. Then the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110020	Thank you, Madam President. The government and the parties to the agreement have agreed not to withdraw the financing of the security of supply tax by increasing the base tax and reducing the green cheque. That's what this bill is about. The Conservatives are against this. The base tax is increased by the equivalent of 0.28 percentage points, which is 17 billion. kr. Towards 2020. As I said, the green check will be reduced by DKK 425, i.e. from DKK 1,300. to DKK 875, fully phased in in 2020. We are in complete agreement that the security of supply tax, as it was implemented, is a faulty construction and that it must be cancelled. We fully agree with that. It was the Conservative People's Party that was the first to announce after the bill became known, and when the agreement reached at the negotiating table was put into practice: that is not what has been agreed at the table; we cannot back that; it is a mistake; it is for us to see an administrative monster travelling that is even worse than the fat tax. When we got the fat tax on the table in connection with a previous tax reform, it was a completely impossible law that was on the way to being implemented. Fortunately, it has subsequently been abolished, and with it in the back of the head it was very, very wise to go critically. That is why I am also pleased that agreement has now been reached in the conciliation circle to cancel it. However, we have a vertical disagreement that this should be done by raising the base tax by 17 billion. kr. Towards 2020. At the same time, we maintain that when you choose to do so, it is a breach of conciliation, because we were part of that conciliation circle. We sat around the table where this was negotiated. That is why we must also find an arrangement on which we all agree. That is why we are claiming the right to be able to block the change that is being put on the table today. We ourselves have pointed to another system which we think is much more sensible, namely that the majority of the green cheque is used to replace the security of supply tax. Then you do not need to raise the base tax and thus further raise the marginal tax in Denmark. It will even leave about half a billion, which you can use for those who might be hit awry by this amending law. After all, the Ministry of Taxation has also answered a question we have asked that it will actually be a system that will provide a better supply of labour and so on. I have now heard Ole Birk Olesen here on the platform, and I do not really think that his words deserve a reply. I think this is an obscene way of speaking from the main platform of the Folketing or perhaps the country's chair some say that the most important platform. But that's sir. Ole Birk Olesen's style. You can't bother other people too much, and you can't in any way put other politicians in the mouths of a distorted way that can be exaggerated more than Ole Birk Olesen does. It is quite creepy to hear that way of discussing a political matter. Why do you not question the individual involved before you stand up here and allow yourself to be called Left Dealers and Conservative Dealers as liars and all sorts of other things? I think it must then be the prime task of every politician to say something when we have agreed on something political, which is then put into practice, and one can see that: that is not what we had thought; that was not the intention of that bill. That is also why we send things into consultation. And then you get back a wealth of consultation answers that show the happy madness of the GDR days, when citizens were about to prove that the tree trunks they had bought were not used to build a carport, but were used to burn off and provide energy. It was now necessary to document this with image material and send in to SKAT. If you bought sawdust and the like for your animals, for rabbits, horses, guinea pigs, what do I know, you had to prove that you used it for your livestock and not for fuel. When you walked out in the woods, you weren't allowed to pick up twigs. If the wood was in a stack, it would have to be taxed. It's an administrative holocaust. A crazy administrative monster that none of us could name when we saw it translated. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party were the first to say: no, thank you, this cannot be changed, we will not be supporting it, and that is why we have blocked it. But when we sat at the negotiating table, I can just tell you and it's completely straight, and I put my head on the block that it was so that when the agreement was concluded, we were not down to discuss in detail how the security of supply tax, which can also be translated into a heating tax, works. It was a big deal. We had a feeling and an expectation that this was about cogeneration plants, district heating plants, large-scale operations which could be taxed. We never spoke during the negotiations on the level of detail. That's just the way it is. That's reality. That's the truth. And don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110549	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110552	Here is what is obscene: it is indecent to put forward an idea of a security of supply tax; it is indecent to agree a security of supply tax and then go and say that one is opposed to key elements of security of supply tax. It's obscene. It is to deceive the citizens and the voters, something that is not true. Sir. Mike Legarth claimed that the Conservatives were against the whole idea that fireplaces should be taxed long before we had the bureaucratic monster coiled. Sir. Mike Legarth is now shaking his head, but it can be documented. I can go back to Jyllands-Posten and see that even before the bureaucratic monster was coiled, Mr. Mike Legarth to Jyllands-Posten that he was against taxing wood. That's what Mr. Mike Legarth. But Mr. Mike Legarth himself had agreed that timber would be taxed, sir. Mike Legarth himself, sir. Mike Legarth's party had been part of a government that had presented the idea that timber should be taxed. So that's what's obscene. This is an attempt to deceive the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110700	Thank you. Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110701	If it was up to me, I shook my head to the day of my death every time I hear Ole Birk Olesen open his mouth and make his unmannerably unpleasant attacks and sayings and tones in the political debate. I think it is reprehensible that we should be debating this way. In the time I've been in the Folketing, I've had a wish that we could do that thing with politicians. But for so long, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is in the hall, it can't be done. I can hear that. I mean, it's about having some kind of decentness and respect and trusting that what people say can be trusted. People don't have a hidden agenda, people don't go around lying consciously. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has no idea what he's talking about, because he wasn't in the negotiating room. But he would have liked to have had this case so that he would have been able to stand in opposition to a new fat tax case, as this crazy case would have been, if all of us had just said: if that overall political agreement we made at the negotiating table turns out to be at this level with these unpleasant things, then we just have to look down at the table and close our eyes. For we have to say: well, if the officials say so, if the experts say that is how it should be translated, then we just have to take it. No, exactly not. That's why I'm a politician. That's why I'm standing here, Ole Birk Olesen. It is to ensure that when the political agreements I make are put into practice and hit the citizens, they are decent and honest. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110821	It is rarely such a Friday morning that the minds have gotten so upset, but it is almost completely liberating. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110827	There's nothing to do in this matter about properness and integrity when it comes to the Conservatives' act... nothing. Politicians do not come from those who point out that someone is trying to deceive voters. Politicians come from those who try to deceive voters. In this process, the Conservatives have tried to convince the voters that the Conservatives had nothing to do with the fact that there should now be a charge on firewood; Mr. Mike Legarth has taken the lead in trying to convince the voters. That's not true. On the contrary, it is an idea born of the VK government while Conservatives sat in government, an idea agreed by the Conservatives with the current government, namely that fireplaces should be taxed. - Sir, you can. Mike Legarth didn't talk his way out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Steen Gade... I don't have to answer). Oh, I'm sorry! Yes, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110916	Thank you, Madam President. I understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has come up a little late and can't hear what I'm saying, so he's asking the same thing one more time. I could repeat my whole story, but in this case, frankly, I consider Mr. Ole Birk Olesen as a political clown who does not deserve an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110939	Then it's mr. Steen Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010110940	Thank you. You wouldn't think that less than 12 hours ago in this room you got the impression that the bourgeois parties agreed on one thing and everything when you just watched this, but that's not what I'm gonna ask. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Mike Legarth about, is how in the world Conservatives can view this as a breach of settlement, when the social balance is so how it burdens the poorest, how it burdens the richest people are maintained in relation to the proposal that was before. I do not agree with Conservatives who wanted it to be good for the more prosperous part of the population, but we have just maintained the same social balance. How on earth can the Conservative People's Party view this as a breach of conciliation? It's like what we had before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111036	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111038	It is because it is a fundamental principle for us that we do not want to help raise taxes. We do not want to make it more difficult to get the day and the way into a private economy, and we do not want that for companies either. We believe that increased taxes are pointing in the wrong direction. These are fewer jobs. It is less competitiveness for our industry, and that is why we reserve the right to have found that financing model in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111110	Thank you. Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111111	It totally confuses me, and we're gonna have more questions, and I don't have them. However, this proposal contains, in relation to consumers, the same social balance, so the same burden as there was before, for those who are disadvantaged and the same burden before and now for those who are at the good end. It was in relation to the privates. As far as business is concerned, the PSO is relaxed in this proposal. Where are we? The logic is failing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111155	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111156	The logic is clear. A tax increase hits everyone no matter what. When you impose a tax on consumption, you pay a tax in relation to the consumption you have, and that is the basic difference. There is no justice in it, and that is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111217	Then there's no more questioners. Thank you to the rapporteur. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111226	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the lively debate, and I would also like to thank you for your support for this legislative proposal, which contains elements from both the agreement on a growth package and agreement on the roll-back of the security of supply tax, etc. and relaxation of the PSO. I will also deal with some of the individual details that have been mentioned by the rapporteurs. I welcome the fact that the proposal leads to a reduction in the cost of energy to companies for the benefit of growth and employment in Denmark, and I also welcome the fact that the proposal leads to better financing of the 2012 Energy Agreement than the security of supply tax. The security of supply tax would have resulted in high administrative costs for both citizens and companies. Instead, we have found another funding through personal taxes, which is less distorting than the security of supply tax, and therefore involves a socio-economic gain for the benefit of all. Various elements have been mentioned during the debate. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from Dansk Folkeparti mentions both the possibility of gradually phasing in the tax on cigarillos, for example. And in relation to that, it is essential to stress that this is, of course, a political balance. There has to be an agreement in the conciliation circle, that is clear. If we were to find funding to make such a gradual phase-in, it would require a consensus across the conciliation circle. I have not heard such a broad consensus, but of course you can discuss it further if that is what you want. In general terms, however, I would say that the levy on products, including on ceruts and cigars, has not been increased for more than 30 years. Having said that, it is true that the main purpose of the proposal is to raise the price of the cheapest cigars to the price of the cheapest cigarettes so that they are equal. A step-by-step implementation of the tax increase would certainly result in a loss of revenue. I also think it is worth recognising that the rapporteurs, including the rapporteur from the Left, have highlighted in various ways the importance of the amendment of the law, which in general means that a little less will be charged to citizens. Sir. Steen Gade of the SF puts great emphasis in his rapporteur's speech on the social balance, but also points out the issue of a resource strategy. Mr. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten too. In relation to the resource strategy, I think it is worth mentioning that, of course, the government attaches great importance to the achievement of that resource strategy, but that the resource strategy cannot be achieved by means of taxes that are not in line with EU law. The draft law has contradictory effects in terms of recycling; it is not possible to determine in advance the impact of the proposal on the resource strategy. That is why the government will continuously ensure that the resource strategy is met, and I could also listen to Mr. Steen Gade's speech says that we are very concerned that this is happening and that, of course, this can be done not only in relation to my group of ministers, but also, of course, in other contexts. Sir. Mr Per Clausen, who is not here at the moment, is also in his rapporteur's speech on the issue of credit institutions, which cannot be dealt with either in relation to the proposal before us, but it is nevertheless a view which is, of course, welcome to be included in other contexts. Sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen seems to me to be worth mentioning, given that he thinks it has been a good thing that we have had the opportunity from the parliamentary platform to make it clear from the Liberal Alliance that we are not part of the complex of agreements and have never been. Of course, you have the absolute right to do so, but of course you are also outside the scope of influence. And I have listened carefully, but I could not hear that there were any concrete elements of a technical nature in relation to the draft law, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance had comments on. But, of course, we are welcome to ask them in committee, if there are any specific questions, in this context. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place, including the more lively part of it. It is amazing on a Friday morning that there can also be a little life in the rags. I look forward to a constructive and, above all, rapid committee procedure, and at the same time I would like to thank you for accepting the request for urgent committee procedure. Indeed, the proposed changes in personal taxes must enter into force quickly, and so they must be incorporated into the ordinary advance statement for the 2015 income year. So I would like to thank both the Folketing and the Bureau of Parliament for their support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111815	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111818	In March 2012, the Ministry of Finance publishes a note on the employment impact of the Energy Agreement. In the memo, the Ministry of Finance quotes: After 2020, the employment effect will thus gradually move down towards the long-term impact on labour supply, which is estimated at a reduction of 1,300 full-time persons. It is therefore 1,300 full-time employees less in employment as a result of the energy agreement for 2012. Now something is being changed in the energy agreement. Other funding is found instead of the funding originally found. Can the Minister for Taxation answer how much employment will be reduced by now in the revised Energy Agreement? I assume it's not the 1,300 people anymore, but maybe it's 1,200 or 1,100. Does the tax minister have that number?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111915	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111917	I understand that sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance must feel it arduous to be left out of influence when you are not part of the conciliation circle. I can understand that. We're gonna have this specific question drilled out if it's of crucial importance. It is of course not important in relation to the technical implementation of the specific proposal, but when Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen would like it to be clarified, of course we shall have an answer to it during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010111947	If I were in government, I would then be concerned about how much employment is being reduced by the agreements that are being made. I think that employment is an important issue. So when you originally plan to reduce employment by 1,300 people and then you make a small change or a major change to the original agreement, would I, as a government, be concerned: how much is employment reduced by now? If it's no longer 1,300 people, maybe it's only 1,100? But still: how much is employment reduced? I would have expected the Minister to reply to that because I had expected the Minister to address the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112027	No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, what would be relevant in this context, was if the Liberal Alliance was part of the parties that take responsibility. The Liberal Alliance isn't. The Liberal Alliance stands out on the sidelines without dealing with this content in any way whatsoever. After all, not a single substantive question has been asked in relation to this specific technical proposal. You are completely stunned indifferent, and the only thing you take into account is: what if you had been sitting at the negotiating table, what could have been affected? It's okay to spend Parliament's time on it, it's okay, but the truth is that it's counterproductive and in fact it's just a question of getting out on the sidelines and saying: oh, boo, boo. That is quite all right, but it has nothing to do with the specific legislative proposal and the technology we have to do. But we're gonna make sure that mr. Ole Birk Olesen gets answers to his questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112121	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112123	The Minister for Taxation says that he is aware of some of the issues related to the hearings and which I myself mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. But I'd like to know if the tax minister could get a little closer. In connection with the consultation answer from Eco-Tech, I have to say that I was somewhat surprised. The company itself has been in contact with the European Commission and asks how EU rules should be understood. They get a message from the Commission, but when the company then presents it to the Treasury, it doesn't quite have the same weight. I understand that the company in question is somewhat puzzled by these changes, because when the company itself contacts the Commission, it gets one answer, but when the government has to deduce the consequences of EU rules, the answer is different. I am very surprised, and so I would very much like to hear from the Minister for Taxation what considerations the government has made, what evidence is this that the government is apparently looking at the matter differently from what the Commission is responding to a specific problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112239	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112240	It is obvious that, when we work on the European issues here in the Danish Parliament, it is not only in the European Committee, but also in many other contexts, that there are a number of dialogues which, by their very nature, are surrounded by confidentiality. It is also clear that as a minister I will do everything in my power to ensure that the Parliamentary Committee on Taxation is, of course, also kept up to date in relation to the concrete considerations that are in relation to this. In general terms, however, I would say that it is the case with the questions about the EU that, for example, on the issue of bio-oils, there are some possibilities for investigating cases and there is also a wide-ranging analysis of them. But it is also the case that if you go in this direction, it is important that we do not experiment because you can get into a situation where you can get into some non-approved state aid, and if we go in such a direction, it is not a question of the state possibly assuming responsibility, but rather of some companies that may be subject to a cost afterwards. Therefore, we must be very careful to consider exactly how we stand in the specific situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112401	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112402	Yes, but I think that the tax minister might be a little off the rails here when he says that there is something that can be further investigated. I expect the government to be in control of that when the government comes up with this element. Well, then, it's not like we could think about something else. I have to say, I'm very surprised. The same applies, of course, when we look at the concerns that several people have also mentioned regarding the recycling of waste. I hope, therefore, that this is not the same weak argument that, if you looked deeper, there might be other ways. Because I understand if there are citizens and companies who say: it is something funny that when you have a principle in Denmark that what can be recycled should be recycled, whereas what cannot be recycled must go the other way, and the charges must support that development. Now we have a proposal that suddenly removes a tax. I have no objection in principle to this, there should be no doubt about it, but at least create an incentive structure in which we risk the level of recycling being reduced. And I hope that the tax minister has a slightly different approach to this than that, if you look at it more closely, there might be new ways. Because I understand why citizens and businesses sit back and shake their heads and say that they usually say something different, but now they come up with a proposal that is moving in the completely different direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112536	As the consultation material also shows, we have a request from the Waste and Resource Industry, which, of course, includes: deals with some of the issues. There is, of course, the fact that we will subsequently draw up a draft notice which deals with the relevant requirements for documentation, which are included here. is around, and that notice will be issued at the same time as the law enters into force. And there I would like to stress that the industry will be involved in order to make a contribution to the definition of these specific requirements. Similarly, there will also be a draft notice in accordance with established practice. It will be sent for consultation by the interested parties, including, of course, those who are in the industry and represent the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112624	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010112641	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 21 October 2014, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
