ParlaMint-DK_20141209130000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on sanctions for young people who have committed crime). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 2 December 2014, it was decided that the responsibility for handling a complaint to the Ministry of Culture from Zentropa over the decision of the Danish Film Institute on Zentropa's administration of production aid was transferred from the Minister for Culture to the Minister for Justice. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 2 December 2014 states that the responsibility for dealing with a complaint of 11 August 2014 to the Ministry of Culture of Zentropa on the decision of the Danish Film Institute of 26 May 2014 on the administration of production aid by Zentropa is transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Justice, since questions about the viability of the Minister of Culture may be raised in relation to the examination of the case in question. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130102	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130150	Yes, quite briefly: I think it is worth noting that, at this third reading, we are now beating the last nail in the matter of the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ireland, even though it is a small step, that is to say, a step in the right direction in combating social dumping in air transport, a social dumping which ultimately threatens aviation safety and where we are taking advantage of all the tricks we know when we talk about social dumping: wage pressure, creative forms of employment in the form of arms and legs, tax fraud, and what I know is what is known in aviation as Maltafinten and not Luxembourgfinten. This has been largely achieved on the basis of a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten at the time. But there must be great praise from this point of view to the then tax minister, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, who threw himself into it and made sure that the ministry went ahead with the task. So there should also be praise in this regard to the Treasury, which they are not accustomed to, for having done a very good job and having achieved it well. Now all we have to do is get the Ministry of Finance and Modernisation in gear, because you're here a little more sluggish and stick to the UN Global Compact agreement, and I'll give you, I'll give you. We have just seen it in connection with the agreement on air travel concluded via the Statens og Kommunernes Shøvns Service A/S, which has opened up Norwegian suddenly to receive a number of routes, even though Norwegian is notoriously a low-cost company that uses exactly fines like salary printing etc., as I mentioned earlier. And there is no point in referring to the UN Global Compact agreements. If you look closely at the list of companies that have signed up to that set of rules and that is not binding, Norwegian is not SAS. So the Treasury and the Finance Minister must do this much, much better. But it is good that today we can vote in favour of the proposal to amend the double taxation agreement with Ireland.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130411	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130418	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 109 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130502	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130523	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130537	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130559	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130613	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130636	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130652	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 111 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130714	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209130728	After all, this is a legislative proposal in which most of those who support it state that they have no expectation that it will have any effect. We could see this at first reading, when the criticism raised by the Enhedslisten, namely that this proposal was an attack on the self-employed in agriculture and would lead to the ownership of our agricultural land being further monopolised and leading to the centralisation of agriculture, was rejected by saying that there was no expectation that this would have any effect at all. One might then ask oneself why a bill is adopted which does not solve agricultural debt problems and which does not solve the generational problems that one has but allows large international capital funds to take over a large part of Danish agricultural land. What is the purpose of putting forward such a bill is to lose sight of it. It also lost its way in the uncertainty at first reading, and it gets lost in the uncertainty when you read the answers to the hearings, because there is virtually no one but the Finance Council who thinks it is a good idea. I think it is a good thing that the government is ruling a little without always being praised by Agriculture & Food, but in this situation I think it may be a little strange that everyone agrees, is a half-bad idea. It has also been confirmed in the committee's work that there are many who think it is a half bad idea. We have then chosen to table one small amendment in order to ensure that the preference for supplementary land, etc. which exists in the old legislation, can be maintained. When we table that amendment, it is because it is in any case quite clear that the consequence of repealing it will be negative. It will be negative in relation to the ecological change that the government is in favour of and it will be negative in relation to the possibility for small farmers to continue farming in the future. But once again it has to be said that the government then has an argument that it may not matter. Here I would argue a little opposite and say that if it is true that the preservation of the rule we have, whether supplementary land is of no importance, should not one take and preserve it to see if it could not be a small help to get a little more progress in the ecological transformation than would otherwise be achieved? That is why we have tabled this amendment to the draft law. If you look at the debate that took place at first reading, if you look at the debate that has taken place in committee, it turns out that there has been a great deal of understanding for our proposal. Unfortunately, it has to be said that it seems that an agreement has been reached in which it states that it must be deleted, and so it seems that there is no one other than Enhedslisten who can vote in favour of our amendments. However, I have noticed that the Danish People's Party will abstain, and that is probably the closest thing to getting support from a party that has agreed on something else. So thank you for that. But the fact that you've made a stupid deal shouldn't prevent you from thinking a little bit later. Apparently, it has done so here, and I think that is a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131019	Sir. René Christensen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131024	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party will, of course, end up voting in favour of the bill when it comes to the third reading. Why do I choose to speak today? I do the same because of the preference. It is the case that, in the whole of the legislative proposal, priority will be abolished, priority will be removed. We therefore agree that the priority we know today is not the priority that is needed in the future. We can also see from the questions that have been asked and from the answers that have come from the Ministry that priority is being given to teasing and other things in the industry, which cause increased costs. That is why it is true that we are getting away from the priority we know today. But now it is the case, and that is why we have the first, second and third readings, that we can reflect on the agreements that are being made. It is the case that the Danish People's Party has also reflected on it and has come up with what is happening with ecologists who, for example, must have animals on grass when they now remove the preference. Here we are thinking in particular of dairy farmers, who have to have land close to them because their drivers have to go to grass every day. Therefore, an organic farmer who wants to be a milk producer cannot have land 20 or 30 km away. They need to be close to the property. That is why we have discussed it in committee, and I can only confirm what Mr. Per Clausen said here from the platform that there was a really positive debate in the Committee on Food and Agriculture on how to create rules that will enable us to continue to support animals on grass. I also welcome the fact that, on 16 June, I was able to see that the Minister for Food was out to say: "We are busy if we are to meet our high ambitions. Therefore, there is no reason to wait to solve some of the most obvious challenges... It must be easier to choose the ecological path. It must therefore be easier for ecologists. We want more ecology. It has also come out as recently as yesterday that when we look at the ecology in Denmark, we see that things are going very well. We're increasing our exports. It's going the right way. That is why I am surprised to hear from the committee that the Minister should note that there were no signatures from those who asked the question whether the Minister would submit amendments which would ensure that organic farmers with livestock production would be given some form of preference for supplementary land, thus meeting the particular challenges these organic farmers face in grazing. There are two things in this. There is animal welfare in it, and there is, of course, the fact that we support a form of production that we can see is progressing. What, then, is the Minister's answer? The Minister answers that he does not believe that this should be done by introducing a special preference for organic farmers with livestock production. That is to say, although we agree that the priority we have today should not be given, and although there is a committee which has a positive attitude to how we can then have a different form of preference, we will not be able to do so because the agreement states that priority must be removed. We fully acknowledge this in the Danish People's Party. That is what the agreement says, but I thought that we in the Danish Parliament could get a little smarter and say that we agree on what we have decided, but now we can see that it has some unintended consequences, and should we not then take and make some legislation that helps to support what we all want, namely better animal welfare and more ecology. But that is what the Minister does not want. Of course, we mourn that. We are voting in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal, and of course we are voting in favour of the agreements we have concluded, but this will certainly have an impact on how we are going to look at it in the future. We think it is a pity that we cannot make real policy with the government that is present at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131409	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Apparently, there isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131421	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party In favour 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 86 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 13 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 7 by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131525	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131546	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131603	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131627	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131638	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131700	We would actually like to ask for a referral back to committee. We've received a number of requests from some local radios. There are apparently some unintended effects in the draft law that we would have liked to have looked at more closely. That is why we are going to ask for a referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131745	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131759	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131815	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131834	This is one of the amendments. It is, of course, the case that for the tenants of a property a building renewal project will in most cases be extremely positive simply because the apartments are significantly better to live in. But there may also be situations where there is such a large increase in rent that most tenants in a property are simply unable to pay. In other words, the tenants in this situation are forced out of their apartment. It can be said that they are actually being refurbished out of their apartment against their wishes. It is unreasonable because our home is one of the foundations of our daily lives. That is why the SF has tabled an amendment which says that the tenants of a property should vote on whether such a building renewal project should include, for example: a large increase in rent must be carried out or not. If there is a majority in favour of the project, it will come about, but if the majority of the tenants are against it, it will not be implemented. I would therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of the SF amendment as a contribution to a fair tenant democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131952	Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209131956	I'd like to say to SF and Mr. Eigil Andersen, that of course I have sympathy for the proposal. However, I would also like to say that the urban renewal law has already provided for the right of veto for tenants, and with this amendment, a majority of tenants must approve all parts of the urban renewal project. Under the lease rules, the owner can actually carry out the renovation project without involving the tenants. The legal position of the tenants is, in fact, better than under the general rules of the lease law, since the tenants have the possibility of re-housing and of receiving phase-in aid, i.e. aid for 10 years to pay for the increase in rent. The rights of tenants should be regulated in the rental law without special rules in relation to other legislation. Now the urban renewal law has been in operation for 10 years without special rules on tenants' rights in this regard, and during that period we have not received any citizens' requests from tenants who do not in practice want urban renewal projects carried out against the wishes of a majority of tenants. The municipalities already have the opportunity in the individual case and I think that is important, Mr. Eigil Andersen has made demands on the owner of the building that a majority should support the project. In this context, it is in fact the case that most municipalities do not wish to launch urban renewal projects in buildings where tenants are opposed to improvements. The municipalities have no interest in providing support for urban renewal projects with which the tenants are dissatisfied. The proposal on procedural rules and on the approval by tenants of all building renewal projects will be an administrative burden and as such may undermine the incentive to use the possibilities arising from the urban renewal law. In this context, I must say that it should also be remembered that the owner can carry out a similar project under the terms of the lease law, but that is without the possibility of the tenants saying no and without the possibility of re-housing and receiving phase-in aid. So you can really go over to, if it gets too messy, to use the general rules of the rental law. And I don't think that's fair. In fact, I think we should use our urban renewal law with the good opportunities offered by the proposal. That is why we reject the amendment from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132210	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132214	I do not deny that the urban renewal law is better in a number of respects than the provisions of the rent law. But can the Minister confirm that the urban renewal law does not currently have a collective right of veto?
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132229	Yes, I can confirm that, but on the other hand, the municipalities can demand that the owner of the building actually have a majority. After all, it is the municipality that receives the urban renewal funds and allocates them to the owner. As I say, over the ten years, this amendment to the rent law and the urban renewal law has worked, which has been proposed in parallel on the rights of tenants, we have not had any representations about it. I would also like to say that the municipalities are not interested in implementing urban renewal projects which the tenants are opposed to. But it was a lot of trouble with the old law, because there you should be allowed to make pipe penetration and miscellaneous through the apartment anyway, and that's Mr. Eigil Andersen, too. But remember, they can carry out these projects according to the general conditions of the lease law, if it gets really bothered to do them under the urban renewal law. And we actually want them to use the urban renewal law with the rights and opportunities it offers for tenants in order to have improved conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132319	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132321	But I have also noted that the Minister has answered one of the questions I have asked: that the individual right of veto which existed in the past gave rise to certain difficulties. That is why this proposal is precisely about introducing the collective right of veto on the part of the tenants, i.e. the majority of the tenants. We have wanted this from the SF, because we want to give the tenants greater security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132347	To repeat briefly, if we erode the owner's incentive to do these things, the landlord will do so with the general lease regulations and therefore without the rights of the tenants; there is, of course, the possibility in the lease law as it stands today. That is why I think it is important to maintain what it is now, but I do understand why Mr. Eigil Andersen and SF make the proposal,
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132407	Thank you, Minister. No one else wants to speak. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132417	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by another minority (EL), and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. For the amendment voted: 17 (EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against: 93 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstained: 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132519	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132538	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132552	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132621	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132634	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 102 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 17. 2 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and on behalf of the Committee on the I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 4, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 of a minority (V), I'm gonna finish the vote. For the vote 42 (V, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 67 (S, DF, RV, SF and EL) abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132855	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132914	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority of the committee except the Danish People's Party? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law be re-examined for the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132933	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209132952	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133005	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133035	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133051	The Enhedslisten has tabled two amendments to this bill. One is that driving licences for buses, i.e. driving licences for category D, must be obtained in order to be able to drive a light lane. The second point is that the equality of the right of way which the draft law lays down does not materialise; that is to say, it is abolished, so that a priority is given to light lanes when driving in mixed traffic, i.e. when driving outside the so-called own trace. To my great surprise, I think, the proposals were rejected in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which may be surprising, especially when you see the two amendments in context. If we want to achieve equality of driving obligations in areas where the easy track does not run in its own trace, we think it is crazy that we should only be in possession of driving licences for cars and not, at least, have a driving licence for buses, just like the bus drivers who drive mixed traffic. So I think we are well on our way here to gamble a little with road safety. After all, an easy route takes even more passengers on board than a bus, and it may well be surprising that the parties in this Parliament think it is a good idea to be able to drive an easy road, even if it is running on rails, with a driving licence for ordinary cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133236	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority, Enhedslisten, joined by a majority, the other committee, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal referred to in A and on Amendment No 1 tabled by the Enhedslisten. Two, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 101 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Four of a minority, the Enhedslisten, and we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. For nine votes (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) against 99 abstentions (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), 99 abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 5, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Six of a minority, Enhedslisten, joined by a majority, the other committee? It's agreed. The proposal referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. The vote will be taken at the end of the debate. 7 of a minority, Conservative People's Party, joined by another minority, Left, Danish People's Party and Liberal Alliance. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 54 (V, DF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 56 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 of a minority, Enhedslisten, joined by a majority, the other committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133527	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we will be through the second readings and perhaps we will have to have some conversations out of the Chamber before we go to the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133625	The debate is open. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133638	Thank you, President. The proposal we are debating here is intended to make it easier to be voluntary in Denmark. For a number of years, there has been pressure from the major interest groups, particularly in the field of sport, to ensure that voluntary work does not drown in requirements and rules when the work carried out is a leisure activity for a non-profit association. In short, we simplify and debureaucraticise the area. But now we have to see if we are going to achieve our goal, because, as one of the hearing answers shows, we are not quite in line with it, as executives as a board member and committee member or team leader are still regarded as jobs similar to ordinary jobs. And the Left assumes that in its day-to-day work the Labour Inspectorate will help to ensure that the rules are interpreted and managed as flexibly and simply as possible. We will keep an eye on that in the Left, and I am sure that it will be with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties. The bill also reinforces employers' responsibility when it comes to violence, threats or other offensive behaviour related to employees' work when they are off duty. Today, employers have a duty to prevent employees who are exposed to violence, threats and other offensive behaviour from meeting this when they are off duty. The proposal provides for the creation of a legal basis for measures relating to the execution of work, which should also apply to work-related violence, threats and other offensive behaviour that takes place outside working hours. In addition, provision is made for the establishment of rules and guidelines for guidance to employees on the handling of violence, threats and other offensive behaviour, as well as rules on the follow-up of such incidents. The authorization will be used only to lay down obligations which the employer may undertake in connection with the planning, organisation and execution of the work, and the obligations will relate only to matters which employers have at their disposal. In other words, the employer will not be given any obligations in relation to the private relationship of the employee or the worker in his spare time, which I am sure many of us are very happy about. But now there is more discussion about how to protect yourself in leisure time if you have a difficult working environment. This is new and untested, so in the course of the committee procedure, the Left will work to ensure that a revision clause is incorporated in the draft law so that we have an evaluation of this part of the legislative proposal. The draft law also includes a much greater focus on health and safety at work on those companies which have the greatest problems with the working environment. Such targeting requires that the Factory Inspectorate be given better opportunities to identify those companies where there is an increased risk of poor working conditions. For this purpose, the Labour Inspectorate needs access to obtain more information from external registers. All in all, we have ended up with a quite sensible proposal, which the Left supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133950	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209133959	Thank you, President. The vast majority of Danes are happy to go to work. It provides a value that can not only be measured in money; work also makes sense and quality of life. And that's good. We Danes spend a large part of our lives at our workplace, and in the future we must count on it to be even longer. It requires that the conditions under which we work are in order. The working environment in Denmark is basically good, and we politicians must ensure that it stays that way. And that is a challenge, because we can see that working life is a very changing size. It develops in line with technology, new family patterns and industrial development. It requires flexible and modern legislation on working conditions. Today, therefore, we are discussing a very good draft law on working conditions in Denmark, which precisely meets the challenge of modern working life. Part of the bill is about the conditions of volunteers in Denmark. Basically, it is fantastic when people want to spend their leisure time and effort strengthening the Danish community. This is a piece of work which quite literally carries the salary in itself. Although voluntary organisations are also jobs, we must be aware that there are very special conditions here in relation to ordinary work. And a number of organisations have therefore pointed out that the requirements for the working environment of volunteers may constitute unnecessary bureaucracy. The government has listened to this, and that is why we are loosening up a bit with the draft law today. Non-profit-making associations are therefore exempted from workplace assessment and occupational health and safety organisation. Of course, this does not change the fact that voluntary organisations still have to follow the general rules on working conditions, but it makes sense to make it easier to organise voluntary work in the service of a good cause. The bill also addresses another important issue when it comes to working conditions, namely work-related violence. It is a serious matter if a situation in your work ends up being subjected to violence when you are free or your family is subjected to violence or threats. It must, of course, count as work-related violence, and that is why what is now referred to as work-related violence is being extended by the bill. In future, it must also be possible for a person or a person's family to be subjected to violence when they are off duty. We must realise that the boundary between work and home is becoming increasingly fluid. Unfortunately, this also applies to threats and violence. Unfortunately, we have already seen too many examples of this. It should therefore not be the time, but the background to the violence, to determine whether there is work-related violence. What is crucial is that we protect those who are exposed to work-related violence, regardless of time and place, and that is what the bill makes clear. Finally, the Factory Inspectorate has access to external registers so that efforts can be directed more towards those companies that suffer most in the working environment. For example, the Labour Inspectorate has access to information on citizenship and the date of entry from the CPR register, as well as the period of employment and hours of employment from SKAT. This gives better opportunity to find those companies where there is a risk of problems with the working environment. It should be noted in this respect that the observations made by the draft law have taken a position on data security, so that information about individuals is protected. This is, of course, important. All in all, therefore, it is a sensible extension of the Danish health and safety rules. We strengthen the community, fight social dumping and make a fair and fair change in the understanding of work-related violence, and therefore the Socialists can support the proposal. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134350	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134353	I just need to make sure I didn't hear wrong. I heard the rapporteur say that the Danes are very much at their place of work. I think that's true. But then he said: we must be prepared to be there even further in the future. Is it the plan of the government or the Socialists that we should have working hours set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134414	It is a good thing that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has clarified what I was talking about here. It is about us working longer as we live longer in Denmark. That's what I was trying to describe here, but it can obviously be misunderstood. It's not about us being longer at work every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134438	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134441	Thank you, it was nice to clarify. I hope that we can then agree to say that we must be as little as possible at work as possible to produce what is necessary in a society. And then we'd like to share the work that is. That is to say, we are agreed that we must descend on a 35-hour working week, preferably a 30-hour working week.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134459	I think we should leave those negotiations to the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134503	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134505	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a fine speech. I noticed that the rapporteur is very concerned about work-related violence, and I actually think we all are. It must be awful for a prisoner or a police officer to be confronted with his work in his spare time with his family. I know the rapporteur well enough to know that the rapporteur is looking for possible solutions that work, and we cannot be sure that we have achieved our full goal by adopting this bill. I am therefore going to hear whether the rapporteur is in line with the Left when we say that this is the way to keep an extra close eye on this area. Let's put in a review clause so that in two or three years we'll see if this works. Does the rapporteur agree with the Left on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134557	I think it is right that we should keep in mind that changes are taking place. That's what I thought I said in my speech. In other words, changes are happening all the time because the labour market is changing, and we must also deal with this in the way we do the work on health and safety. I fully agree with the Left that we should do something about it, especially when we look at public employees, but also private employees who are subjected to both violations and violence at their work and in their leisure time, and that is what we are doing with the bill we are dealing with here. If there is to be an audit clause, I cannot really relate to it. I think we need to discuss this in committee. At first sight, I do not think that this should be necessary because we have an ongoing discussion on the working environment. But I'm not dismissive. I think we should discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134652	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134655	Thank you for your support. I just thought I heard the rapporteur's speech in such a way that it was very concerned that what we are doing here will work. Now, that will only show the future, but I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is an area that we must keep an extremely close eye on. That is why I think we could actually take the part of the law that is about work-related violence and say: we want to learn more about this and we want to keep an eye on whether we are going to achieve it. That is why we have a review clause in two or three years' time so that we can be one hundred per cent sure that what we are doing and adopting here works, so that if you have jobs where you are exposed to work-related violence, you can be sure that the country's legislative assembly really believes that something needs to be done about it. I don't have much left for empty blows in the air and symbol politics. I think we should find something that works, and that is why I thank you for the extended hand that the rapporteur has given here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134758	The draft law means that when you have discussions in the labour market organisation about what the plan for working conditions should be like for the future, and if you have the discussion about how the work is organised, the employer has an obligation to ensure that you get the level of conflict in the workplace down so that you do not get so much conflict there and thus don't get nearly as many conflicts once the employees are free. I think that's a good way to do this, and I can't really see how you could do it differently without really having to tighten it up. And then, in fact, think that it is just as good to have a debate on the legislation. However, as I said, I would like to discuss this in committee and I think we should take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134849	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209134858	Thank you, President. This bill is, of course, a relaxation of the rules on working conditions for voluntary organisations. Today it is the case that organisations, when working voluntarily, are subject to a law that they have to make a workplace assessment and set up a health and safety organisation • it may be sports associations, it may be recycling shops or many others. It is a burden on those who participate voluntarily and want to make an effort. It is not the case that they then get rid of the health and safety rules, because we do not want anyone to get hurt; but the Danish People's Party is quite prepared to have more relaxed rules for voluntary organisations so that they do not have to do a lot of paperwork that is a nuisance to associations that actually make a lot of effort but do not make money on it. Then there is the problem of confronting violence and threats and other offensive behaviour outside the workplace and outside working hours. It is being tightened up so that the employer really has to prevent it and be ready to help the employees with advice and guidance on how to actually handle what is happening outside working hours. We've had many situations where there are some employees... it may be in a social worker's office, it may be in the police, it may be in many other places, and it may also be in private companies... that have been subjected to violence and threats outside working hours. Of course, we need to look at how we can ensure that this does not happen and how we can then help employees with a police report? That's what's going to happen here. However, we have some questions about this which we need to clarify in the work of the committee, among other things. What consequences this will have on, for example. a trader who has a restaurant or a bodega or a garage or whatever it may be. What are the consequences and costs for employers if they are included in this? But we ask that question during the committee work. It is nice to get it right, because I understand that this should actually be cost-neutral for employers or at least involve small costs, but we need to clarify that. Otherwise, however, we think it is very good that we can prevent violence as much as possible in the interests of employees. It is quite wrong that when you are off duty and come home, you are faced with threats to yourself and your family. It just doesn't have to happen, and of course we have to make sure that we can stop it. And then there is an investigation order which sets a deadline to comply with the injunction. Then we come to the last point about access to information in the income register, the sickness insurance register, the social security register. It is, as I understand it, in order to ensure and prevent social dumping, so that we can have more control over those who work in the workplace, in other words that they do not work on the wrong conditions and that they also live at the address they have now given up. It is also quite good that the Labour Inspectorate can obtain information about who works somewhere. I would just like to have some certainty about that, and I think the Minister is actually prepared to do so. systematics, when the Factory Inspectorate enters a workplace, just take a check of everyone who is at the workplace. I don't understand that it's on it. Then I listened to it too, sir. Peter Juel Jensen mentioned a revision clause. I understand from the Minister that the Minister is ready to introduce the revision clause, and we also support that in the Danish People's Party, because it may be sensible to have the law looked for • is there something we have missed, have we got it all? Of course we need clarification. And I think the Minister may say something about it when he gets on the platform. The Danish People's Party fully understands this at least. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135307	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135318	As has been mentioned, the draft law exempts voluntary organisations which have activities with many different people from establishing a health and safety organisation and exempts one from making a written workplace assessment. We also think that in the SF this is quite right, as I have understood that all other provisions of the Working Conditions Act continue to apply. This means, for example, that the employer, and it will then be the association, still has a responsibility to ensure that there is a safe and healthy working environment. But it will, for example. In other words, if there is a need for protection in connection with some work, the association as an employer must also instruct the volunteers on how to do it. The same applies, of course, if there is a risk of falling or of other things. It's being nodded from the minister's place. I'm glad. Then we've understood it correctly, and then this change is also quite well seen with SF's eyes. Then there is another issue that has also been touched on, namely that it is, of course, totally unacceptable that some employees have been subjected to violence, threats or harassment. This applies, of course, both when they are at work, but also, of course, as has been mentioned, when they take time off, to the extent that it is precisely the work that is the reason why they are also exposed to some ugly things in their spare time. Well, that's one thing. affected job centre workers; it has hit nurses from former patients; it has also hit prison officers who have been sought out and harassed; and also police officers. Even more groups could be mentioned. It is incredibly good that employers should now assess the risks of violence, threats and harassment because of the job, including in the employees' leisure time, and, as I understand it, advise employees on how to avoid these incidents. We regard this in the SF as a good step forward. It is clear, of course, that the other side of the coin is that there is a limit to how much the employer has to decide on the employee in his spare time. There I have noted that this bill of course means that if I am the one who gets such guidance about my free time, I still decide for myself which supermarket I want to shop in and which way I want to drive home from work and other things. I think that is also a real border-draining. Finally, I would like to mention that the Factory Inspectorate will be able to obtain a number of information, among other things. on sickness benefit and hence sickness absenteeism as part of the process of identifying where the serious occupational health and safety problems to which the Factory Inspectorate must pay particular attention are. I have to say that I think this is a good step forward. I am convinced that it is true that the question of information on absenteeism is one of the parameters of whether you have a workplace with a good or a bad working environment. This also applies, for example, to mental health and safety at work, where a poor mental health and safety environment will typically lead to greater absenteeism. In conclusion, SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135650	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135700	First of all, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten can support overall the legislative proposal's amendments to the Working Conditions Act. First of all, I believe that it is a great step forward when the employer's commitment is extended to the prevention of violence and harassment of workers outside working hours. Unfortunately, there are working groups, for example. prison officials and school teachers who are victims of violence or harassment, even after the end of the working day. Therefore, employers must ensure their working environment throughout the day. With regard to exemption from the APV and the organisation of work on health and safety at work in connection with voluntary work, we support it as a piece of concrete debureaucratisation. However, we would like it to be made clear in the draft law that there is still an instruction obligation. Similarly, we want clarification of how voluntary work is covered by the Work Damage Insurance Act. We shall be asking questions about this in committee. The most fundamental of the amendments concerns AT's, Labour Inspectorate's, access to information in various registers. On the one hand, in the Enhedslisten, we are generally concerned about the authorities' steadily increasing approach to various information about citizens. On the other hand, we recognise the need for new tools in the fight against social dumping. Against this background, we are pleased that the Labour Inspectorate's access to pay data has been tampered with by the final proposal, which in our view now appears to be fairly balanced in terms of objectives and means. However, we need to get a more precise description of who is covered by AT's, Labour Inspectorate's, new access to information, and how, which we will also ask questions about in committee work. With these comments, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135854	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209135908	Thank you so much. I would like to start by saying that this bill has improved since it was originally put forward. The first element, which is really about debureaucratisation, is when volunteering is done, for example. sports associations, in other words that the same health and safety requirements are not being made for the work being done out there, we think that we are very sensible and very good, because there has been too much bureaucracy in volunteering, for example. sports associations. So we wholeheartedly support that. Then there are some other things in which we must also say that it has improved, in other words that the Working Conditions Act lays down the legal basis for employers to be given a greater obligation to what should be said? It has to be said straight away that it is totally unacceptable that employees may be subjected to violence in their work, and that is something that has to be severely reduced. We're a little in doubt whether this is the right way to do it. In other words, there is already work going on today, both at the Factory Inspectorate and at the employers' level, and we really think it is quite good there. There is no doubt that everyone has an interest in reducing violence at work. But again: the draft law has improved and it has been clarified in relation to the original one, which is why it is now a little more edible, but we still have some questions which we think are justified and which we will be asking in connection with the work of the committee. Then there is the last part of the bill that is about the Labour Inspectorate having access to more data, among other things. As far as sickness benefits are concerned, this is all about obtaining more data, and we are quite critical of that. We think there are some connections here that are not entirely factual, and again in this bill there is such an underlying mood that something bad is going on as soon as there are foreign workers involved. We think it is fundamental that the social partners should take care of this if, for example, there is no need for this. If it is not in order, then it is something that the social partners must take care of. We think it's best out there. In general terms, wages and working conditions are something that the social partners must take care of, and we therefore have a tendency to do so is something in which the authorities are increasingly interfering. We are in fact in doubt whether the social partners are even interested in this path. So at least we have some questions on this which we will have answered in the course of the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140235	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140237	There are, of course, many issues which the social partners deal with according to the Danish labour market model, but the issue of working conditions has been regulated and therefore the social partners also play a role in it. But basically, the working environment is something that we legislate about through the Working Conditions Act and related regulations etc. That's why I'm just gonna ask sir. Joachim B. Olsen, on the Liberal Alliance, agrees that the working environment is a legislative issue and that it is therefore also important that the Factory Inspectorate should be given the right, for example, to obtain the information which is available and which can point towards where there are major problems with the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140328	There is no doubt that the working environment must of course be something that legislators are interested in, but it is not the same as always extending it to new areas. I would point out that there is a tendency, as in the case of those jobs which employ foreigners, to suspect them, and it does not seem that it is possible to prove that there are certain problems in those sectors. It is true that there may be more accidents at work where foreigners are employed, but this is because foreigners work in certain sectors where there are more accidents. So what is, like, our intention here, and what I am trying to say, is that it is not always good just to expand the role of the authorities, because there is some work going on out there between the social partners, and we really think it is best that they solve the problems that may once be. We believe that they can find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140442	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140445	Now there is another area where the Liberal Alliance generally suspects someone. Every person in Denmark who gets a transfer income suspects that the Liberal Alliance is half-criminals who want to cheat and deceive, which, of course, is not true. Here we are talking about the issue of foreign firms, but we are also talking about sickness absenteeism in general, which can serve as a guide for whether the working environment is good or bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140524	I have to say that the claim that we suspect people because they are on transfer income must be at the rapporteur's own expense. I think it is a very sluggish form of debate, I have to say. I find it boring that we should be debating this way. That's not true. That's the way it is when you use your question on such nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140545	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140547	Thank you. I'll try to play peace negotiator here. I would like to return to the bill. In the past, on questions to other rapporteurs, I have been calling for an audit clause to be incorporated into this draft law so that we can ascertain whether the measures we are adopting today have any effect. Then I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have some reservations about another part of the bill. I very much agree with the rapporteur that we must, of course, be very careful about how we use what one might regard as confidential information and information that deals with the individual. Could it be an idea to get the rapporteur on the whole road to including a review clause there too, so that we have two separate audit provisions, so that we look at the work-related violence and look at how it is just getting some more data in, how it works, how data is collected, and can we use it for something?
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140648	We think there is a good intention in that proposal. In general terms, we think that there should be more of such revision provisions in the legislation, so that after some time it was assessed whether legislation had had the desired effect. So we can support that. I just cannot stand here and guarantee that it is enough for us to finally support the legislative proposal, but it is certainly a good proposal from the Left that we are positive about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140719	There's nothing else? Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140726	The reason why I would like to put a question to the rapporteur is that one can get the impression, now that one has heard the rapporteur's speech and remarks, that the Liberal Alliance does not really care about the welfare of workers or employees in a company and that it does not matter whether we have a working environment that is in order. I should really like to hear the rapporteur's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140754	We are certainly concerned about this, but it is not a measure of one's concern for any subject that one is willing to legislate and legislate. I am trying to stand firm on the view that these challenges are often best solved by the social partners themselves, and they are, of course, in the process of solving these challenges today. I don't think anyone cares about violence. Of course, violence is now banned, and I believe that when it occurs, it must be fought very hard. But it is like saying that one should not worry about a specific problem because one does not always think that the legislation is the right way to go, I think is a strange point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140844	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140847	That may be a point of view, but then I can ask the rapporteur whether he has the impression that these issues have been resolved outside the walls here. It is not my impression that it has been possible among employers' and employees' organisations or in companies to deal with the problems that exist, for example. on violence outside work. So does the rapporteur think that this could easily be resolved there and that it is not necessary at all? No, I'll put it another way. Like the rapporteur, I can see that there is no need for legislation to do so. So where does it stop? Should we have voluntary agreements on everything, or is it behind the thinking of the whole Liberal Alliance that we should not have legislation at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209140933	It's kind of amazing what you have to pay for here. We want legislation in a great many areas, but it is quite incredible that there should be members of the Folketing and genuinely believe that legislation is always the only way to solve problems. I might ask the opposite: is the rapporteur not of the opinion that the social partners, together with the Factory Inspectorate, are working very hard on these things? In fact, I think the rapporteur thinks they do. We have some questions about this bill, but we are in favour of the basic view that we believe that these problems are best solved by the social partners themselves, those who are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141019	Then there is one last brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141022	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur finds it annoying to be misunderstood, but when a communication is misunderstood, two parties may be responsible, namely both the sender and the recipient. Maybe you could think about that a little bit. I am also thinking of the strange answer, which Mr. Eigil Andersen was given before the answer or the missing answer. Employers in Denmark have the right to direct and distribute the work. It is in several of our rules in the country, probably also in the constitution when it comes to the matter. This includes some duties, namely that the employer should take care of the workforce he or she hires for the job. The rules are regulated both by legislation and by agreements. The Labour Inspectorate and the trade unions are working to implement these rules. Is it not reasonable to clarify the rules if they can improve rather than just say that they have to find out for themselves? I should also like to point out, if the human arguments do not work, that it will cost society 30-40 billion. kr. a year because we have a bad working environment in our workplaces. So there is also public money to save on it, which is usually achieved by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141136	To the point of being misunderstood and the reason for this: it may be due to poor communication, but it may also be due to the fact that the recipient of evil will misunderstand what is being said. Then I would say that a good working environment is an advantage for both the worker and the employer. I guess I can't make it any clearer. I want to and I don't think anyone doesn't do a good work environment, but what we're discussing here is what's the best way to get it. It can sometimes be legislation. So we're just questioning whether it's right here. We also refer to the consultation answers that are available. After all, the social partners have submitted a hearing reply, and we can see that at least one side is very sceptical about whether the right solutions have been found here. I also said that the bill has improved. This has been listened to, and it is very positive. Then we still have some questions, and I think it is quite fair that they should be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141241	I guess there'll be no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141252	Thank you. After all, this is a bag of mixed candy here in the field of health and safety at work. Let me start at the most positive end. On the subject of exemption from certain of these obligations, with inter alia: I would like to say that both sides of a voluntary organisation which has voluntary helpers, i.e. both employers and employees, are often voluntary forces, if I may say so. Let us do everything in the world to avoid a lot of administrative trouble in situations where people are just helping to make life a little more fun, a little easier and a little easier, or whatever it may be, for other people in their communities. Foreningsdanmark is one of the things that binds us together. It is necessary to constantly look at the rules that are in this area, which make many things unnecessarily difficult for these people who want to make a voluntary effort. Then there's this deadline for fulfilling orders from the Labour Inspectorate. That's perfectly reasonable. We'll back that up. It is also appropriate to remove the obligation to notify full-time employees under 18 years of age, as the municipality already gets the arrangement from SKAT. So that's fine. That means less administration. We can only back that up. On the disclosure of information on security measures for risk companies, we believe that it is absolutely right and proper that, as citizens and communities, we should have information about the security measures that are being taken on companies, such as the United States and Japan. the risk of dangerous emissions. So in a lot of areas there are a number of good and sensible proposals that reduce administrative burdens. Then there's this thing about violence, threats and off-the-job abuse. None of us can disagree that it is important to deal with this. We have some concern about the fact that the company is being held responsible for something that is going on outside the company, but I have the impression that what is being regulated here is actually what companies are doing to a large extent already. It is therefore my immediate opinion that a somewhat reasonable balance has been found here between on the one hand addressing a quite serious problem and, on the other hand, taking care to give people responsibility for something that they have absolutely no influence on, for example. what happens when some of their employees are out shopping. But something can be done in the company or in the workplace, perhaps you should call it, because it is in fact a long way along the way many public employees who are in these terrible situations. It is clear that we must work on this, and that is also my impression, that it is happening in many places. Finally, there is the proposal for access to all this much information. I have to admit that we on the conservative side are somewhat sceptical about what this information is for. We're glad the payroll thing has come out. I find it very difficult to see what employees' wages have to do with the company's ability to maintain a good working environment. I must admit that I also find it very, very difficult to see what citizenship and the date of travel may have to do with it. One imagines a company with a large number of highly specialized employees, which one has had to recruit abroad, because we simply do not have this kind of specialist employees on Danish soil, and then the Labour Inspectorate storms because these really, really skilled and highly specialised engineers, or whatever that may be, are likely to indicate that there is a poor working environment in the workplace. I simply do not believe that. I have a very, very difficult time seeing that connection, and I am actually a little puzzled that it should be included. So if we were to do this, we might have done it a little different, and we might be asking a little questions about the use of this part, which we're somewhat skeptical about. It is important for us that there will be continuous follow-up to what is achieved by obtaining these data, and not least to what they are used for, because we are, among other things, those of us. The Enhedslisten also mentioned, rather concerned about what all this gathering of information about citizens can end up mean for our society if everyone is to go and be publicly available on all parameters for all kinds of good reasons. So we are going to worry a little about that in order to review the two things I have just mentioned I was most concerned about. So, of course, I can only support the fact that we are putting it in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209141823	I can begin by thanking the rapporteurs for an overwhelmingly positive reception of the draft law. I think it was Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose who called it a bouquet of mixed flowers or sweets, I even think it was and that's right. After all, there are three such slightly different elements in the proposal here. First there's that part about the volunteer. I think what we are doing here is making it easier to be a volunteer. And just like sir. Eigil Andersen put it out I'm very happy that he saw that I shook my head and didn't hear that I shook my head. So it will be easier to be a volunteer, and I think that is quite reasonable. Then there's the other part. As some have mentioned, it is a matter of better registration. I think it is a little misleading that it has become a debate on foreign labour. It's not about that. First of all, it is an attempt to ensure that we get better information about where there is a risk of poor working conditions, so that we can organise a better and more precise effort where the risk is greatest. I think that there is good sense in that and is a good use of resources and money at all. Then there is the last part about violence outside the workplace. I agree with what the rapporteurs have said about this being totally unacceptable. I think it was sir. Joachim B. Olsen, who asked: Have we found the right balance here? I am not sure that we have, but now we have given an indication of what can be done in relation to something as unacceptable as it is for people to face the harassment and violence, even outside the workplace. I believe that it was not least the Left and the Danish People's Party who were concerned that we might have a revision clause in this area. If so, I have no problem with that in this area, because I think it is something that one can probably legislate some way out of. But first of all, it is also about taking the debate, dare taking the debate and making it quite clear that harassment and violence, because people are doing their job and even in their spare time, are completely unacceptable. So I thank you for receiving the bill and will do what I can to ensure that we get the answers to the questions from the committee as quickly and precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142038	There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142043	I would just like to acknowledge this purpose of targeting the work environment. We on the Conservative side are in favour of doing so, and we fully support the intention of working towards it. What makes it about the training of labour is the very thing with, among other things, this. citizenship, and I am a little surprised that precisely citizenship should be decisive here. In other words, I mentioned the highly specialized ones before, but it could also be that a company had a high proportion of foreign nationals because it had a company owner who had decided to make an effort to integrate and had therefore chosen to hire someone who was resident in the country and had a residence permit but had a different nationality. And that means again that it is a parameter that makes you expect a bad working environment. There's what I'm wondering about that connection, and that's why I'm worried that there's some data with which I don't immediately see a connection with this bad working environment thing. Health allowance, that people have been ill, makes good sense, because then it could be something at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142146	I just wanted to say to Mrs Charlotte Dyremose that this is not an attempt to suspect one or the other. It is just an indicator that can help to say something about the company in question, and we have experience of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142200	Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142221	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142231	Thank you for that, President. In view of the fact that the rapporteur on this proposal, Hans Andersen, is unable to be present in the Chamber, I have promised to read out his rapporteur's speech. The draft law specifically deals with the derogations provided for in section 2 (a) of Section 2 (a) of the Civil Service Act. 2-4, relating to pension. The draft law proposes a change in section 2 (a) of the Civil Service Act, which means that § 2 (a) (i) of the Civil Service Act. 2-4 is no longer in force and is no longer included in the Civil Service Act. In other words, after the entry into force of the law, it will no longer be important whether the employee concerned retires or pursues a professional career. The right to redundancy payments shall be the same regardless of the decision of the official concerned. The requirements for redundancy are the same, i.e. that you meet the basic conditions. They are that you must have been in employment continuously in the same company for 12 years or more in order to earn 1-3 months' salary. The economic impact of the draft law on the state, municipalities and regions is estimated to be very limited. On the other hand, the draft law is expected to provide an administrative relief for the state, municipalities, industry and citizens. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force on 1 February 2015. We in the Left support the bill, and we do so on the basis of a number of arguments. Firstly, the Danish law is now finally amended so that it also fits into EU law. This means avoiding the uncertainty caused by the law in the future. Secondly, by amending the law, there will be a considerable simplification of section 2 (a) of the Civil Service Act. It will not be possible to judge in future whether a quitter will continue to pursue a professional career or whether he or she will retire. Thirdly, the social partners agree and support the amendment of the law. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142445	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142455	Thank you, sir. President. This is a very good case for the older ones, and it is also a very good case because the European Union has been involved. That is why it is actually an excellent proposal. In the comments on this proposal, the background has been fully explained, namely the so-called Ole Andersen case, where an official was refused a redundancy allowance simply because he had reached retirement age. I do not need to delay the discussion here, because the Social Democrats consider it quite natural that we should correct a manifest error and put an end to that age discrimination. I am sorry, then, that the text of the law has not been worded so clearly in the past that any doubt was ruled out. In the past, it has been the case that an official could be refused any redundancy allowance if the person was terminated at the time when the official was technically entitled to receive an oldage pension. The officials, who then intended to continue working and not retire, had to wave goodbye to their compensation. However, under EU law it is now not legal anymore, which is why we need to change it, and we are, of course, prepared to do so. In general, the consultation answers are very positive about the changes, and hopefully that is a sign that we can adopt this proposal by a very large majority. The Social Democrats will therefore vote in favour of the motion as it has been tabled, and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they intend to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142619	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142627	Thank you, President. I think it's really nice that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen says that social democracy as a government party can also vote in favour of the proposal. So that's good enough. But I'm gonna have to congratulate you, because it's Mr. Simpson. Bjarne Laustsen's birthday today. It's probably not that often, it's being said from the platform to Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen, but now it was said. When you look at this proposal, it's about changing the rules for white-collar workers when they resign, so they can get the redundancy allowance that they can't receive now if they start at other work, and the Danish People's Party can support that. That is fair enough, even in view of the fact that we are talking about being so long in the labour market, even after the 70 years. In that case, employees must also be given the opportunity, if they resign from a position, to use the redundancy allowance to start up what was mentioned earlier. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is an excellent proposal that we can support. We also hope, of course, that it will have the effect that it is intended, namely that some people might be bet on doing something else when they are done with the job they have. But we also hope that we can escape the conflict that exists by actually forcing some to remain passive because they will not lose that redundancy compensation if, for example, they do. Thought about starting another job. We shall not be able to do that now, and I think that will give us a slightly more smooth transition. So the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142814	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209142827	I believe that this is an example of something that the European Union should not concern itself with at all. It is simply too detailed. In our view, there has been an excellent system in the Danish Civil Service Act, namely that if an employee who has been employed for 12,15 or 18 years is fired, he must receive a redundancy allowance equal to 1, 2 or 3 months' salary respectively. It was then the rule that it did not apply, however, if the employee had reached the age of retirement or if, at the time of his retirement, he was entitled to receive an oldage pension from the employer. The reason why you have had the rule and the meaning of it is, of course, that you would ease the transition to another job, which can be difficult, and it can be particularly difficult if you have been employed for many years in the same place and had the same job function. That's why we've had this rule. That is what the European Court of Justice has overruled. In a judgment, it is said that you are entitled to redundancy payments even if you are entitled to an employer's pension when you resign. As I said, I do not think this is a subject that the European Union should have the power to decide. I think that Parliament should decide because we are down to a level of detail where it is natural that this should be a national matter. It's not. The government then does not want to burden employers financially, and that is why it is changing the system so that one month's pay is paid in the future after 12 years of employment and 3 months of pay after 17 years of employment. And as is also mentioned in the notes on the law, it means that this redundancy allowance in the civil servant law changes its character from helping to alleviate the transition to another job to becoming a reward for long and faithful service. That is what is then the result of the European Union's intervention in this. Yes, I have expressed my frustration about it, and I will say it in that way that the SF voted in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. No, there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143050	Well, I just have one question, and I think I have 2 minutes and 30 seconds to ask it, and it's nice, it's fine, and I'll use them. What makes me ask this question is this: Eigil Andersen says that he is reluctant to agree to the proposal and that the EU is interfering in too much. I just want to ask you if Mr. Beckett... Eigil Andersen therefore believes that it is wrong that the case before the European Court of Justice has led to this proposal being implemented. For it is actually a little interesting if the SF now says that no cases should be brought before the European Court of Justice about anything that concerns the labour market, and that is what has been done in this case. Actually, that's just what I want to hear, that's all. Eigil Andersen thinks it is wrong that it has been raised at the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143145	No, of course it is not wrong that a case has been brought before the European Court of Justice, because it is an opportunity that one has. So that's how everything went by the book. However, when one such philosophies about the organisation of society and one also philosophises about the Danish position in the EU, one can, although we in the SF are warm supporters of EU membership, because we do, of course, sometimes ask ourselves whether it is right that the EU should have competence in such a detailed area. And that's what I'm critical of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143220	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143221	That is exactly what they will get by raising a case in the European Union that Denmark will then have to comply with. Well, to me, it sounds like Mr. Knox. Eigil Andersen has now confirmed that SF is a warm supporter of the EU system, but that it is wrong to raise a matter which must have consequences in Danish legislation, and that is what I find interesting. Because in the Danish People's Party we also believe that the EU has too much influence, that is the way it is. But now Mr. Eigil Andersen, that the EU must intervene in Danish matters, and therefore it cannot help that a case is raised that has implications for Danish legislation. That's actually it, sir. Eigil Andersen more or less stands and says he thinks is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143307	Then I have to say that there is no proper attention being paid. I mean, I say that it is quite all right for a case to have been brought before the European Court of Justice, because it is an existing possibility, and we would not think anything other than that you, as a citizen, of course have the right to do so, of course you do. That is why, as I said, although one is in favour of Danish EU membership, one might well ask whether there are areas where the EU is dealing with too much detail. And there I think the European Union sometimes moves into some areas where it was wisest to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143340	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143351	Well, as a start, I would like to contribute by agreeing with Mr. Eigil Andersen. I certainly think that the European Union is interfering in everything, too much and in everything, too much detail, and this is an area that should be regulated in each nation. But now it is the case that we are a member of the European Union, and the majority of the people have now adopted quite a lot of additions to our EU membership so that the European Union can interfere. In this case, I have to say that the European Union has interfered in a positive way, namely by abolishing any discrimination against older people when they retire. We are in favour of this being removed from the Civil Service Act. That is an advantage, I would say. It is an improvement to remove the limitation on retirement when a retirement pension is transferred to a national pension and an old-age pension. What the government saw by its own initiative is also an improvement, namely to award an amount equivalent to three months' pay after 17 years, which was before after 18 years. But then I don't understand the government anymore. Why on earth should we see that the government then takes the opportunity to make a deterioration, namely for the people who have been employed for 15 and 16 years? They receive only one month's allowance, where they received two months' allowance. This means that if you are equally unlucky to be in that group when you are dismissed or resign, you lose one month's pay. The Enhedslisten cannot agree to this, and that is why we will be tabling an amendment, because we do not think that people's conditions should be undermined. It seems double grotesque that the European Union is coming and improving our rules, and then the government says: it may well be that the European Union is doing so, but then, by the way, we will weaken them in another area. I think I can see what this is all about. Of course, employers will be taken into account. And that's it, sir. Minister of Labour, no reason at all in this situation. It is the employer's duty to pay those things, and that is why, of course, it is not necessary to reduce the conditions for officials to change the law. That is why we are tabling an amendment and, in the present form, we cannot support the legislative proposal because there are deteriorations in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143606	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143620	In any case, we can agree with the previous rapporteurs that in many areas the European Union is interfering in too much. We now also think that the Folketing is interfering in too much. On the whole, we are of the opinion that it is strange that the pay conditions of a particular group of employees should be regulated by legislation. We think that this official law is out of date, and we actually saw it abolished. However, we can support this bill because it is primarily the result of a negotiation between the social partners, a compromise between the parties, and that is why we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143720	On the conservative side too, we believe that a sensible and friendly solution has been found to this matter, which has brought Danish legislation into line with EU law. Against this background, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143736	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143741	That is exactly what the Minister for Employment is doing. As I understand it, there is very, very broad support for this. Perhaps all parties will vote in favour of this bill. We are going to put some order in some matters, and I am, of course, very pleased with that. So I thank you for Parliament's consideration and will do my part to ensure that the committee work is easy and flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143801	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141209143817	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 December 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
