ParlaMint-DK_20141121100001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better treatment of rape victims). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100025	The debate is open. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100045	Thank you, President. [Sound Outfall]... in the spring, early summer... [Sound Outfall]... all parties, with the exception of Enhedslisten, have entered into a broad political... [Sound Outfall]... easier access to highly qualified labour... [Sound Outfall]... the agreement must ensure that Danish companies get... [Sound Outfall]... foreign labour, including highly qualified labour from outside... [Sound Outfall]... translated into the bill consists of a large number of concrete... [Sound Outfall]... better on to the international competition they are exposed to... [Sound Outfall]... and jobs, also in Denmark. Private companies are... [Sound Outfall]... conditions for companies to recruit the necessary foreign labour on the most... [Sound Outfall]... and this is the reform we are now... [Sound Outfall]... by law or large parts of at least. It must be easier and faster to... [Sound Outfall]... which is part of the agreement, comes... [Sound Outfall]... companies get the opportunity for easier and faster... [Sound Outfall]... researchers. The area... [Sound emission]. With the agreement we also ensure better... [Sound Outfall]... foreigners who have studied in Denmark and who are valuable to the growth of the Danish... [Sound Outfall]... that regardless of how we turn and turn the figures, we will also... [Sound Outfall]... It is a simple demographic exercise to reach that result. Therefore, it is important to get foreign students to seek employment in Denmark and thereby maintain and expand employment. The Greencard scheme will also be revised in the draft law. In the Left, we want the green card system to be completely abolished, a system which, unfortunately, is responsible for the import of low-skilled labour. 43% Of those who avail themselves of the scheme, unskilled workers are employed. 28% are available. And 40%. Makes less than 200,000 kroner. a year. That was not the intention at all when we introduced the greencard system. That is why we would have liked to see complete abolition, but now the arrangement with the agreement has been substantially revised so that higher levels of education are required, and the scheme will be adapted to the demand in the labour market, just as the family of green card holders will not come to Denmark until the green card holder has been in work. In the Left, we have in our political presentations for new immigration policy...Denmark for those who can and will present our plan for responsible labour migration. We want to make it as easy as possible for as many of those who are unproblematic to integrate and who can and will come to Denmark to contribute. In the Left, we want controlled immigration. Work and study must be the primary entrance to Danish society. It is important for immigrants to be able to contribute to society, and that is why, in our foreign initiative, we have also stressed the need for responsible labour migration. And we have rolled back a large number of the relaxations that the government has made in the field of foreigners and that have made Denmark more attractive to come to, such as Denmark. the asylum seeker is not a highly qualified migrant worker. However, this agreement is entirely within the overall policy of the Left, which is why we are also pleased that we have concluded it together with the government. We intend to go further in a number of areas if we are given the opportunity to do so after a parliamentary election. I would like to refer again to our foreign initiative. If you look at the consultation responses to the draft law, you will see that concerns are expressed about the fasttrack scheme and the smiley scheme on which the certification of companies is tied up. It is a few things that the Left takes very seriously, especially when a large organisation like the Danish Employers' Association believes that there should be another criterion for the smiley scheme. That is why we will pursue their response to the hearings I believe that Dansk Industri has also mentioned it in committee to see if we can find a better solution than the one proposed in the draft law. In the Left, as I said, we are very pleased with the agreement that has been reached to ensure that Denmark gets the necessary foreign labour and that it is available to Danish companies. We would also like to sign up to the government for the negotiations that took place before the summer, when we reached agreement, because everyone bowed to each other. I think it is sensible in this area that we have some legislation for highly trained foreign workers, for which at least the main elements are broad support in the Folketing. Then, of course, adjustments can be made depending on who has the power of government. We are also positive that the government in the bill meets the challenges that many companies face when trying to recruit highly qualified workers, and that we can thus jointly help to ensure the competitiveness of companies and more growth in Denmark. With these comments, I must say that the Left supports this bill and intends to vote in favour at the third reading. However, we have some things that we would like to clarify in the subsequent committee procedure. I have also promised our comrades in the Conservative People's Party and the Conservatives' rapporteur, who cannot be here in the Chamber today, to say that the Conservative People's Party shares the line taken by the Left and also intends to support the proposal when it comes to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100622	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100626	Yes, thank you very much. The SF is part of the agreement that we are discussing today, so that side of the matter is quite right, but as the rapporteur himself says, there is the strange situation that the Left has announced from the outset that these rules will be changed if you have the power to do so after a choice. And one of the things you want to do from the Left is that you want to invite workers here, who get a job here in Denmark and earn 215,000 kroner. a year. This means that it is in one hundred percent competition with lots of unskilled and skilled jobs, yes, I would say, almost all unskilled jobs. It is a barn gate for social dumping that the Left will open. We are very much opposed to this in the SF, and that is why I should like to ask whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable to open this barn gate to social dumping against the 133 000 unemployed we have in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100731	I can totally reject the fact that it will lead to wage dumping, because it is foreigners who will be working on Danish contractual terms. This may lead to wage competition, that is, to make it difficult for trade unions and trade unions and workers to get paid, but frankly, I think that we are facing the highest level of wage competition from some of our European neighbours. I believe that a Danish employer will not choose to hire an American if you can have a Dane who speaks Danish. Most jobs in Denmark have to do that. And I would like to say that, as I have said, that competition already exists from a large number of Eastern European countries, so I do not think it makes the big difference, and that is very important because many Social Democrats have misunderstood it, perhaps because they have not read our foreigners' outlays, Denmark for those who can and will. It is not the case that you just open the barn gate. A quota system is envisaged, setting a quota of a few thousand, which should be able to take advantage of it here. So I actually don't think you'll be able to see from the statistics how much this group is. Therefore, it is an unfounded fear that the SF has.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100837	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100840	It sounds very, very loose with that quota, but as the rapporteur himself says, it is the case that we already, I have to say, have ample problems with underpaid Eastern European labour, which is being exploited by employers. In addition, the Left would add that an army of employees from many other countries, the so-called third countries, must also be invited. Is it fair to the 133 000 unemployed in Denmark that the Left will invite South Koreans and Argentines here to get an unskilled or skilled job?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121100917	Now I do not know exactly how much an army is, but we do not imagine that it is many hundreds of thousands or many times ten thousand that we are talking about some thousand from the quota system. I don't think it'll make a big difference to be completely honest. And it's a little strange that SF recognizes the need for foreign labour, but this is the right balance point that has been found. So there we in the Left have some other suggestions, also because we want our immigration legislation to be coherent, so that we close down those who contribute less to the Danish society. asylum seekers and to a greater extent open up to foreigners who can and will Denmark. And so there is a great deal from the United States, Canada and also South Korea that we can use on the Danish labour market without harming the Danes who work there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101003	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101005	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I would ask the rapporteur to clarify why the rapporteur is so pleased with this agreement. The rapporteur says that, overall, it lies in the policy of the Left. I would then like to hear a little more examples than I am sure there was time in the rapporteur's speech itself. Why are the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party so fond of it? Is it because it generally makes it easier to recruit foreign labour, highly trained foreign labour, without employers having to prove in any way that it is really needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101046	Well I am glad, and we in the Left are happy about the agreement, because we might be opposed to the Enhedslisten, I do not know that if we are to maintain the current level of welfare and the current welfare society, we need outside labour. There are simply too few Danes, we have too few children, we are too few in the labour market, we are too many outside the labour market in Denmark. The Enhedslisten will not do anything to move people from passive and public support to the labour market, and then you will have to go other ways, and that may be to recruit the necessary foreign labour force. That is not to say that we want foreigners to steal Danes' jobs, something that we actually think happens only to a very limited extent. However, I believe that there are sometimes foreigners who get a job because they are better qualified than the Danes to do so, and we have to ensure that our companies have the best skilled workforce if they are to create growth and if we are to avoid them moving abroad. We live in a global world, it has dawned on the Left, but I doubt whether it has dawned on the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101145	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101146	Thank you. Yes, I was not provided with so many concrete examples. I asked the rapporteur to answer the specific question, i.e. whether it is the case that the joy is due to the introduction of new arrangements. The green card scheme is being tightened up a little, but then new schemes are being introduced which seem to make it easier for companies to import highly trained foreign labour without having to prove in any way that they need it. All they have is a standing desire of all employers at all times to have as much labour as possible to choose from. Is that why the Left is so happy with the deal? Then I should like to ask whether the Left is aware that there is a very high level of unemployment among graduates in this country and whether this could not give rise to some reflection on the wisdom of making such an agreement as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101240	I do not think I can elaborate on the answers to both questions. I can say that on the question of academics, we do not mean the same thing as Enhedslisten with regard to what they are proposing. We can stand by the goal of the agreement that is here. I also understand that the Enhedslisten is opposed, it has not been possible to negotiate the agreement, and then it is natural to oppose it in the Parliamentary Chamber. In fact, I think that when you look through the agreement there are many good elements. And yes, we in the Left do not mind that it is some ideas that have come from companies, and so we trust that a company is not only led by some evil capitalists, but rather by some people who also want to operate in Denmark and create growth and employment. This is what we in Danish society must live on, and this agreement contributes to that which has become a reality together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101327	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101339	Thank you for that, President. When companies in Denmark have to cope with international competition, it is crucial that there is an opportunity to employ skilled employees. It is the foundation of a healthy company and therefore also of great importance for that we have growth and prosperity and afford welfare in Danish society. It is therefore very good that the Danish workforce is basically well qualified and hardworking, and with the other educational ambitions of this government, special skills and qualifications will only be strengthened in the coming years. But that's a completely different talk. Today we are discussing a bill to regulate access for companies to use well-qualified foreign labour. For it is basically a gain for Danish society when highly qualified foreigners come to Denmark and use their expertise and labour in Danish companies. It creates growth and it creates jobs. At the same time, however, we must also look at how we are doing this, because the desire for companies to have a good opportunity to attract qualified international labour must also be used for that very purpose. It has never ever been the intention that highly qualified foreigners coming to Denmark end up in a job that does not correspond at all to what they can, and certainly not if they end up in industries where there is already high unemployment. The rules on international recruitment were never intended to lead to social dumping. That is why it is gratifying that we are today dealing with L 61, which is implementing the agreement on the reform of international recruitment, on which we agreed by the summer. By the bill I mean we have found the right balance, where we loosen the top and tighten at the bottom, and that is the right way to go. In the same spirit, with this agreement, we clarified the rules on the conditions for interns. It is also very important, and that is one of the things we have been working on for a long time. It will be established with seven-inch nails that foreign trainees in the agricultural, veterinary, forestry and horticultural sectors are here to learn the end. It is not a shortcut to cheap labour that displaces Danish workers, it also puts an end to this agreement and clarification of the rules. The bill gives companies good and clear opportunities to attract and retain qualified labour, for example with the new fasttrack scheme. The fixed track scheme means that companies certified will be able to recruit highly qualified workers at short notice. If you need something right now, it's flexible, it's fast. It strengthens companies and it contributes to growth, but only certified companies can use this scheme, and I think that is absolutely crucial. Because the fact that we certify companies makes it possible for us to be sure that there are a number of things that are being respected. For example: they must have at least 20 full-time employees, they must not have serious outstanding balances with the Factory Inspectorate and, as a key issue, they must be covered by a collective agreement and there must be no labour dispute when recruiting foreign labour. This means that with this bill we put two points on the fact that the recruitment of international labour with Danish pay and working conditions is a key issue for the Social Democrats. The same balance applies to the greencard system. With the draft law, the current greencard scheme is being targeted, and that is what is needed. We are simply tightening at the bottom. We do, among other things. by demanding income in order to continue to reside in Denmark and by changing the current point system to better target demand in our labour market. This helps to ensure that, for example, a highly specialized physicist does not end up coming to Denmark in the belief that he should have a job that suits what he can, but then ends up driving a taxi. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of this, and no one in the Danish labour market benefits. This tightens the greencard scheme by tightening the criteria for extension and by postponing the right to bring family until the person has been at work. Finally, I would like to highlight the balance we create with companies. With the bill, we make it easier for companies that simply want skilled foreign employees and follow the rules, but at the same time we keep a close eye on companies that do not follow the rules. We are strengthening control and we are tightening the penalties for companies that illegally employ foreigners, because we will not accept companies that are helping to undermine Danish pay and working conditions. The agreement on the reform of international recruitment, which is reflected in the draft law, has a key and important impact on companies' continued ability to attract skilled labour. It ensures growth and secures jobs. At the same time, the bill will mean that we will strengthen the fight against social dumping. It is based on a number of other agreements, including: the latest Finance Act that we in the government have made with SF and Enhedslisten. It is a collective effort in which, with one hand, we ensure that we have better opportunities to have qualified labour that we need, and with the other hand, we strengthen that those who come here actually end up where they are qualified to be, and not at the bottom of our labour market, in very fierce competition with the Danish unemployed. It is social democratic heartblood that work in Denmark is carried out on wage and working conditions that are similar to what we are used to in Denmark on proper pay and working conditions. And that is how it should continue to be, and it supports this bill, which is why the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101902	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101905	Thank you. I acknowledge that there are some excellent things in this bill. There are also some nasty things I will return to later. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: the rapporteur is well aware that there is very high unemployment among graduates in this country. It is somewhere between a quarter and a third of those who are unemployed, even one year after they are newly educated. These are at least some of the facts we have in this area, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it particularly sensible in such a situation to make further concessions for companies' ability to import highly trained labour when we have so many unemployed academics?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121101958	We fully share the concern that there are a great many of our young, particularly newly educated academics, graduates who cannot get a job. It is a problem in Denmark and it is a problem throughout Europe, and I think it is a problem we are talking about too little about. However, it is not necessarily the same as that the young person who is struggling to get a place in the labour market fits exactly into what some of our major international companies need right now. That is why it is also very important that we discuss first of all whether we are training our young people in the right direction or training them for unemployment; secondly, that we make know-how pilot schemes, etc., which can be a wedge into the labour market for young people so that they can gain a foothold; and thirdly, that we are still responding to the fact that some companies need a special professor from Seoul or a very special employee from South America. There may be many needs that do not necessarily match with the newly trained Aalborg University.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102057	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102100	I fully agree that it is not the case that all these many newly trained academics who cannot find a job just fit in. Probably some of them do, and a lot of them don't. This should then be resolved with a much more targeted focus on continuing training rather than on importing outside labour. That's one thing. The second point is, of course, whether the rapporteur can confirm that this draft law has been put together in such a way that there is no requirement on companies or, for that matter, universities that want to have foreign students in more detail, that they have to prove that there is a real need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102141	I do not entirely share the view that what our young unemployed graduates need is more education. Many of them have gone to school continuously for 20 years. A lot of them need to get their feet inside, get some soil under their nails, get some space on the Danish labour market. That is also why the things we do, for example. have tried with the knowledge pilot scheme, etc., are steps in the right direction, because it is not more schooling that many of them here need. At the same time, that is also why we are trying to be a little forward-looking by discussing dimensioning by asking if you are training for the right thing. On the second part, I would say that it is true that you can bring foreign workers here if you think you have needs and if you cannot find them on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102234	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102246	Thank you. I can already tell you that the Danish People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the bill, because we have made an agreement in this area. After all, this bill translates parts of the agreement that has been reached. Part of the agreement and the aim of the bill is, of course, that it should be quicker for companies to recruit highly trained international labour. In this agreement, in this draft law, it is also a matter of targeting, so that some of those who come in today, who are not highly educated, get a little harder on it, so I think that targeting is actually quite reasonable, and there are also several good arguments for that. The draft law also proposes that the recruitment of highly qualified foreign workers should include: is strengthened by the fact that there is a so-called fast track system, which means that some companies that meet certain criteria can be approved by the authorities so that they can get some employees into the existing arrangements a little faster than everyone else, thus enabling employees to start working more quickly. We in the Danish People's Party have stressed in the negotiations that control of this area is in order, that we are sure that what people are pretending to be is what they actually are and that we are good at checking the documents and so on. Then there will also be some more flexible rules for researchers. We have been told in the Danish People's Party by wise people that the best researchers in the world do not work full time in a single university. Some of them, not all of them, work at several different universities in several different countries, and therefore there was a need if Denmark would attract some of these skilled researchers and also maintain some of them that they should have the opportunity to work a little shorter time at a Danish university while working at one or more universities abroad. It also comes with this bill, and that is quite good. Then there is also a proposal to limit international students' access to unemployment benefits. This is something we are happy about in the Danish People's Party and have also worked for. We do not think that there is any reason, whether you have a good education or not, for you can get access to Danish unemployment benefit in this case so relatively quickly, even though you have spent some time taking an education in Denmark. If you have taken an education in Denmark and Denmark needs the labour you can offer, you have to work instead of being on unemployment benefits. So that part is quite excellent. Then the draft law and the agreement also contain proposals to strengthen and streamline control efforts in a number of areas. It shall be earmarked, inter alia, for: More resources for the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency to participate with the police in controls, so that efforts can be increased in some of the cross-cutting efforts that are so finely described in the area of authority, including helping to combat social dumping. Then there will also be increased control on e.g. Agriculture to ensure that the conditions for residence permits are respected and they are complied with. Then there will also be more focus on and more resources allocated to ensuring that you can better check that the documents are in order, because unfortunately we have seen examples of some who say that they are highly educated foreigners, and then when you check their documents, it turns out that they may not be so highly educated anyway. It is also being cheated in this area, which is why it is important that control in this area is in order. It is being adjusted up with this initiative, and we think that is quite reasonable. One of the things that has been crucial for the Dansk Folkeparti to be included in this agreement is to tighten up the greencard scheme. We would prefer in the Danish People's Party that the greencard scheme was completely abolished, but there are some tightenings in this bill. A reduction in the number of entries on the greencard system is expected. This means that there will be fewer highly educated foreigners in Denmark, but it does not matter either, because if there are too many people today, then there will have to be fewer forward-looking ones, and we have seen some examples of, although Danish Industry and others claim that they lack a lot of highly educated foreigners, that there are a lot of them already in Denmark; they are for example. You get up here on the greencard scheme, and you don't hire them. And when you don't hire them, it has to be because you don't need them. That is why we think it is very good that this system should be tightened up, but, as I said, the best thing would be to abolish it altogether. We also believe that the necessary labour force, which cannot be found anywhere else in Denmark or in the European Union, must come up here on other schemes. We also think it is good that, as a new thing, demands are being made of those who then come up with a slightly stricter greencard system that if they want the family up here, they must have a job. That should actually be self-evident, but at least now you are implementing that if you want to bring your family up here, you also need to work, and that also increases the possibility that you are able to support your family. So there are some excellent things in this bill. Then there are also some things in the legislative proposal and in the agreement that we do not like very much, but that is how it is when compromises are reached. As far as the green card system is concerned, we would prefer it to be abolished, but we have come some way along the way, which is why we naturally support the legislative proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102748	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102751	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now we've heard two rapporteurs from two powerful parties, the Left and the Danish People's Party don't worry, there's always something wrong when you praise the Danish People's Party; it comes soon, perhaps. But, fortunately, they are not as powerful as they would like to be, at least not at the moment, and they have both said that they would like to see the greencard system abolished. If you dive into the inner guts of Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, who gave the lead speech just now, then I think you will see that she shares the same opinion. Then it is just that one wonders why the green card system has not been abolished with the settlement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102843	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102844	It is an excellent question, and I think the answer must be that when the Danish People's Party at the negotiating table pressed for the abolition of the greencard system, the battle was a little more lonely there than it is in the media and in the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102858	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102859	Is it to be understood in this way that the Danish People's Party did not feel that they had help from the Left at the negotiating table? Because I think that the rapporteur of the Left was very, very clear about spitting here not long ago: one wanted to get rid of that green card scheme. In other reforms, we have seen the two parties unite, for example. in the reform of cash benefits and others seen through Enhedslisten's spectacles boring reforms that have been made. There the two parties have put some scary fingerprints, and then perhaps they could have put a good fingerprint in this case, namely by abolishing that scheme. So what happened? Have you not received the support of the Left, which one here from the platform might get the impression there should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102942-2	I have no objection to criticising the Left when I think the Left should be criticised. But I really don't think they should do that in this case. On the contrary, I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen must look at the government he supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121102954	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lone Loklinde as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121103012	I am here today instead of our labour market rapporteur, Mr. Nadeem Farooq, and I am very pleased about that, because today is a very good day because we are dealing with a legislative proposal that improves the possibilities for international recruitment. It is a reform that was agreed by a broad majority in the spring, which is now being transposed into law. In a small open economy like ours, it is important that we become even better at reaching the distant international markets, which is precisely why it is so important that we are open to external impulses and that many more companies, than is the case today, are thinking internationally. Well-qualified employees from other countries and other cultures provide us not only with their professional skills, but also with insight into other ways of seeing the world and other ways of solving tasks, giving inspiration to Danish colleagues, both in terms of working methods and marketing of products on export markets. By making it easier for companies to attract foreign labour and to maintain it more easily, we strengthen companies in international competition and thereby strengthen opportunities for more jobs in Denmark. Reform is needed because several of the existing arrangements simply do not work well enough. This is true, for example. The greencard scheme. The idea is not that highly qualified foreigners should come to Denmark to work as unskilled workers. It is neither optimal for themselves nor for the Danish companies. Documentation is being tightened up and the requirements for extension are being tightened up. If you are a family member, you must also have a job first and also be able to provide for the family. It is all to support companies' need for highly qualified labour. The research scheme is also being significantly improved so that we avoid square rules on full-time employment requirements. There will be greater flexibility for change in job descriptions and for PhD students and PhD employees at all. I find it particularly interesting that, after completing the Master's degree or PhD degree, international students can apply for an establishment card and thus for 2 years have the opportunity to work, start a business or work part-time without having to apply for a new residence permit, provided of course they are self-supporting. It is a new and exciting scheme, which is also an appeal to Danish employers to take the chance and try to hire foreign graduates. The fixed track scheme is intended to allow companies and public institutions to be certified to be able to employ international workers without waiting for a long process of work and residence permits. It has long been in demand and, of course, it has to work, so everyone thinks it is as intended. The attraction of foreign entrepreneurs is a new experimental scheme, which I have great expectations of, and although it is a scheme limited to 50 people per year, I think it will be exciting to see what international entrepreneurs can bring to Denmark. The proposal therefore strikes a good balance between attracting highly qualified foreign workers and at the same time ensuring that this is done on Danish wages and working conditions and avoiding social dumping. There will be more control and tighter rules in some contexts, but also reliefs which will make it easier for companies to get hold of highly qualified employees who are so important to international competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121103400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121103414	The fight against social dumping is incredibly important to the SF. It is unacceptable for Danish jobs to be undermined by a gross underpayment by employers, and we know that tax and VAT payments are being cheated. It is also, in fact, an undermining of the many Danish companies who, fortunately, want to follow the rules. The SF has therefore worked to abolish the green card system and, speaking of the debate that was held in this Chamber a moment ago, I can say that we have made this very clear in the negotiations so that no one could misunderstand it. It is an untenable situation for Pakistani and Indian academics to be lured here and to believe that it is very easy to get academic work as a foreigner. As you know, it is not, and it usually ends with human tragedies. These highly educated people are not going to use their education at all, but are driving a taxi, cleaning or dispatching in a kiosk, and often making it a gross underpayment by the employer, because these people are in an incredible squeeze. They are struggling to survive, and so employers can exploit them. The fact is that we already have many thousands of unemployed, yes, tens of thousands of unemployed people in Denmark who are unskilled and who can easily take a job as a taxi driver, as a cleaning assistant or clerk in a kiosk. Some of these unfortunate Asian academics, who are being lured here, really end up in black work or getting into crime to survive. All in all, the green card system is a really bad system at a time of unemployment, because the people who come from third countries come here without having already got a job in this country. Unfortunately, in the negotiations we did not succeed in abolishing the system, but we came a good deal along the way and it is expected that the number of green card permits will drop to about half the number of bad ones, and that is a good step on the way. A large number of restrictions are being imposed. For example: The greencard scheme targets areas where there is a shortage of highly skilled labour in Denmark, the period of greencard is reduced from 3 years to 2 years, and you can only get an extension if you earn at least 315,000 DKK. in the second year. This will also help to reduce the number. Another scheme which has been grossly abused is the farmers' internship scheme, under which Ukrainians in particular have worked for farmers in Denmark for an underpayment of about 10,000 DKK. per month before tax • if tax is paid • and the SF has also required an intervention against this. Although it is called an education system, there are many examples of the Ukrainians who have come here having often completed their education many years ago, and the training they have taken has in many cases had nothing to do with agriculture. Yes, one must pinch oneself in the arm and say: It is marvellous that it can take place in Danish society. But the Danish farmers have had a great interest in getting a cheap labour force for a rough underpayment, and they have got away with that, unfortunately. From now on, it will be tightened up so that residence and work permits will only be granted if they are part of an education and control will be strengthened. The internship period is reduced from 11⁄2 years to only 1 year and the age limit is reduced from 35 years to 30 years. All in all, these are restrictions, which include: The trade union 3F assesses points in the right direction, and in SF we see it the same way. Then I will return to another section of this comprehensive legislation we are discussing today. SF believes that it is good and will benefit Danish companies and the creation of jobs that companies like for example. ISS and Vestas will be able to get their key employees and highly trained specialists from their foreign departments to Denmark more quickly to work for a period of time. In accordance with detailed rules, companies can be certified so that they avoid the normally 30-day processing time and can get the employee here from day one, the so-called fasttrack scheme. These are people who have been given a job here before entering Denmark, and the income requirement is at least DKK 375,000. annual. This bill also changes the rules for the employment of foreign labour so that control of it is made more effective. Among other things: Increased data collection for foreign workers through increased rights for the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency. It is also good that it is established that no work and residence permit can be issued for conflict-affected positions, both main conflicts and contractual conflicts of sympathy. We also think it is good that a better arrangement is being made for researchers and students to come here; we believe that in the longer term it will benefit Danish society's creativity and whole development that there will be increased opportunities in that area. So all in all, the SF can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121103928	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121103930	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now we can hear the rapporteur from a third powerful party saying that it would have liked to have abolished the green card system. Can the rapporteur explain to me what happened at that negotiating table? Who has blocked the abolition of this system? The second question is: does the rapporteur think it is good to have some arrangements for the import of foreign labour • highly educated or less educated, but now it is the highly educated that we are talking about where employers should not prove that there is actually a need? The third question is: does the rapporteur think it is a good idea to abolish the right to graduation allowance for foreign students?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104014	It's very comprehensive to have to answer. It's 11⁄2 minutes I have, right? President. - I call the Group of the European People's One minute! So, as far as the green card system is concerned, I would like to say that the negotiations were now closed, but in my view there are parties who could have expressed their desire to close the system more clearly. However, as I mentioned in my speech, the SF has made this demand very clear and, I would say, incomprehensible. As far as the need for labour is concerned, that is to say that there are, for example, I believe that we live in such a globalised world that it is also appropriate for companies in Denmark that have foreign departments that there are employees from there who can come here and work, just as there are Danish employees who can enter the foreign departments. For example, I have. a neighbour who has worked in India for a period of time for the multinational group in which he is employed. And I think it's good for the Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104119	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104121	Thank you. I recognise that these were three questions and the rapporteur was able to answer the first two. I am not entirely satisfied with the answers, but leave it at that, because my time is not that long either. So I would like the rapporteur to address the issue of graduation allowance to foreign students, i.e. whether the rapporteur thinks it is a good idea to deprive them of the right to do so if they want to continue on one of the new arrangements that are being opened up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104153	Well, now I'm gonna be honest and say it's so comprehensive a legal complex that it's not all the factors in it that I just have one hundred percent figured out at this moment. However, I would like to say that we generally have a problem of paying attention to how many foreign employees have access to the Danish benefit system. Well, that's something that Enhedslisten is also aware of. I would also like to stress that, as far as our discussion before us is concerned, when we say 'yes' to companies being able to get certain kinds of labour to do so in an easy way, this applies precisely to highly specialised, high-paid labour, whereas we are totally opposed to what the Left and Conservatives are now proposing in future: that we should also be able to get unskilled and skilled workers from third countries to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104240	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104244	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. I think that a good deal of attention has been paid to foreign workers from Ukraine, such as Ukraine. contribute to agriculture. That's where I'm gonna ask you, sir. Eigil Andersen, about Mr. Eigil Andersen can confirm that with the scheme that is and will be, it will be the case that you have to be employed on the usual terms of employment according to Danish conditions, also for that group, so it is not a completely out-of-date wage dumping or anything else. That is one question. The second is whether the SF's rapporteur knows what the average salary is for such a feed master? Because you get the impression that they go too lye and cold water. So, what does an average feed master like that earn on average? I don't expect any clear crowns and ear-wise real numbers, but such a punch on the bag, maybe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104345	The last thing I want to avoid, because it can only go wrong. So I will not do that, but I would like to say that there are several examples where there are trainees under this scheme who have come here and who have received salaries of 10,000 kroner. per month, and I can certainly say that is not fair. I agree with the Left that what is happening in this agreement now is that it is being tightened up and there will be increased monitoring that conditions are in order and the internship period will also be reduced. It also means that if there were to slip through an exploitation process which I do not hope will be a shorter time. So that is the way things have progressed, at least one can say. I think it is distasteful that there are Danish farmers who are speculating on this labour force, and I also think that if you have a labour demand, it can then be well covered by the Eastern European EU countries, where there is free movement of labour. This poses a number of problems for us, but at least farmers could use some workers from Eastern European EU countries instead of going to third countries, that is to say outside the European Union, as Ukraine is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104459	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104501	I just think that one has to recognise that one cannot just remove such a system with a fingertips. After all, Danish agricultural production will be destroyed if 600 men are pulled out who are useful in production. The truth is, when you ask everyone, including people in the trade union movement, that then no Danes are ready to take over some of these jobs. I can tell you, sir. Eigil Andersen, that an average feed champion gets 27,000 • 28,000 kr., and the problem is that there are no Danes who want these jobs. Don't impress me, sir. Eigil Andersen, that there really aren't people in the trade union movement who admit that Danes are interested in taking these jobs, so we have to use outside labour. Why doesn't the SF admit that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104546	If there is such a problem that people in terms of education and interest do not think it is the most obvious place for them to work it is not an 8-16 job, for example, it must be recognized that I would recommend that Danish farmers use labour from Eastern European countries. I think that the move by the Left to also want to invite workers here from Ukraine and Argentina and South Korea is a quite wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104621	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121104645	Thank you. There are some good things in this bill that, in isolation, can limit the abuse of highly trained workers from third countries. This is true, for example. the tightening-up of the greencard system. I should just like to add that the Enhedslisten, as a not in any way powerful party, would also like to be involved in abolishing that regime, so that there is a majority, if everyone stands by what they have said. There is the abolition of the group scheme and there are restrictions on the use of trainees. It is also positive that no work and residence permit can be granted for employment in a company affected by a collective dispute. Of course, these improvements need to be recognised. At the same time, however, new concessions are being introduced which take the other direction: the fast track system and the establishment map. The problem is that there are no conditions in relation to the scope or nature of the work. Both systems will therefore, despite the constraints imposed on them, be new loopholes for highly trained workers to come to the country but end up in jobs that do not correspond to their level of education. It is also a question, as the radical rapporteur pointed out, of easing the requirement for full-time employment. If we take the rigours of the green card system, then they are not enough to protect against abuse. It is still possible for highly educated foreigners to work for up to two years as unskilled workers. As the LO pointed out, the limit is far too low, namely 315,000 DKK. All inclusive. Nor is it satisfactory that, in order to be able to continue in the scheme, one should be able to document only an income of DKK 50,000. in the first year following the issue of greencard. But the fundamental problem with all these schemes is that there is no requirement for proof from employers that there is a real need to import labour. And then I would say that it does not matter whether we are talking in this case about highly trained labour or low-skilled labour. Social dumping, regardless of what kind of air it is going on in terms of wages, is something that we must work against. Then it is totally unacceptable that the draft law envisages depriving newly trained people of the right to unemployment benefit at the rate of graduating as a condition for giving them greencards or establishment cards. Firstly, it is a clear breach of the principle that should apply to all foreign workers' access to the Danish labour market, highly educated or low-skilled, namely the principle that they should be welcome, but it must be done on equal terms. Same duties, same rights. But here you want to put foreign members of an unemployment fund lower than Danish. Secondly, the purpose of this change is very worrying. After all, there is no hiding that the reason why they are not allowed to receive a graduation allowance is that they should get a job. Whether they are receiving an allowance or not, that is the whole benefit system, so what is the argument? However, since there are no demands on the nature of the job, such a measure is proposed here, a clear call to take any job and participate in the competition for jobs that do not correspond at all to one's level of education. Thirdly, if, on that basis, you can remove the right to graduation allowance for foreigners, then you can do so in relation to all other graduates. Perhaps this is really a test balloon sent up to see how much resistance, the trade union movement and the parties in the Folketing are doing against this clear deterioration. This tightening would in itself be sufficient for the Enhedslisten not to be able to vote in favour of the draft law, but, in addition, it must be said that there are some basic prerequisites for us to vote in favour of such a bill. If we want to introduce various concessions for additional imports of labour and students, then we need some documentation: proof that such imports are actually needed, and this requirement is completely lacking in this bill. There is only one way to ensure that imports of labour do not lead to social dumping, and these are three conditions: there must be a written offer for a contract of employment, where it is clear that the employment takes place under normal pay and employment conditions. The draft law follows a piece of paper, but it must be the case that such a contract of employment has been approved by the relevant trade union, which has the right of negotiation for the area in question, and then there must be a written acceptance by the local social partners confirming that there is indeed a need to import the labour in question. With such simple and unbureaucratic measures, we will be able to import labour without social dumping, but this is completely lacking in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105206	There are a few brief comments, first Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105212	I just have to say that I am a little puzzled by Enhedslisten's demands for it to be documented how labour is needed from outside. Can the rapporteur go a little further on how a company, for example? should be able to prove that you need an Indian IT engineer or anyone else? I mean, how do you prove that you've found exactly the right employee in India? How are you supposed to prove that you have that need?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105248	Well, you have to document that on the basis of what unemployment is and what is of the supply of labour already in that area. And I would like to remind you that the basic premise, the fundamental idea of the Aliens Act, is in fact what I am saying. Unfortunately, this is not so strongly formulated in relation to the influence of the social partners, but it is, of course, in other areas and as a rule in the law on foreigners, that the social partners have a right of consultation, precisely to ensure that there is no unemployment in the field of labour imports. So it is not so complicated, you just have to ask those who know about it, namely the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105334	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105335	In relation to what the rapporteur said about the lack of opportunity for foreign graduates to obtain unemployment benefits, I would like to ask whether it is not a strange logic for companies to be able to prove that they need to employ foreign graduates rather than to be able to obtain unemployment benefits. Can the rapporteur explain why graduates should be entitled to a daily allowance, but at the same time it will be required for employers to be able to explain why they need foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105426	These are two different situations. One is about what the conditions must be for people to be able to import labour, and there we just have the basic view that if there is unemployment in the area in question, there is no need to import labour. It's as simple as that. And that is why employers must prove that there is indeed a need and ask the social partners whether they agree with the basic idea of the law on foreigners, that is just the one that needs to be tightened up and made perfectly clear. The second is, of course, that these people are, that is, that some members of an unemployment fund have less rights than other members of the same fund. This completely contradicts the Enhedslisten's views that foreign workers who have come here should have the same duties and therefore also have the same rights as residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105536	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105539	I would like to ask Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Finn Sørensen, if he agrees that with this bill there is less social dumping in the skilled and unskilled sector in Denmark through changes to the greencard scheme and the internship scheme, among other things. for the farmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105601	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we can take the changes that are made and seen in isolation and say: yes, in isolation there are some improvements and some tightenings. As the rapporteur himself said, the only effective thing in relation to the green card system is to abolish it completely, and I cannot really understand why, with all the parties who have said that they would like to do so, it has not happened. We cannot then have a look at that, that is what has happened at the negotiating table, but we can begin to see who has not then indicated that it was important for them to abolish the green card system. However, as I said: yes, there have been isolated tightenings and improvements to the various schemes. We do not think that the improvements are sufficient to face the voters and the professional groups concerned and to say that social dumping has now been prevented; the measures proposed by the Enhedslisten must be done at the same time as the introduction of two other schemes which do not prevent the exact same problem as we have with the green card system, namely the introduction of highly trained workers, who will then actually end up in jobs where the level of training and my misunderstanding now do not exist, because there is no hierarchy in what is far below what the imported labour has.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105723	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105725	In other words, if we now agree that the problem of social dumping in Denmark today is greatest in the skilled and unskilled sectors of the LO, and we think that the number of those who come here will be halved because of the restrictions that have been introduced into the green card scheme, then we must note that there are improvements in this area, and that is why the SF has said yes to it. With regard to the arrangements mentioned by the rapporteur, which open it up, I do not think that is right, but we can come back to that on a later occasion, because my speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105806	Thank you. Well, like the rapporteur, we consider the legislative proposal in its entirety, and we have to do so. In other words, we have to look at: what is the overall impact of this legislative proposal with the arrangements that are being tightened up and the additional possibilities that are being opened up? And there is no guarantee that these arrangements will have exactly the same consequences as those already in place, plus that there is also the fact that I have also pointed out and that the rapporteur has not really dealt with the fact that there is a clear and unacceptable tightening up of the rights of foreign cashiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105849	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121105900	Maybe I'll have to think about waiting until Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen has had to sit down and say that some people are actually happy that the greencard system is being maintained. It's just that you don't leave the Chamber with the impression that nobody said that. The bill here translates parts of the agreement on the reform of international recruitment that was concluded earlier this year. The Liberal Alliance has no doubt that skilled labour from abroad is an important source of future growth and prosperity. When companies can easily attract skilled labour, the productivity of companies increases, and this benefits Danish companies, Danish employees and the Danish welfare society. The bill helps to ensure that Denmark is more able to recruit highly qualified foreign labour. Overall, the proposal contains many positive elements, creating clear improvements and simplifications of existing legislation. Thus, the bill helps to ensure that Denmark has reasonable framework conditions that help Danish companies attract skilled employees from abroad without being met with too much bureaucracy. Specifically, the draft law's new fasttracking system, the administrative facilitations and the preservation of the greencard scheme are once again good measures which improve the conditions of Danish companies and foreign workers and which comply with the principles of the agreement on the reform of international recruitment. If the Liberal Alliance had decided itself, it would of course have been a little different, because our starting point is that anyone who has a contract with a Danish company should have the opportunity to work in Denmark, of course, unless he commits crime or other crime, then he must return home. However, we think that companies should have much more access to foreign labour than they do today and than they have under this agreement. However, we welcome the agreement and we welcome the fact that, on the basis of current legislation, a green card system is being maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110117	Sir. Eigil Andersen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110121	Yes, it was the last remarks that led me to ask a question. For now the situation is such that the Left Party will say yes to labour from Argentina and South Korea, as mentioned earlier, if they get a job of DKK 215,000. a year. Conservatives will demand an income of DKK 315,000. Every year, and that's all the countries they bring with them. Is it to be understood, as far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, that the Liberal Alliance means that every person from all over the world who comes to Denmark and gets a job must be allowed to have it, without any income requirements, i.e. 0 DKK. in income requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110207	Perhaps the rapporteur has understood our position, perhaps not entirely, so I am just trying to clarify it a little. It is not the case that everyone comes to Denmark. The whole point is that you must have the contract before you come to Denmark. That is a pretty crucial requirement. In addition, it must be a work which, of course, is on ordinary pay and working conditions. This means that if there is an agreement, you are immediately approved and otherwise you have the opportunity to be approved by the immigration authorities for a fasttrack scheme, so to speak, all a la what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110246	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110249	I believe that we are facing a very big issue here in the forthcoming election campaign and I simply do not believe that the Danes will be involved in this. Because it is easy to imagine that the Danish Employers' Association or the Danish Industry gets in touch with some recruitment companies in different places in the world, and then there can easily be established arrangements where you can then get a contract of employment. I understand that the Liberal Alliance simply does not want to impose any income requirements at all. You just have to get a job when you get to the country. I think it is distasteful and it is very damaging to 133 000 unemployed people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110329	So, I think it is the question that is distasteful, because it shows once again the total lack of imagination that exists in the SF when it comes to finding solutions. There is a party programme which deals with the world in the 20th century and not the 21st century. We are talking about whether Danish companies can obtain qualified labour. We are talking about the possibility of creating growth and even more jobs for the benefit of the Danish people. The question is whether you want to sit with your old-fashioned attitudes to the detriment of Danish employees, to the detriment of the Danish welfare community, or whether you want to help ensure that we can have the prosperity that can ensure that we can also have proper hospitals, proper education in the future. That is what concerns us in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110425	But I am once again in a situation where I can in fact both thank my predecessor in office and the rapporteurs for the fact that a conciliation has been reached, which is now being translated into a legislative proposal which has a broad majority in the Folketing behind it. I am not going to prolong the debate here by presenting the intentions underlying the draft law. I think the rapporteurs have done quite well. I would actually just like to say that I think that now with the bill we are ensuring that the right person for the right job can now be found, that companies can continue to grow and not be prevented by a shortage of skilled labour, and that this is done under the conditions that we want in Denmark, namely on the terms of pay and employment we have. I think this is an excellent legislative proposal, which fences in some good, important principles. This allows companies to continue to grow and create new jobs in Denmark. So I would just like to say to the Danish Parliament that I think we have had a good fundamental debate here, and I will help the legislative procedure to go as smoothly and painlessly through the committee as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110540	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110544	Thank you. As I also said in the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's speech, there are good and less good things in this bill. But I would really like to hear from the Minister why the government has been so determined to maintain the green card system. There will be some tightening-up of the greencard scheme, and we are pleased about that in the Danish People's Party. Tightenings, which are necessary tightenings, are of course welcome. But basically, this is a system that takes foreign labour, and it is certainly highly trained foreign labour, but labour, which we have seen a large number of examples of companies not hiring, despite the fact that they say they lack it. What is actually the main reason why the government will not go all the way to abolish a regime that several government representatives have actually criticized quite strongly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110630	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110631	It is, of course, a rather strange question to get, all the time that I have the feeling that Mr. Martin Henriksen has been involved in all the negotiations that have taken place and that have ended up in this conciliation, which I understood to be the same as Mr Martin Henriksen. Martin Henriksen agreed and would vote in favour. So I can just say for my own part that I have come in and read the bill, where the text of the agreement was pretty much in place, that we ensure that Danish jobs have the opportunity to constantly create further dynamism in their companies and thus also create opportunities for even more jobs. There is no doubt to me that there may be examples of them needing specialized labour, and that can then be obtained through the greencard system and we have it, as Mr. Martin Henriksen himself expressed himself, the fence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110721	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110723	It is true that we are doing that here and it is a step in the right direction. There are also other things that are excellent, for example. more flexible rules for researchers, etc.; we certainly have no objection to that in the Danish People's Party; there may be good arguments for that. But I just have to understand: what really is the government's argument for maintaining the green card system? For why should we actually have an arrangement that attracts foreigners to Denmark, regardless of whether they are highly educated or not? What is the real reason for being so determined to preserve it? We are grateful that we have tightened up, but why do we really have to have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110810	I just have to go somewhere and repeat the same answer to the same question. Well, we have now, also in cooperation with Mr. Martin Henriksen, ensuring that the fact that you get here on the greencard system is more targeted, that is to say that you will be using your qualifications. And then I believe that if you look through the texts here, you will also see that Danish companies that need some specially trained labour, whether they come from India, Pakistan or where they come from, can get it, so that there will be no situation where companies cannot continue to develop and grow because they lack skilled labour. Because I think that has been found and I would like to thank the conciliation parties and the rapporteurs for a sensible balance here, which I fully endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110855	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110913	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121110934	Thank you. Now that we are dealing with this proposal, let me start by taking a very, very strong stand against the attitudes expressed by individuals associated with the Grimhøjmosque in the media. Is that the wrong speech? Nevertheless, I believe that there is reason to distance ourselves. Laughter I'm gonna take some other material. But there is good reason to reject some of the attitudes we have seen from individuals over at the Grimhøjmoskeen, but we will come back to that in the next reading. I'm sorry for the misunderstanding here. It is not now because the theme we will then have to discuss concerning B 10 is necessarily so far from here, understood in the sense that some of what we are discussing here are some of the garments that are unfortunately seen in some places in the street picture in Denmark. Let me just start by making it absolutely clear that wearing niqab or burka in my eyes is basically an expression of female expression. It is a women's oppressive instrument and there is every reason to reject it. In the government and as a government, we have the basic view that we want an open and democratic society where we trust each other, respect each other, where no one is excluded from the community and where there are no social standards that suppress in any way whatsoever. Back in 2009, there was a debate about banning burka and niqab in public spaces. At that time, the Ministry of Justice was most inclined to believe that a ban on burka and niqab would mean that, because of their creed, some were deprived of access to the full enjoyment of what is called civil and political rights. At that time, the Ministry of Justice considered that there was considerable doubt as to whether a prohibition would constitute a legitimate exception to the principle of equality contained in Paragraph 70 of the Constitution. In addition, the Ministry of Justice considered at that time that there was considerable doubt as to whether a ban on carrying burka in public space would comply with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights on Freedom of Religion and Freedom of Freedom of expression. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party today is different, on relevant points, from the proposal made in 2009 to ban burka and niqab. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wants a general ban, and they propose that an objective demand be made for all forms of masking and covering clothing in public spaces, with the exception of particularly legitimate cases. The authors of the motion even stress that this is not a ban specifically aimed at certain religious garments, but rather a general ban on covering the face in public spaces. The concern to be taken with the ban must be understood as social cohesion in Denmark. Another thing that is also new since 2009 is that in July of this year the European Court of Human Rights delivered a judgment in a case in which the Court did not consider that a French ban on covering the face in public spaces constituted an infringement of the provisions of the Convention on religious freedom and the right to privacy. The key question then is whether, within the framework of both the Danish constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, it will be possible to draw up a ban on masking or covering the face in the public space. I am not dealing specifically with the ban proposed in the motion for a resolution, but I would like to give some of the legal assessments and thus to consider whether, in general terms, a ban could be drawn up in some form against masking and facial clothing. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the answer to that question is yes. There are, however, some prerequisites that must be met. This includes, among other things, the fact that the ban is intended to achieve what is called a worthy purpose of recognition. The prohibition must not be designed in such a way as to constitute discrimination on the grounds of creed or discrimination on grounds of facts so closely related to the creed that the result will be close to the same. If these conditions are not met, e.g. Because the aim of a ban is to discriminate on grounds of creed, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, a ban raises real doubts about compatibility with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. But it's And it also means, if you have to say it very directly, that, according to the Ministry of Justice's assessment, there is only the political discussion, and that is not a legal discussion. I think that is actually quite good because, in all respect for law, it is, I think, often awkward if that is where we have to end a political debate. So we can do it and then today's debate in the Chamber is whether or not we want to do it. There I would like to tie a loop to what I started by saying, namely that I welcome and I would like to say very, very clearly in no way that there are women who go covered as you see it with burka and niqab. I think it is not just a garment or a cloth, it is, in my view, the expression of structural and systematic repression of one sex, and it is based on an ideological desire to hide women and prevent women from having full participation in society. It does not belong anywhere, even in my view in Afghanistan and Pakistan, where it is very widespread, and certainly not in an open, modern, democratic society such as ours in 2014. So today, when we on the part of the government cannot back the bill, it is not, and I would like to stress that, because we in any way welcome the use of neither niqab nor burka in Denmark at all. It is a repressive mechanism which expresses both a wrong view of people and a wrong view of women, it is undemocratic in its basic premise and, as I said before, I do not think it belongs in Denmark, and I also believe that it basically prevents a respectful meeting between people. If we then end up not supporting the motion for a resolution, it is because we do not think that a general ban on clothing is the right solution. I think that the relatively small scale of the problem fortunately in Denmark is a far too large and violent step to make a general ban and general legislation. That is why we cannot support the proposal. But there should be no doubt whatsoever about this, and I hope that after my speech today, Burka and Niqab are the expression of a women's oppressive vision which I do not think we should in any way support either in Denmark or in other societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121111748	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121111751	Political words must be followed up by political action, and let us now get some action in this area, which I sense we are actually agreed on; it will send a really, very good signal to the extreme individuals and groupings that we have in Denmark that there is a clear limit and that it draws Parliament, among other things. Here. That would be very good, so it is a call for it. But I would also like to say that I think it is a good thing, and it is something new, that both the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice now clearly and clearly indicate that this is actually possible. This is not contrary to the Constitution, and it is not contrary to what the European Court of Human Rights says, but it is a matter of political will. So I really think it would suit the Minister for Justice and the government and all other parties in here that when you talk about being opposed to women's oppression when you talk about being opposed to Islamism and fundamentalism, you send a clear signal that this is the limit. So it may not be so much a question, but more a call to the Minister of Justice to go home and think about it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121111904	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121111906	Let me repeat that what is considered by the Ministry of Justice is that it is legally possible to draw up a general ban on masking or facial covering, and that this means that there must be a worthy purpose. What is, of course, very striking for the debate here is that both I, as Minister of Justice and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, are dealing only with the Burka issue, because that is probably what the resolution is about. And that is why I probably also have to say that if it was on the basis that you wanted to make legislation, it is not certain that you would legally consider it to be worthy of recognition, because I think it is the burka issue that runs the Danish People's Party, and I think that is OK. That it is. Nor do I believe that burkas belong in any society, and certainly not in the Danish one. I do not believe that there is anything that legitimises the control of other people... and, as such, niqabben is also an expression of. But I repeat again: a general ban will be possible in legal terms, but it must be with the right motive, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112008	This is a new statement in relation to the discussion we have had over several years, namely that it is possible to draw up a general ban. I would like to say that what the Danish People's Party is proposing here is a general ban. What the Danish People's Party is proposing here is exactly the same as the European Court of Human Rights has approved in France. And I do not think there is any doubt in France as to why politicians, with a very massive majority, have introduced a general ban on full-scale suits. It was basically because one wanted to do away with the woman's vision and the human vision that lies behind... [Sound Fallout]. I mean, this approach... [Sound Outlook].
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112102	[Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112141	There are some problems with the sound. It's swinging a little... [Soundshot]. It's sir. Christian Langballe to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112152	I also think it's a hugely good bill... [Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112306	[Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112307	[Sound emission]... employers who want to hire women who look like that. It is also part of the thinking of such clothing that you should not go to work because you are a woman. So, excuse me, it's crazy to look at other people like that. Here it is half the population. So it is an obstacle to integration, it is women's oppressive, it is undemocratic in its nature and form, but I would now like to point out that a general ban is a very far-reaching step to take in an issue that, although it has certainly been growing fortunately and after all is relatively small in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112405	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112406	Yeah, well, I guess where that's a problem, it's really a big problem, among other things. In the Gellerup Park. I would like to ask: if this proposal, which I think is a very good one, is not the right way to go, what, according to the Minister of Justice, is the right way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112430	The right way to go is the one we are well on our way with in Denmark. It is, of course, to integrate the people who come here and to ensure that the girls and women with a minority background of one form or another who grow up in Denmark get exactly the same opportunities and take advantage of the same rights as other girls and women do in our society. I guess it's not too much to say that there's been a little revolution. When you look at how many girls with minority backgrounds are doing well in our education system, which subsequently achieves a very, very good link with the labour market and which, moreover, frees itself from some social standards, we are on our way in the right direction. I also think it is important to say that the burka and niqabben are extreme and, fortunately, have to do with a very small proportion of our ethnic minorities. Most people who live here in Denmark wouldn't look like this at all, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112523	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112526	I regret that I will probably go away from politics and return to law, but that is only because the Minister himself mentions the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which the authors also mention in the comments. I understand that the judgment says that you can introduce something, but has the Ministry of Justice looked at how this is, in relation to the grounds for the judgment, more specifically in relation to the wording used by the authors of the motion for a resolution? Has there been some kind of investigation into whether this is really within the limits of the sentence? I do not think that is so clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112615	No, no legal assessment of the motion for a resolution was made. What I said in my speech was that it is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that a general ban could be made within the framework of the Constitution and the Convention. However, no legal assessment of the wordings has been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112630	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Justice. Then we turn to the series of speeches, and the first speaker is Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121112649	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this debate on masking and covering clothing in the public space. The motion for a resolution requires the government to impose a ban on masking and covering clothing in the public domain. According to the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party considers it essential for social cohesion that masking and covering clothing, for example. Burka and niqab are generally banned in public spaces. Now I understand from the Minister that this is not contrary to the Constitution, but I can then continue that, although it is in accordance with the Constitution, we in the Left will not vote in favour because we believe that we must decide for ourselves how to dress. The Left does not want to legislate on clothing. I'm happy to live in a country where I can think, think and believe what I want. I'm glad to live in a country where no one tells me what clothes to wear. In a democracy and the rule of law, personal freedom is crucial, including the right to decide how to dress. I do not like burkas, but in the Left we are of the clear opinion that the state should not decide how adult people should dress. Just because we do not like a garment, it is not the case that we take action and want to ban it. It must be up to women to decide for themselves whether to wear burka or not. That is why it is important to enable women to make those decisions independently. For the Left, it is essential to speak to women and their surroundings, to belong to an open society, to our democracy and to the way we manage and practise freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, to see the face, to see the mime behind the words and the way the sentences are formulated and to see the game on the face. It is very valuable, and that is why we think it is an important debate to take. And there should be no doubt that we in the Left think that burka and niqab are something that represents a repressive view of human beings, a repressive view of women. There must in no way be any doubt about that. I would just like to conclude by summing up that the Left does not believe that it is the Folketing that should decide how to dress when you choose to go outside the four walls of your home. So although we in the Left agree with the Danish People's Party that it is important to promote social cohesion, we will not support the resolution. Finally, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113020	One can almost hear that the new legal assessment by the Ministry of Justice is a surprise to the rapporteurs. I think that is a good thing, because it is an expression of the fact that something new is actually happening in this area. Now I have not brought it forward, but it could be tempting to go in and pull out old quotes from the Left and from the Conservatives and from the Socialists, when everyone thought that such a ban would be contrary to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, because there was the announcement by a great many politicians that it really wanted to be implemented because it symbolizes a certain view of women and people that we do not think should be here in Denmark. But you couldn't because there were legal obstacles. Now the legal obstacles are gone and new arguments have to be found. I would just like to urge you to go back to the old arguments and stick to that point of view and then rejoice that now we politicians can actually do what we want without having to come to some lawyers and tell us what to do. Well, at least take the chance!
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113134	I do not know if there was a question in it, but I should like to answer that if there have been any new excuses? No, these are not new excuses, as the rapporteur said. No, it's freedom. It's actually crucial. That is the freedom to choose for yourself, which leads us here to say that we are voting against. It's the right to decide for yourself. It cannot be right that we at Christiansborg should decide how women dress. But I would like to stress that I would have liked to have seen no women wear burka, no women wear niqab, but I am not the one who should take it off them. It's them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113217	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113220	Imagine if the Folketing had the same approach to social control, to people who entered a forced marriage, that they had to find out for themselves. The Folketing should not help with that, they had to find out for themselves. What if we had that angle of approach to all these areas? That would be quite, quite awful. At least I think so. The good thing about being a politician, being elected by the people, is that sometimes you can get through there. I think the Left should do that. And then this argument that there's freedom. Now I know that the Left is a liberal party, but I guess you are not in favour of unlimited freedom, because unlimited freedom also means that there are some who are strong who use that freedom to suppress someone who is less strong. And if you sometimes want to help those who are not so strong, who dare not resist or cannot resist, because it has serious consequences for them, then it is, of course, that politicians must step in and then fight for their freedom, even if that sometimes means restricting the freedom of some of the a little more powerful, because they use the freedom to suppress some others and take away freedom from those who are oppressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113326	I do not agree with the rapporteur that we must combat those who want freedom by starting to restrict freedom. No, I think we should fight them with our arguments, why freedom is right. Freedom to differ. I don't believe that women see it as a struggle for them if we make a ban. The women who choose to put on niqab, I would rather challenge their opinions and hope that they choose to take it off, rather than go and tell them that it is forbidden and that they cannot bear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113408	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113412	I would like to mention three pictures I saw from the University of Kairo from the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s respectively, where the women in the first picture did not wear a veil, but in the last picture all wore a veil. And what I'm actually going to use this to argue is that Islamism as a movement has created a kind of veil and niqab command, which is used as a symbol of what this movement represents. And then my question is: is it not reasonable for the state to go in and say that Islamism should not force girls or women to wear veils or niqab, at least niqab, or burka?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113515	I do not think that what we decide here has much effect on what is happening in Cairo, unfortunately. But I would like to say in reply: women in Denmark actually have some rights that the women in Cairo do not have. Women in Denmark have the freedom to say from today. It is illegal to force people to go to burka, so if women have been, they will get help too, because it is illegal. The Cairo women don't have that right. So I think it's a little wrong comparison. However, I would like to emphasise once again that I would have liked to have seen no women wear niqab or burka. It signals to me a vision that is very undemocratic, very undemocratic, but it is not for us politicians to interfere with it if a woman chooses to wear it herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113621	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113622	Well, the example from Cairo, in other words, simply helped to show that times are different, and that in Denmark, too, some form of Islamization has taken place, at least in some places that I think are quite, quite unpleasant, not to say disgusting. But the only thing is that sometimes states have to use some means to guarantee the freedom that exists between citizens. Kemal Atatürk did the same in Turkey, where he made a ban on religious symbols. But this isn't so drastic, it's just a masking ban, and I think it helps to secure the freedom of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113710	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113716	Thank you. Well, I'd like to fight the positions behind the scarf. I would like to combat the anti-democratic attitudes, the view of women, the view of people behind the scarf. But I do not think that is necessarily what we are going to do about banning the scarf. I am now saying the scarf, but it is Burka and Niqab that we are talking about, and these are two very different things. I'm aware of that. But that does not mean that we do not know what they are signalling. We want to challenge those attitudes, and we do so every single day. We challenge those attitudes. And that's the way we have to go, so there's no one else who chooses to put on burka or niqab. However, we do not actually want to be involved in legislation on how people should dress.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then that is the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113817	With the proposal here, the government is required to put forward a legislative proposal to introduce a ban on masking and covering clothing in public spaces. One should not be a great type of political commentator to see that the proposal here is basically about burkas and other religious cover, and that is why I would like to go straight to the point. Let me make it quite clear that we Socialists do not believe that burkas belong in Denmark. The Danish people's view pays tribute to equality between men and women. In our democracy, it is crucial that people can meet as equals, why no one should hide their face in meeting with other people. Burkaer is not compatible with Danish values. When you live and live in Denmark, we expect that you respect Danish values, and that is why we will always try to combat the outdated ideas and standards that lie behind women wearing burka.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113920	I think it's a message to everyone that there are problems with our phone system in here. So we can take it quite calmly in the Chamber, where we do not have to speak on the phone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121113931	I'll continue with the burkas. It is therefore also the social democratic vision to fight for equality and other Danish values and against the human vision behind burkas, not just when the burka is on. A dignified and equal treatment also concerns us Socialists when the burka is removed behind the closed doors of the home. We Social Democrats do not support burkas, but we do not support the proposal here either. When we adopt legislation here in the Folketing, it must have a certain scope and it does not have that proposal here, and at the same time we Social Democrats do not believe that a ban in the Folketing will change the prejudiced positions underlying burkas. Because you take the burka off, the attitudes don't go away. It is the attitudes that must be combated, and that requires other means. In these words, we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114022	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114028	Thank you. This is where you can see whether people are real or not, because, since it was the case that the Social Democrats thought that this proposal could not be implemented for legal reasons, since the Social Democrats believed in 2009 that such a ban would be contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the proposal was supported, but then recognised that it could not be implemented because it could not be implemented legally. It can then do so today, so there is nothing to prevent it from being implemented. At that time, in 2009, the political rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who, on behalf of the S-management team, jumped out as a supporter of a burka ban, is from an article in Berlingske, and I quote him: "We cannot ban what people are running around at home. There you can be naked or go in burka, I won't interfere with that. However, the Social Democratic Party is in favour of a ban that applies as soon as you get out of the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114136	I do not think I quite heard the question, but the discussion about whether or not we Social Democrats are involved will have to wait until later on Friday. At any rate, what we do not exist are burkas, but we do not believe that a proposal combats the biased positions behind the burka, and that is why we reject the proposal in this Chamber today. But we certainly do not support burkas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114204	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114207	What is it that makes Mrs Trine Bramssen disagree with Mr Bramsen? Henrik Sass Larsen, who has said on behalf of the Social Democratic Executive as political rapporteur in 2009: "But the Social Democratic Party is on a ban that applies as soon as you get out of the street." Social democracy is in favour of a ban. The Social Democrats can therefore vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, or the Danish People's Party can withdraw its motion for a resolution, and then the government can be allowed to table its own bill, and then we will just vote in favour of the government's proposal. So my question is really: what has happened since the Social Democratic Party has changed its position so significantly? Is it because it has suddenly been discovered that there is in fact a risk of a policy being implemented? I would just like to say that there is a risk in a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114253	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114255	I repeat that we Social Democrats find burkas totally incompatible with Danish values and standards, but we do not believe that simply because the burka is removed as a garment, we will also put an end to the prejudiced positions underlying the burka. And that is why we are rejecting the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114313	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114317	Yes, yes, well, of course we agree that it is about attitudes and everything else. But for us, it is also a question of whether or not it is a way of concealing one's identity. I believe that in an open, democratic society people should be able to see the face of people. As far as integration is concerned, I think it is quite crucial that people are not wrapped from top to toe. So it is not just a question of attitudes; it is also a question of who you can see and who you have with you. So that cover creates problems, and I certainly believe that it creates major integration problems. So the question is, is that not right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114408	Yes, but I should like to repeat what I said several times in my speech that we Socialists do not believe that burkas are compatible with Danish values. We believe that people should meet face to face not with a cover between people. But this ban just does not solve the fundamental problems that are all about the understanding of human beings, which is about attitudes that mean that man and woman are not equal. So we need to get to the root of the problems that are at the root of the burkas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114439	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114441	I agree that, of course, the democratic debate must also take an argumentative approach to this as much as one can. We are in complete agreement on this. But what I'm just talking about when it comes to this niqab ban or ban on masking, or whatever you call it, is that it's just that you have to be able to face the people you're facing, that you don't wrap yourself up, that you don't, so to speak, hide yourself. Because that's what this niqab is all about. I would like to say that any masking in which one hides one's face is a way of saying that one does not belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114529	Well, I completely agree that burkas create a distance between people and are totally unacceptable in a Danish democracy where you have to meet each other. But if the result of this proposal is now that the women who are forced to wear a burka will not get into our society at all in the future, then we have shot ourselves in the foot. So this has to be about combating the attitudes behind it, so that we have them broken down and that we have to explain to those people who believe that burkas are something that should cut women off from participation in public debate, public life, that it does not belong in Denmark. That must be where we have to go, and we hope that we can do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114610	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114617	Thank you very much, President. We Radicals are at the forefront of the fight for equality and against women's oppression, but we basically do not think that we, on the part of the state, should interfere in the dress of the people. That is good liberal policy. We do not support a clothing police force that this proposal will bring about. In my view, it would be quite unanswerable to implement such a proposal. A burka or a niqab may be a symbol of equality challenges, but it is not the substance itself that does the repression. No fundamental problems are solved with this proposal, and that is why it is in many ways just symbolic policy that we are seeing from the Danish People's Party today. One can then also discuss the extent of the use of burka. When a census was made a few years ago, I believe there were three women carrying burka in Denmark. As I said, we radically support the fight against women's oppression, but this ban does not solve the problem itself. In addition, I have some fears about something which is rather unclear in the resolution itself, namely what legitimate exceptions are, according to the authors of the motion for a resolution. It has not been very skilfully explained in the proposal itself, and my fear could be that this proposal will not solve any equality challenge, but instead will be a major nuisance to ordinary Danes who, for some legitimate reason or other, are masking themselves. I have masked myself on cold days with scarves and the like when I cycled through Aarhus. If this is a legitimate case, could you ask the Danish People's Party? Is it a legitimate coincidence to be dressed as a ghost for Halloween? Or is it really only in relation to religious headgear related to Islam that this is not a legitimate case? I think that is a relevant question to ask the Danish People's Party. This is something you might think when you read the motion for a resolution and see what the authors of the motion for a resolution have said in the past. You might add elephant hats at bank robberies and also make it illegal to use them. I don't know if that in itself will reduce the risk of bank robbery. In any case, it is somewhat unclear what exactly the proposers want to impose on the government. My point is that it is very unclear and that we are at risk of having a repeat of the knife law, which in many ways was more damaging than beneficial when it hit ordinary Danes who had a legitimate purpose in carrying a knife. We risk getting it the same way, but only with masking instead. So to sum up: we do not need a clothing police force in Denmark and therefore we Radicals cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karl H. Bornhøft.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121114921	Thank you. On behalf of our usual rapporteur, I should like to say the following: in the SF, we will not support the proposal to ban masking, which in practice and in the real debate is strictly about burka. In our view, it is very intrusive to interfere in people's dress, even though, from our point of view, wearing burka must be very inhibiting. As long as it is a free choice, we do not really think it is right to interfere, even if it has been stated that this is possible in relation to human rights. And the last assessment came from the Ministry of Justice as to whether it was on the edge of the Constitution, the answer was yes. And what we can then hear the Minister say now is that it then requires a concrete assessment. It's just fine, and maybe we can get it sometime. However, at the heart of this whole debate is, in our view, that in our democracy we have, in fact, some ideals of freedom that protect the individual to be able to make his own choices, including how to dress publicly. We agree that identifying a covered person may be a problem. After all, we already have a ban on masking which can be used when it comes to demonstrations, where there must be some regard for public order and security, and where there must be an opportunity to prosecute in the event of violence. So that part's covered in. In fact, we also have confidence that employers can set guidelines themselves when it comes to jobs, and when it comes to bus companies and passport controls, we actually have confidence that they can actually handle it. Should the opposite prove to be the case, we will of course be happy to hear about it and to take part in a debate on it. But let us be clear right away that we do not now believe that we are facing a major and indisputable problem. The question is also whether we are faced with such a wide-ranging problem that we should legislate against it, and we really do not think so. I don't think much has happened over the last six years in this context. A study from 2000 showed that there were 200 burka-clad women in Denmark, half of whom were even converted ethnic Danes, i.e. people who felt that they had a special need to prove that they had really changed their religious attitude. So we're not talking about a big problem. On the other hand, it is important for us to make it clear, as all the other rapporteurs in this Chamber have done, that we do not want to force anyone to wear burka. We think that Burka is out of the question, we do not think that it is sensible to bear, but we also think that although it is a symbol of repression which also causes discomfort, it is therefore far away from what could be acceptable to make legislation in this area. If a woman in Denmark chooses to put on a burka or a niqab, it will in fact already have major consequences for her. She will have great difficulty finding work, and she will probably also be socially isolated and perhaps even excluded by the surrounding society. What is basically important in this discussion is not the ban discussion, but that we should take the discussion between all of us so that we can ensure that we are opposed to biased religious attitudes and unacceptable cultural heritage. That is our task, that is what we must stick to, and that is actually what would be best in this context if we were to take an interest in a better social climate in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121115344	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. There are no brief comments inscribed. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121115354	Thank you. The Enhedslisten does not see any need to prohibit either burka, niqab or other forms of comprehensive clothing, as it says, in the public space. A ban of the kind proposed by the Danish People's Party in the motion for a resolution will cause a number of problems of demarcation. The authors themselves refer to this in the comments to the proposal, where they write that there may be certain special situations in which a comprehensive garment can be legitimised. The proposal will therefore lead to a lot of bureaucracy in which the authorities have to deal with boundaries and exceptions. This difficulty is certainly not worthwhile considering how rarely people move in the public space wearing what the proposers call complete clothing. In the debate on the use of burka and niqab by Muslim women, it has been mentioned that these garments are an expression of oppression of women. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party is proposing to punish these oppressed women with a fine if they defy the ban. The proposal will therefore hit those women who are allegedly already victims of repression with economic sanctions. This is a bad idea, and Enhedslisten can among other things. For that reason, do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121115515	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I still assume it's nothing serious they say in the speakers in the hallway. I still think it's about the phone system. But our system works in here, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121115550	And I assume that the President's announcement is not taken from time to time. That's good. After all, I am one of those who had the pleasure of also being rapporteur when we last discussed it back in the 2009-10 session. It is the case that I have just had to check my rapporteur's speech so that I should not get the same svada from Mr. Martin Henriksen like others. It is true that we mentioned human rights, but we also mentioned that this was not our main reason why we were opposed to the Danish People's Party's proposal. So that has already been clarified from the beginning. It is the case that in the Liberal Alliance we do not like what burka and niqab symbolise in many ways: oppression of women and women are worth less than men. We have no doubt that some women in Denmark are being forced to wear such garments. We also have no doubt that there are some women in Denmark who choose it for themselves, however difficult we have to understand it. For us, it is of course fundamental as liberals that people can dress as they please, both indoors and outdoors. It is also the case that we are, of course, opposed to forcing other people to dress in certain ways, including covering their faces. Therefore, we are extremely pleased that we have section 260 of the Criminal Code, which deals with illegal coercion with a penalty of up to 4 years in prison. Then it is said from the author's point of view that if you really are against burka and niqab, then you must also put action behind the words • I think it was Mrs Fatma Øktem who was told by the proposer. I would just like to say that if you want to ban burkas because some people are forced to go with them, it is, of course, tantamount to banning marriages because of forced marriages. It is about banning forcing other people to do something they do not want to do, and the joyful message today is that they have already done so, because, as I said before, it is stated in section 260 of the Criminal Code. Then, of course, you can imagine that this would be so big and comprehensive a problem, so that you could look at it with other eyes. It is the case that the Liberal Alliance would not agree to proposals for a ban on uniforms in public spaces either. After all, this was introduced against various political youth organisations in the 1930s because there were problems with uniformed political youth corps that walked around the streets and bothered others. So, of course, there may be situations quite exceptionally, but I don't think we're near them today. If you should finally go into it and see how to shape it, then you do not really answer it in the comments, that is how you intend to do it. I'm very excited to hear Mr. Simpson say... Martin Henriksen after me comes up here if we get an answer to what the Danish People's Party imagines to be done in concrete terms. I have been looking at section 134b of the Criminal Code, which deals with masking bans in demonstrations. Three things have been mentioned which are more specific: they are caps, they are masks, and they are paint. Should there then be a general ban on painting the face? One can imagine that kindergarten Margueriten and the crèche Dandelion and others will get into problems when painting face in public space. Or what exactly are we into? I think the proposer owes it to him to do so in concrete terms. I think we all owe it to say that we are against the oppression of women, we are against the attitude behind some of the things that the proposer probably thinks about in Burka and Niqab, but in many ways it is the mental burka more than the physical one that needs to be combated, and I am not sure that the mental burka is being combated by a ban. It may even end up with some women not even coming out, and then perhaps nobody in the real world has been helped anyway. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121120108	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has signed up to short remarks. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121120120	Thank you. I really would like to congratulate Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, for they meant the same thing at the time as they do now. That's excellent, you can relate to that. Then you can agree or not. I disagree, to put it mildly, that we are not going to do anything, but at the time when we thought that we could not do anything, and then we said that we would not do anything, and now that we know that we have the opportunity, we say that we suddenly change our point of view and then we think that it is not so serious a problem anyway, it is a bit mysterious. Let me say, in relation to this discussion and this attempt to ridicule this proposal, that it is fair enough, it is also part of the political debate. Now you've got this in France. I may of course be wrong, but I am quite sure that the French police are not pursuing kindergarten children who have painted themselves in the face. If they do, then I think it should be brought to the attention of the public so that you can deal with it, but I am quite sure that they do not. I am also quite sure that the French police will not stop cyclists who wear a scarf because they freeze a little around their necks and then give them a fine. I may be wrong, but I am quite sure that this is not the kind of thing the French police are doing. And if that is what the French police were to do, then this ban would probably not have been approved by the European Court of Human Rights. That is the news of today's debate, for earlier, among other things. In 2009, when we had the discussion, there were a lot of parties in this Parliament who said that they would ban burka and niqab, because they represent a woman's view, but not just a woman's view, because this is not just about the word and now you shouldn't understand it just as if it's nothing about women's oppression, it's also about a certain view of people, a vision that you have to divide things up into clean and unclean things, that there's the right thing, and then there's the wrong thing to divide it up in a very bombastic way, a very ideological way, and that you want to separate yourself from the society that you should basically be part of. That's what this is all about. And then it's all about how we feel in the Danish People's Party that we want a society where we can face each other, that when we walk past some people on the street, we can see who we are walking by when we talk to some people, then we can see who we are talking to. There were other parties that agreed on this in 2009. I think there are many who remember the public debate in 2009 when the Social Democrats said that they supported a burka ban, where the Conservatives said that they supported a burka ban. They said that they really wanted to implement it, but the only reason they did not want it was because it was against the Constitution and because it was against the European Convention on Human Rights. Since then, there has been a judgment by the European Court of Human Rights, which has approved the ban in France. Then that argument fell away. Today, a new legal assessment has been made by the Ministry of Justice, which says that it is not contrary to the Constitution. Then that argument fell away. So now we are faced with an unpleasant situation where we have to show, in fact, whether we want to implement what is said in public, whether we want to implement what has been said to the Danes, that we want to implement it. You might get into the situation as a politician, that you actually get the chance to implement what you say. For some, of course, this may be a pleasant situation, but you should actually be happy about it. We are in this situation today, and we are in the situation where another country has implemented it, and we know that we have the Minister for Justice's word that it is within the framework of the Constitution, we have the European Court of Human Rights' word that it is within the conventions, and that is why it is just a question of the honourable Members putting action behind the words. It may well be that this is not happening here and now I can sense that, because it is also a bit surprising that you can actually do it legally, but I hope that more and more people will realise that in time we actually now have the opportunity to send a very, very clear signal from the Folketing to the fundamentalists, the Islamists that we have in Denmark, who want a fundamentally different society, a society that is based on a completely different view of women and a completely different view of people, and to them we can say with the legislation that we do not want that, and if they want to live in that way, they can do it elsewhere than in Denmark. It is a strong and positive signal to send from the Danish Parliament. Similarly, it is a very, very unfortunate signal to send out that you are now saying if that is what ends up standing by, but so let's see, as time goes by, that we can actually implement this, but we do not want to put action behind words. Then you send the signal to those environments that politicians are just talking about fighting them, but when it comes down to it, you don't want anything. So I hope you'll think about it a little bit. This will probably not happen now and probably not in connection with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. It may well be a little longer, but I hope Members will think about the fact that we now have the opportunity to implement something that the Social Democrats have said they would like to implement, as Conservatives have said, that they would like to implement, and to nap me if you went in and found old Left quotes, if they have not also said that this was something that they saw as positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121120647	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. If no one objects and it doesn't look like it's adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121120704	We were just getting started on this point a little earlier, but now we take it. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121120722	Thank you. I shall begin my speech, as I did before; now it is the right resolution, and that is of course an advantage to the debate. I would like to repeat what I started to say before, namely that I think there is every reason to take a very, very strong stand against the views expressed by individuals associated with the mosque at Grimhøjvej in the media; there should be no doubt whatsoever about that. What kind of resolution are we dealing with here? So, the intention of the Danish People's Party is that we should seek the mosque at Grimhøjvej and the association behind it dissolved by judgment on the basis of a preliminary ban announced by the Minister of Justice or another authority authorised by the Minister of Justice. I think there may be good reason to describe just what rules we are dealing with, according to our constitution and the associated opportunity to dissolve an association. We need to get hold of the rules contained in Article 78 of the Constitution. First of all, the provision means that citizens can form associations without first having to ask for permission and permission. So in the Danish constitution there is a fundamental ban on the censorship of associations. In principle, however, the provisions provide for the possibility of the dissolution of an association which has already been formed by law. A dissolution presupposes that the association has an illegal purpose. This means, for example, that the association... must have as its purpose the implementation or involvement in criminal offences. In the actual assessment of what may be said to be the object of the association, an assessment must be made of the nature of the association's activities. What matters here will be what the association really stands for. That is, for example, the case. not sufficient merely to assess the purpose formally pursued by the association under its statutes. On the other hand, it is generally accepted that the fact that an association once or a few times infringes the law cannot in itself justify the fact that the object of the association is to be regarded as unlawful. The same applies to the fact that individual members of the association have committed offences. Thus, the dissolution of an association by judgment, on the grounds that the association has an illegal purpose, could generally be considered if the association or its members, as a general part of the association's activities, engage in criminal activities. The provisions of the Basic Law are set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. 2 a special rule that associations acting by or seeking to achieve their objectives by violence, incitement of violence or similar criminal influences against different thinkers become, as the provision states, to dissolve by judgment. This means, among other things, that, in relation to such associations, the government is, at least as a starting point, obliged to raise a resolution case. It must be considered unsolved whether this duty is unconditional or whether the basic law leaves room for some assessment of whether, in a broader perspective, it would now also be appropriate to break up rather than intervene by other means. An association cannot be dissolved by a government measure. However, an association may be provisionally prohibited, but proceedings must then be brought against it immediately for its dissolution. So it is not the case that it is left to the government's free political discretion to impose a provisional ban on an association. A Minister of Justice, even though the Minister of Justice is myself, can therefore, under the Constitution, impose a provisional ban on an association only if the legal conditions for such an association are met. This means, among other things, that there must be a proper basis for proof before a provisional ban can be imposed. A government that has to comply with the Constitution and it will be my recommendation that we do so cannot simply risk out and ban without having such a basis. And it is the assessment in the Ministry of Justice that it is not there at present in relation to the Grimhøjmoskeen. Therefore, there is no reason right now to ask the Attorney General to assess whether an investigation should be carried out into the issues involved in the dissolution of a possible association behind the mosque. Having said all this, it might also be very good to stress that one should be careful not to have too much expectations of what one might actually achieve if one were to break up a possible association behind the mosque at Grimhøjvej. For the effect of such a dissolution would be that the association would legally cease to exist, that the assets of the association could be confiscated and that there would be the possibility of punishing persons who take part in the continuation of the association's activities after its dissolution. But the people who are behind statements which are justified in rejecting them and the attitudes that may prevail in parts of the environment will, of course, continue to be there. And you cannot ban and not dissolve either people or attitudes, even if you sometimes want to. That is why it is also important for me to say that we are not dealing with a miracle cure. The people you want to stop will certainly continue to have the same views. That is why it will be my clear call to the Danish Parliament not to vote in favour of the resolution here, but instead to use our forces, our time and our energy to combat radicalisation and extremism, which is dangerous for Denmark and for our democracy, and which, moreover, is a priority for me as Minister of Justice. Therefore, I would just like to dwell a little bit on the action plan we have put forward, on radicalisation and on the need to counter the extremism that we know exists in our society. Because what we want is to be more able to intervene, for example, if there are people who choose what is incomprehensible to me to go to Syria, for example, to fight on the same side as the Islamic State. What is our intention is to remove the passport from those who might wish to leave; that it should be possible to issue an exit ban; and that, in the case of resident foreigners, it should be possible to withdraw the residence permit or the right of residence from those concerned. In addition, we are faced with negotiations with a great many of the Danish Parliament's parties, all with the exception of Enhedslisten, under the auspices of the gym to discuss a number of concrete initiatives of a more preventive nature and to ensure that the Danish authorities are all dressed up for the task. I would also like to say in general terms that when we talk about radicalisation and extremism in our society, I actually regard this as primarily a task for PET, in other words our intelligence service. Because these are very, very serious challenges and problems for both our democracy and potentially also our legal certainty. And I have a very clear expectation that even when we talk about specific places in Denmark there is of course an unusually enhanced eye on the part of the authorities in relation to, for example, Islamist radical environments in Denmark, which unfortunately exist. In conclusion, I just want to say that I think it is important that we constantly uncover whether we are also able to prosecute people who go out and participate, and we are also looking at that right now. Perhaps I should say that there is a cooperation on both the PET and the Østjyllands Police. I think that there is a great deal of reason to distance ourselves from some of the statements we have heard from individuals about the environment, and I think we should do what we can to combat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121121532	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one has signed up for short remarks. That's the way it is sometimes. Then it is the rapporteur from the Left and that is Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121121558	Thank you very much. Let me start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this very important debate about the Grimmøjmoskeen in Aarhus. The Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution is about the Danish Parliament requiring the government to seek the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus and the association that is behind it dissolved by judgment on the basis of a provisional ban notified by the Minister of Justice or any other authority empowered to do so by the Minister of Justice in accordance with § 78. I've been sitting across from these people. I've listened to their fanaticism. I have heard their disapproval of our democracy. I've seen it in their eyes, and they do it without blinking. They care for themselves and do not want the Danish community, use democracy against us and use their freedom to fight for freedom. We know that they do not want our democracy. We know they don't want our freedom. But we will. When we are free, we are free to express our differences and our opinions, and then we are free to disagree and discuss. It requires tolerance for us to be able to tolerate that diversity. Even when it is so far from our reality and from our values. That is the core of our democracy, I think. And as soon as we bend the Constitution to close a deep, deeply damaging union, we have given up our democracy. As we can understand from the answer given by the Minister for Justice, this cannot be done on the basis of this. The Ministry considers that the conditions laid down in Article 78 of the Constitution have not been met, and we must therefore reject the motion for a resolution. It is also very important to have in mind what will actually be achieved by dissolving the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus. The people who are today members of the Grimhøjmosque will still be here and they will still have the same views as they do today. They will express them, even if the union is dissolved, they just want to gather elsewhere. That is why we clearly believe that there is a clear need for the police and the PET and other authorities to keep a close eye on the people who come around the mosque. And if they commit illegal acts, they must, of course, be prosecuted immediately. So we have to go after the people and attitudes and not the buildings. We must also reject their views. We must again and again publicly challenge them and discuss the statements, activities and attitudes expressed by the Grimhøjmoskeen. The fact that such attitudes are displayed and contradicted has a real effect and is a good weapon against such associations and those views. We would also encourage the government to give the municipalities more tools so that they can stress and challenge such groups. We cannot understand that money should be given to associations of this kind, and that is why the Left wants the municipalities, for example. must be able to refuse to rent premises or be able to refuse to support associations if it is considered that the aid or rental will promote extremism that is incompatible with the fundamental Danish values of democracy, equality, etc. We will encourage the government to look into the possibilities for this, and we suggest that it takes place in dialogue with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the National Association of Municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we agree with and share the Danish People's Party's concern about the Grimhøjmoskeen. And once again I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they have done the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122036	I would actually like to start by quoting section 67 of the Constitution, which states: "Citizens have the right to unite in society to worship God in the way that agrees with their beliefs, but that nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. I would say that what is going on in the Grimhøjmoskeen and some of the statements that have come from out there are indeed contrary to public order, among other things. with regard to the call for the murder of Jews. And if you want to defend freedom, there must be a strong state that intervenes against the kind of movement that will undermine democracy and simply kill it to its full extent. I am a freedom-loving person, but I do not understand that in the various parties in the Folketing one is so naive in relation to these movements, because they have only one purpose, and that is to undermine the Denmark that I love.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122145	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122147	And it is the same Denmark that I love very much, and that is why I would also like to say that we are neither naive nor stupid nor anything else when we say that we know what they stand for. We breathe them in the neck. We know what they're fighting for. It is a knowledge that we have, and that is why, when there are such statements and, as far as I know, the imam in question is also subject to police charges. I just want to emphasise that the moment we choose to tear down the building does not change attitudes. We can be worried about what happens next in relation to those positions, because they are not being removed. I'd rather challenge them openly, challenge them time and time again. Every time there is an announcement from them, I will ask about it and challenge their comments and constantly come up with our arguments, which I think are much stronger also to preserve the Denmark we all love.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122252	Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122254	Well, it's interesting enough that the government now wants to punish people who go to Syria. I don't know how the Left feels about it by including their passports. We would like to do so, but since it turns out that the reason why people are going down and fighting in Syria is that there is a hatchery called the Grimmøjmoskeen, where these people have been brainwashed, I think it would certainly be a good idea to have this operation dissolved rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122335	I mean, maybe I've misunderstood something, but when there's not enough evidence to make such a breakdown when there's not enough evidence, and when the Justice Department rejects it, we don't have the legal part to do so. But it is true that we hold individuals accountable; the individual who goes out, the individual who speaks. That is what we can do now, and that is what we want to do. Otherwise we can be concerned about what consequences it will have, plus that we may also go in and mess with something that is in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122414	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122423	The proposal here requires the government to dissolve the Grimmøjmosque in Aarhus and the association behind it by judgment. And I shall start by telling you that we Socialists cannot support this proposal. We therefore share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution about young people who are drawn by extremist environments. This is in no way compatible with Danish democratic values, and that is why we must do everything we can to combat the attitudes underlying the view of society and human beings that exists in the extremist movements. We also share the concern that there is much evidence that religious religions in both Aarhus and elsewhere in the country have been used as recruitment bases in relation to participation in holy wars in Syria and Iraq, for example. However, the distasteful attitudes underlying extremist movements do not live in bricks, they live in people, and it is these attitudes that must be combated. Not even the biggest bulldozer in the world can change the entrenched and undemocratic attitudes. I admit to the proposers that it would be nice if there were such a snapshot solution, but unfortunately there is not. If we want to put an end to extremist attitudes, we need hard work. That is why, from day one, the government has focused on combating extremist environments and radicalisation. Most recently, we have had our toolbox for inspection and on that basis added the new tools. We know that prevention is one of the most effective instruments. If we get to the young people who are entering the bad acquaintances early on, it is easier to get them on the right track. Those who are engulfed by the undemocratic environments also have tools to deal with. It's not easy, but the tough move is necessary. In this connection, may I not point out that there has been very good experience from the police with regard to cooperation with the environment around the Grimhøjmosque. Religious communities must and can help solve the problems of radicalised young people, and I would like them to go even further in their efforts to distance themselves from it and remedy the problems. In Aarhus, the collaboration with the Grimhøjmoskeen has brought good results. The number of young people who are heading towards holy war has slowed down, and the hope must therefore be that we have copied the Aarhus effort to include other parts of the country. I should also like to point out, like previous speakers, that there are also major constitutional disputes in the proposal that have been tabled here in the Danish Parliament today. I would like to reiterate that we Social Democrats want to combat all forms of extremist tendencies in our society. We reject those Islamists who want to fight our democratic values. But to believe that the problem has been solved by tearing down a mosque, we do not believe in, and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122729	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122733	Thank you. It is perhaps also too much to demand that the Ministry of Justice and the Socialists will approve that two DF proposals in one day are within the framework of the Constitution. However, it goes in the right direction, it has to be said. In relation to this, I would like to ask something that Mrs Trine Bramsen said, and I do not know whether I misunderstood it: did Mrs Trine Bramsen highlight the cooperation of the authorities with the Grimhøjmosque as an example? I'll get that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122803	We know that it is absolutely crucial that the religious environments come into play when it comes to stopping, for example, the departure to holy war that we have seen, and it is absolutely crucial to get hold of opinion-formers and key players in the religious environments. It is also the experience of Aarhus that has enabled the police to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122832	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122834	It sounds almost as if Mrs Trine Bramsen actually thinks that the authorities' cooperation with the Grimhøjmosque is an example and that it should be spread out to the rest of the country. I think it's an alternative report, but an honest report. I would at least like to sign for the honest part of it, but ask: does Mrs Trine Bramsen really believe that it is an increased cooperation with imams and mosques that will help solve problems of radicalisation in Denmark? Does Mrs Trine Bramsen really think that, when it comes to increased cooperation with a mosque, whose imam has called for the killing of Jews, these are the kind of people with which we must work? Keep in mind that the chairman of the mosque and the association behind it has backed the imam, that their spokesperson has spoken something that comes very, very close to reminding of support for the Islamic State. We should not work with such things, because when we work with them, we build them up and we have to tear them down.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122935	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121122937	Now I think, sir. Martin Henriksen takes my words somewhat further than they can bear. I want to stand by the need to cooperate with religious communities, as we do across the country, and it has been particularly successful in Aarhus. This is certainly not the same as cooperating with imams who make completely insane statements. Of course we should not, and we must distance ourselves from them. However, imams with crazy statements do not represent the whole environment, and it is therefore essential that we have the religious environments in play in order to put an end to young people becoming part of the extremist environment and to ensure that they have a healthy religion and are not attracted by the extremes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123023	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123027	I understand that the people of the Grimhøjmosque in relation to Social Democracy will serve to improve integration efforts in the future. I think that's marvellous. We want the union dissolved, and the Social Democratic Party then says that these people certainly serve for better integration. Is it going to be in the government's integration program or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123057	That has not been said here from the rapporteur's chair, nor is it the position of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123102	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123104	In 2007 or 2008, there was a mosque that went undercover in these mosques and also in some that were called mainstream mosques, i.e. ordinary mosques, where there was simply a call for the worst things, among other things. the overthrow of British democracy, the cutting-off of hands, burka commands and many other things. I am absolutely certain that this kind of hatchery in extremism also takes place from Danish mosques. By the way, I think PET knows, and I do not understand why it is really so foreign that they say that we have to get rid of this hatchery. I don't mean to blow up the building. I'm just saying, you have to break up the union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123147	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123149	Let me just make this clear, just so that the last of us can get it with us: we Social Democrats despise the positions that are contrary to Danish democracy. There should be no doubt about that. But the undemocratic extremist attitudes do not live in bricks, they live in people, and therefore these are the positions we need to get hold of. It has to be said that cooperation with the religious environments is one of the things that the police themselves point out has been crucial in stopping, for example, recruitment to the holy warriors who leave and fight in Syria, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the next one in the series of speeches, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123236	Thank you for the floor. I'll be relatively brief. We cannot simply shut down associations from the political point of view. That is quite clear in the Constitution. The Minister of Justice may impose a provisional ban, but this obviously requires a thorough evidence-based basis, which will subsequently have to be tested in the Danish courts. And we don't think we have that in relation to the Grimhøjmosque. It would be contrary to the Constitution to do what the Danish People's Party deep down wants. That is why we cannot support the proposals of the Danish People's Party. We Radicals, of course, reject all statements that call for hatred and violence, including those that have come from people associated with the Grimhøjmosque. However, one might also ask whether the positions are in the bricks on the Grimhøjmoskeen. I do not think so, and that is why it is perhaps more of a symbolic policy on the part of the Danish People's Party that we are discussing here today. We cannot fight radicalisation with an association ban. There must be other means for this, funds that we are already using, and which I think the Minister of Justice has just explained very well. That is why we Radicals do not support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Karl H. Bornhøft from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123418	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to point out that we cannot support the motion for a resolution in the SF, as we believe it to be unconstitutional. This is because the proposal calls for action against freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and private property. However, we would like to express our deepest disapproval when calling for violence and other harmful activities in relation to our democracy. We also agree that some of the people who travel in the Grimhøjmosque and who support ISIS have harmful and anti-democratic attitudes, and it is extremely unpleasant that they can to some extent influence young people who then go to Syria; we have seen some of that traffic. Freedom of assembly and religion is important to remember for all of us, whether or not the rest of us agree with them. We must also recognise that it can be difficult and that we can be powerfully challenged by our sense of democracy by rabid groupings. The comfort in this context is, of course, that we have a lot of legislation that we can implement when it comes to libel, incitement to hatred, terror and procrastination. Of course, we support the fact that we use it when we can, just as we support the fact that associations that work through violence can be dissolved. Extremism must in any case be combated. On the other hand, we are somewhat uncertain as to what the dissolution of the mosque would actually entail. That would hardly break up radical positions, and it is of course them that it is interesting to fight. The radical positions do not, as several people have pointed out, sit in the bricks...
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123616	For the sake of the rapporteur, I would like to ask for a little more calm in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123617	Thank you. What is important in this matter is that we dare to fight against rabid forces, discuss with them, make them understand the reality that is part of ours in this country. So that's the way to fight these environments. Nor do we want to hide the fact that, although we have sometimes expressed our concerns about PET, we are fully aware that in this context PET tends to keep a sharp eye on those who are causing problems, and that is also part of the defence that this society can offer, and that is precisely the reason why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123712	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no brief comments, so the next one is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123721	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes that the government, in accordance with the provisions of section 78 of the Constitution, take steps to ban the Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus and the association behind the mosque. It is very rare that we in Denmark ban associations. We have a long tradition of extensive freedom of association in which both Nazis and bikers can legally form associations, but where these people are, of course, punished if they commit illegal acts. If you ban Nazis, bikers or extremist Islamists from forming legitimate associations, you will first and foremost get them to organize themselves in secret and may thus gain an increased attractiveness: they become interesting to new groups and gain a martyrdom in the eyes of someone. There is a tradition that the bar for the dissolution of an association under Article 78 of the Constitution is placed very high. The fact that members of or spokesmen of an association commit unlawful acts is therefore not enough for Article 78 of the Constitution to be applied. In a recent reply to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Minister for Justice wrote the following, and I quote: 'The resolution of an association by judgment, on the grounds that the association has an illegal purpose, for example. Therefore, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the exercise or the encouragement of violence could in general be considered only if the association or its members, as a general part of the association's activities, carry out the abovementioned criminal activities. The Enhedslisten agrees that this is and should be the state of law, and I would like to remind you that the legislation offers ample opportunities to punish people who commit violence or terrorism or call for it. In addition, in the specific case, in a recent letter to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, the Østjyllands Politik stated that the police and the municipality maintain a dialogue with young people who are at risk of becoming Syrians. In the opinion of the police, closing the mosque would make this important work more difficult, and in this matter we believe that there is reason to listen to the police. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121123937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no entry for short remarks. Then it's the next one in the series of speeches, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121124003	Thank you. I believe that there is a great deal of agreement about rejecting the terrible statements made by several from the Grimhøjmosque, and there has also been some concern about the extent to which the Grimhøjmosque is, to say the least, an account for future Syrians and, hence, for people who are taking part on the wrong side in the fight in Syria and Iraq, and this is a matter which is very dear to us in the Liberal Alliance. That is why we are not opposed to closing the mosque if possible. But what does it mean to be able to close the mosque if possible? In our best opinion, it is not known that a majority in the Folketing decides on this. In our best opinion, it is doing what has been done in the past in relation to Hizb ut-Tahrir, namely that the Minister for Justice asks the Attorney General to investigate whether this is possible. I know that the Danish People's Party has tried to get the Minister of Justice to do so in the past and without success I have read that in the comments. But it might well be that I do not know if it could after listening to the debate, but it could agree in the committee in a report to instruct the Minister of Justice to ask the Attorney General for something like that. That seems to us to be the good way forward from this point of view. The alternative is just throwing yourself into it. And if you just throw yourself into it, there's a risk. There is, of course, the risk that the courts will come to the conclusion that the Grimhøjmoskeen cannot be closed. And who benefits from it? Do the young people who are seduced by the lunatics in the Grimhøjmosque have anything to do with it? No, they have nothing good to gain from the fact that the Grimhøjmosque gets a blue stamp from the Danish state. Does the surrounding community have any good in saying: Yes, it's okay? I don't think we have anything good to do with that. Of course, it may be that there are associations which can be closed in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution that you can close associations that work by violence, but I think it is a dangerous way to embark on, unless we have the Danish Attorney General's thorough assessment that there is realism in it. I can't quite see through that either, but you might ask the Minister for Justice what consequences it will actually have on the possibilities of the police and others if we just try to ban it without it becoming a ban. Will there be any investigative implications for the future? At any rate, I would like to have an assessment of this. Our starting point is that we have no sympathy at all for the Grimhøjmoskeen, and therefore there are no buts, but there is action. There is the act that the Committee on Legal Affairs should ask the Minister for Justice to have an investigation carried out by a national prosecutor to see whether the association behind the Grimmøjmosque is in all likelihood covered by the Constitution's paragraph on associations that work through violence. So that is the response of the Liberal Alliance in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121124429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121124449	Thank you. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus and the association behind it must be dissolved by judgment, according to the constitution. The Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus has been the subject of much public debate for several years. Among the many unfortunate indications in public and trends and strong statements, we have heard that the spokesperson, Fadi Abdallah, has supported the terrorist organisation Islamic State. The spokesperson will also closely follow the Koran when it talks about stoning, whipping and multi-wifery in the Islamic state that he dreams of. In July 2014, Imam Abu Bilal Ismail spoke from the Grimhøjmoskeen at a Friday prayer in Berlin, where he called for the killing of Jews. Among other things, he said:: Count them and kill them all. Spare none of them. Make them suffer horribly. Subsequently, the imam was supported by the chairman of the association of the Grimhøjmoskeen, as on TV 2 News on July 23 at 11:00. 19 said that Ismail has done nothing other than all other imams. They mean the same thing all over the world. There we have the feeling in the Danish People's Party that the mere fact that one goes out and calls for killing is a call for violence; there can certainly be no doubt about that. The mere fact that this request is supported by the President of the Council means that it is a coordinated effort, and this is not an isolated case. We are talking about something that we have talked about, something that we mean deep inside. So I think that, whether you call these Jews Zionist or call them something else, it is a perfectly clear call to commit violence. I think that this should be rejected, and I think that we should also react to that in the Folketing and also in the government and in the courts. The impression remains that the union stands for an extreme version of Islam. We know that the police intelligence service believes that over 100 inhabiting Muslims have travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight on the side of the Islamists. We know that the East Jutland Police have said that 22 of the young Muslims who have signed up under the banners for so-called holy war with the Islamic State in the Middle East have had their start in the Aarhus Mosque. Frankly, I think you should take stock of that. We think, and we believe, that an example must be set. The Danish People's Party believes that there are many examples of e.g.: statements by the mosque, which have influenced and urged young people to go into so-called holy war and called for violence, called for killing, and it is thus very clearly described in the constitution that if an association does so, there is, in fact, a very, very clear possibility of banning the association in question. The Grimhøjmoskeen and the association behind blue stamps, thus supporting acts that are punishable. In the Danish People's Party we have previously proposed the dissolution of an Islamist organisation, Hizb ut-Tahrir, which is already banned in a number of other countries, but for now without success, unfortunately. Now we think it must be the end of being naive and good-hearted. With the emergence of the terrorist organisation Islamic State, which is a nasty and criminal enterprise, and which only deserves all the resistance that the democratic Western world can provide, we believe that the hotspots of the terrorist organisation Islamic State should not, of course, be protected. We also believe that this is an aggravating circumstance when the mosque gives support to the Islamic State, which the Danish state and Danish soldiers are fighting against. An example should be given of where the limit of ordinary decency is set. That is why we hope that at some point we can find a majority in order to do exactly that. Then several people have said in the debate that we must argue with and against the extreme forces. It is, of course, all right to argue and discuss; it is an important thing to do in a democracy. But if you only do that and don't really do so much else, we are afraid in the Danish People's Party that this is a fight that we will lose. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution and we hope, as I said, that at some point there will be support to proceed with the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121124924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121124950	The debate is open. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, on behalf of the Left, is the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125006	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution here, B 24, should be able to convince even the most so-called sceptical EU politicians that it is not everything that comes in the eyes of the goose from Brussels that is terrible, because with the adoption of B 24, Denmark can look forward to an annual discount on our quota of 1 billion. kr. This should be something on which all parties could agree in this Chamber. It can be said that although the opposition at that time originally called such an EU rebate funny money, that is not amusing cash, but highly questionable cash, the current government, with the finance minister in the lead, chose to pursue the VK government's ambition for a correction to Denmark in the EU budget. It is gratifying that we have succeeded in getting started so that we can strengthen public finances in Denmark. The Left originally put forward the proposal for a correction. We supported the government during the negotiations, we supported the government's negotiating proposals in the European Committee and that is why, of course, we also support the adoption of B 24 here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125124	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Morten Bødskov, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125136	I shall try to make the same brief. It is true, as has been said, that this motion for a resolution has its reasons for the fact that the legal basis for financing the EU budget requires ratification in all the Member States of the European Union. That is why we must also go through parliamentary treatment of it. At the same time, of course, we have had the proposal for discussion in the European Committee of the Danish Parliament, where, on the basis of the mandate that was given, the government has, of course, chosen to join the multiannual financial framework for the European Union, which extends from 2014 to 2020. Of course, the Socialists can also support this in the Chamber, as we did in the Committee on European Affairs. Last but not least, there must of course be congratulations to the current government that it actually managed to secure a rebate of just over 1 billion. kr. a year. It is true, as the previous rapporteur said, that it was, it can be said, a pious but unfunded wish under the previous government. But then it was good that the SR government, and not least the Prime Minister, had the billions fought home. So, of course, the Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125253	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Martin Henriksen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125303	Thank you. This case was in the Committee on European Affairs two years ago. On 2 November 2012, the Minister for Finance asked for a mandate in the European Committee. Among other things, it acted. on the fact that the Minister of Finance would fight for a discount to Denmark, 1 billion. kr. less in the quota, and at the same time the Minister of Finance would fight for the budget to be reduced, that is, that the EU should be, as it were, in the same way as they asked all the Member States to be, that is to say, reluctant. It all sounds really good, of course. The only problem is that this will never happen when it comes to the European Union. The Kutymen is that the Finance Minister says restraint when it comes to the Commission's proposal, and the European Parliament wants more money, and in the Danish People's Party we are still waiting to see that the EU budget is getting smaller. The agenda of the European Parliament's Committee on Friday, 2 November 2012 illustrates quite well what we mean. On the same day, the Minister for Finance presented a case in which the 2012 budget was increased by an increase in expenditure for Denmark of 1.3 billion. kr. in relation to the budget. So that, along with other reasons, is why we are saying no today, just as we said no to the mandate in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125413	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Next in line, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125420	Thank you for the floor. I am actually standing here on behalf of the new radical EU rapporteur, Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, who is unfortunately prevented from being here today. He is a foreign official, but I have to report on behalf of him that European cooperation is about people. That is why, together in Europe, we must ensure growth and employment, take the lead in the fight for a better climate and environment and ensure peace in Europe. Having a job means everything to us as people. It allows you to support yourself and your family; it gives you faith in yourself and thus a belief in the future. This is true whether you are a Dane, a Portuguese or a Pole, a woman or a man, young or old. For Danish jobs and Danish business, it is crucial that Europe is competitive, and that is why we are pleased that with Europe's new budget there is a significant increase in funding for research and development to promote growth and employment. That is money for example. development of transport networks, energy networks and digital networks. It is about jobs, including in Denmark. Our climate and environment mean everything to us as human beings. We need to be able to look ourselves and our children in the eye when we ride down to kindergarten and go for a walk in the woods or bathe in the sea, and to say that we actually made a difference in Europe. The serious climate and energy challenges can only be solved across borders in Europe. The common climate targets for European countries are a milestone in this respect. The agreement on the EU budget also contains a general objective of at least 20%. EU spending over the period must go towards achieving the objectives of climate action. We must keep an eye on this from the Danish side. Peace and security in Europe means everything to us as people. For the Radical Left, the European Union is also the project of peace. It is through cooperation, dialogue and mutual respect for the diversity of the Member States that we ensure peace in Europe. The EU budget is basically about ensuring this continued cooperation. The Government has endorsed the overall agreement that we are discussing today on the EU's multiannual framework 2014-2020 on behalf of Denmark, following a mandate from the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. We of course support this on the part of the Radical Left, and we also appreciate the fact that the negotiations have succeeded in obtaining a 1 billion rebate for Denmark. kr. a year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Karl H. Bornhøft for SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125645	Thank you. I would point out that I am speaking here on behalf of the SF's EU rapporteur, Holger K. Nielsen, who unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today. The SF supports the proposal for the new EU own resources system. With a total budget of 7 500 billion. kr. the EU's budgetary struggles should, of course, be about what the EU should live on in the future and how we can create growth in the sluggish European economy with necessary investment in innovation, research and energy. However, the EU budget shows a clear need to overcome the absurd discrimination which has caused some of the EU's most prosperous economies to put themselves heavily on unfair discounts. SF therefore shared the enthusiasm when last year the Prime Minister succeeded in securing corrections to the budget so that Denmark no longer has to pay other rich countries' discounts. It was an agreement that resulted in a Danish billion savings on payments to the EU over the next seven years. That is why the SF supports the proposal, which allows the government to accede to the agreement on the EU budget. We do so with a little joy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125810	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121125829	Thank you. What we are going to be discussing here today and voting on in the near future is, of course, the quota for the European Union, simply. The Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to the EU. Looking at the foundations of the European Union, the Treaty of Lisbon, we see that there is no other constitution in the world where the rights of capital have been so much written in and where it has been ensured that these rights are overall all that could benefit the population and our planet in terms of increasing employment, better real wages, better welfare, safeguarding professional and social rights, a climate and environmental policy and a solidarity in trade policy towards poor countries. Even the American Constitution, which is, after all, the legal framework for the most capitalist country in the world, is in its spirit more democratic than the Treaty of Lisbon. The American Constitution has at least maintained the right of the people to rebel, but it will never be inscribed in the Treaty of Lisbon, as it will undoubtedly be accused of constituting a technical barrier to trade. This is also reflected in the policy pursued, which has in no way helped to help the people of Europe out of the crisis. On the contrary. The austerity policy has led to millions of more unemployed people, to cuts in welfare and to trade union rights, not least in the countries of southern Europe, which were experiencing enough difficulties in the past. Despite much talk about combating unemployment and poverty, according to the EU's own estimates, there are well over 20 million unemployed and more than 100 million EU citizens threatened by poverty. In addition, the development of the European Union from the start and so far has been about systematically undermining the democracy that the peoples of Europe fought through the 1900s. Step by step, one policy area after another has been placed under EU competence, with the result that there are no major policy areas in which the European Union cannot interfere in the sacred name of the so-called free market economy. The result is that we can choose a new government at home in dissatisfaction with the policy pursued. It just has no consequences, because the legislation of the European Union is prepared and presented by bureaucrats and adopted by majority voting by a Council of Ministers, which we have no influence on the composition of. At the same time, the Treaty has ensured that it is virtually impossible to roll back these abuses because it will require unanimity. In order to ensure the dominance of market thinking in all areas, a political court, the European Court of Justice, has been set up which, once again, completely outside popular control, makes new legislation in the areas that are not explicitly mentioned in the Treaty. The result of this has, for example, been the result. It was an attack on professional and social rights through a series of judgments which have undermined the right to strike. It goes without saying that there is a great deal to be done before the Enhedslisten could even dream of voting in favour of the quota for that association. It would require a much smaller budget for us to abolish agricultural aid schemes, for us to cut back on other aid schemes and for there to be huge savings in the huge bureaucracy that prevails in the European Union. After all, the present budget is nowhere near meeting those requirements. We recognise that the government, as promised, has obtained a discount of 1 billion for Denmark. kr., but we're not impressed. Firstly, this simply means that we will be back at the level we were before the VK government started to climb with the money for the European Union. Secondly, the result is still that Denmark pays approx. Six billion more for the European Union than we receive in support. A large part of this amount does not go to the poor, but to finance extremely lucrative discounts for some of the rich countries of the European Union, not least for Britain. This has nothing to do with solidarity. This has to do with madness, as Professor of Political Science at the University of Copenhagen Peter Nedergaard said in 2011. All in all, it is a purely deficit business for Denmark, which means that we are even bound by a liberal economic policy, which takes the form of less well-being in this country on a daily basis. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130251	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Then I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Bock from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130308	Thank you. I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports, and the reason for this is not that we are absolutely enthusiastic about everything that is going on in the European Union, but we are pleased that we have managed to make a saving of 1 billion. kr. home to Denmark. On the other hand, I would like to say that we will keep a very close eye on whether or not it is actually possible to ensure that it is implemented. We are also concerned, like other parties here in Denmark, with ensuring that the EU budget does not increase in the coming years. We believe that it is good to be involved in European cooperation, but that cooperation has developed in a way that interferes with more and more details, which should in fact lie outside the respective Member States. In the Liberal Alliance, we want a narrow European Union that concentrates on core tasks, that is, peace, freedom and free trade. We support what has been presented today. Because that suggests that you start to think narrower, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130413	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock. Then I will pass on the floor to the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130429	I do not think I should fail to begin by congratulating Mr Seligman on his work. Finn Sørensen for the first draft... I must understand the May 1st speech. I understood it was the rehearsal that we kind of got here today, and I'm sure that when mr. Finn Sørensen gets that speech trained enough many times in the Assembly Hall, then it will be a very good 1st May speech that we will hear in a few months' time. However, it did not have much to do with what is on the agenda here, which is, of course, the EU's revenue and the budget that we have to decide on now. It has to be said that what we have to decide is whether or not we want a billion. And in the Conservative People's Party we are, in fact, faded to say: yes, thank you, we want a billion. So we support the proposal from the Finance Minister and thank you for the billion. There are some comments in the proposal which relate to the idea on which the Commission is working, namely to make a financial transaction tax. We are against this, but it is not the case that we are included in it. That is not what has been proposed here either, it is just mentioned in the comments. However, since this is mentioned in the comments, I would just like to say that the Conservative People's Party is opposed to such a financial transaction tax, but we support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130549	The next one is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130612	Thank you for that and thank you for the contribution of the rapporteurs and the broad support for the proposal. I must emphasise that the arrangement that we in the Danish Parliament are proposing today to ratify is, of course, part of the overall agreement that has been reached on the EU's multiannual financial framework from 2014 to 2020. And there it is quite right, as many rapporteurs have pointed out, that Denmark has achieved a correction of our EU contribution of 1 billion. kr. a year. Once the scheme has been ratified in all 28 Member States' national parliaments, Denmark will receive its annual rebate of 1 billion. kr. This is done retroactively and we expect it to happen during 2016. The Government has endorsed this Council decision on behalf of Denmark, and this has been done on the basis of a mandate from the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. The draft parliamentary resolution we are debating has been tabled because changes to the legal basis for financing the EU budget require ratification in all Member States, including Denmark. Previous ratifications of changes in the EU's income system have also taken place through a parliamentary decision. Once the EU's own resources system has been ratified, Denmark will have to pay 1 billion. kr. less in EU contributions per year than if the old scheme had continued. The way this Danish discount is calculated is that it represents exactly the difference between what Denmark should have paid with the old income system and what Denmark should pay with the new income system. As regards the national side of the case, the government's economic forecasts take into account the fact that Denmark receives its annual EU rebate retroactively during 2016. And that means that it has been taken into account that Denmark will have the money we have paid too much to the EU in 2014 and 2015 back in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130810	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. And this time there was a brief remark from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130815	Thank you. After all, we need to use our energy where it might be useful, and what I would like to ask is more of a factual information, namely whether the Minister of Finance can confirm that, despite the rebate, it is still the case that there is a deficit or, what should we say, a minus when we compare Denmark's contribution to the European Union with what we receive from the European Union. The figures I have been able to find show that it must now be around 6 billion. kr. Then I have deducted the discount that has been obtained now. That's the one question, that's whether it's on that layer. The second question is whether the Minister of Finance can also confirm that this means that Denmark contributes disproportionately to, among other things. to keep alive some lucrative discounts, not least to the UK, which still have an incredibly favorable discount. So I would like to know if the Minister can confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130920	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121130921	If it were to be understood that I am considered to be a place where it pays to use my powers, then somehow I am grateful for it. It may also have been the Danish Parliament which was referred to that I do not know. I have not as presented as part of my readiness the exact figures on how the position is in relation to our net contribution. But it is quite true that over a number of years we have been net contributors to the Community. This is also linked to the fact that we are one of the richest countries in the European Union. And although we are, of course, fighting for our interest in, if I may say so, making the most of this, it is so in a community that general solidarity often says that the broadest shoulders bear the most, and that is also true in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131007	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131009	Thank you. After all, I pointed out that I was spending my time on the Minister for Finance, because I expected to be able to get an answer with factual information. But I admit that this has also happened, for example. lately that it has been useful to use political force to talk to the Minister for Finance. And of course that's good enough, let's get some more of it. What was my point was that Denmark is what is called net contributors in a nice word. This means that we have a cowardly deficit in the accounts between us and the European Union, and that a large part of the billions we pay too much, or how to put it, does not go to the poor, but to finance an extremely lucrative rebate for some of the rich countries, for example. Great Britain. That is what I would like to know if the Minister can confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131057	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131058	This is among other things. exactly the ratio that will be corrected with the discount we are being awarded here. It has been the driving force on the Danish side, that is, on the part of the Danish Government, but of course with a united Danish Parliament in the back, that we are financing a disproportionate proportion of other countries' rebates, if you look at how it worked up to the decision we are then preparing to ratify today. Otherwise, it must be said that there is a certain coherence in the fact that those who have the most help those who have the least, including in relation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131127	I thank the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak on this point, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131154	I would just like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 November 2014. For reasons of explanatory statement, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131212	Here we have to see that Denmark is a pioneering country and that it may not be in so many contexts, but on this point I do not really think it is very good. 'Cause it's coercion in terms of digitalization. Elsewhere, it's a possibility. If, for example, we take Norway, which is one of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves, and which is very close to us, it must be voluntary there. Sweden has set up a voluntary commission to investigate the advantages and disadvantages; it will probably take a few years to arrive at what you really think about it. We think this is healthy and sensible, because this is a very, very big thing that is being pulled over the heads of the citizens. In Denmark there is no ex-expert investigation work, only the statements of the government and the Digitalisation Board's own officials that the Danes are ready and that there will be no disadvantages for the citizens; in fact, the bill adopted and voted against by the Danish People's Party says so. It should not be understood at all in this way that we are opposed to digitalisation. In fact, we believe, yes, we know that a great many citizens are using it today and that it is easy in everyday life that you can just get on the computer and see what is going on in different places. It may also be noted that we are becoming increasingly dependent on the social media, which may also cause some disadvantages in other contexts, but that is the way things are, as is said in Denmark, and we cannot resist it. And it's hard to stand up to it. Where we're just trying to put our foot down, we're saying this is coercion. How many people actually have the opportunity to just get a computer? Well, you have to have it from the age of 15. You depend on having a computer from 15 years of age until you die if you want to keep up with the authorities. We find this deeply insulting in relation to the freedom that should exist in this area. Of course, we think it should be an option rather than an opt-out; it is not. We can even say that the public sector is not at all in this context, that it is not at all prepared in the public sector to take part in this very, very large decision, which is being pulled over the citizens' heads. This is clearly the system before man. It's not volunteering. It's coercion, and we don't think you should be surrounded by that. There we would like to hear the response of the government, too, of course, of the other rapporteurs, as to whether at least this decision could be postponed, so that everyone, not only those in the public but also private citizens, was better prepared for what was going to happen in relation to this very big thing, as it actually is. I very much look forward to hearing the Minister's reply and the speeches of the other rapporteurs. This has already led to a fairly wide-ranging public debate, and we believe that it will be reinforced in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131519	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. And then it is the Minister of Finance for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121131531	Thank you very much. I must begin by stating, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has also said, that the Danes are one of the most IT-ready peoples in the world, and that is now, I think, a quite positive prelude to our country. It is the case that more than eight out of ten Danes use a computer daily, and it is the case that more than 90 per cent. of the Danes have access to the internet at home. It is therefore a natural expectation that communication with the public sector can also take place easily, flexibly and efficiently via the network. As a whole, digitalisation and automation can help to improve services, which can also help to improve the efficiency of procedures and communication between the public and the public. When you introduce digital mail, you make folders on bookshelves and papers that are often messed up or lost; at least in my own case, and I think that is also the case for many other Danes. At the same time, the letters come out more quickly and there is greater certainty that the letters have actually been delivered to the right recipient, and it is always possible to access your mail, whether you are out or at home. Against this background, the government has chosen an ambitious, but also realistic digitalisation agenda, where the starting point for public communication in the future is that it is digital and that it should apply to all those who can. The objective is that 80%. communication with the public sector in Denmark in 2015 will take place digitally. In 2012 and 2013 it became mandatory for citizens to operate digitally in a total of 39 service areas, and very soon on 1 December of this year 26 additional areas will be added. On November 1st, 2013 and this is probably part of the reason for this request • it was also mandatory for companies to receive digital mail from the public sector. And a few weeks ago, on 1 November 2014, it became mandatory for the citizens who can to receive digital mail from the public. The introduction of mandatory digital mail has economic potential of approx. 1 billion kr. Annual phase-in phase-in in 2015. In addition, there is a potential of an additional 900 million. kr. a year when the four planned waves of mandatory digital self-service are phased in in 2017. And that totals almost 2 billion. kr. per year in efficiency gains, and that is money that I personally and also the government as such would rather spend on welfare than on paper forms and on postage. So far, there has been very broad support for that agenda, and the joint public digitalisation strategy, which sets out the framework for the digitalisation efforts towards 2015, has both the government, KL and Danske Regions behind it. The legislation on mandatory digital self-service and on digital mail for citizens and businesses has been adopted by a broad majority here in the Folketing. Figures for the notification of digital self-service solutions at the same time show that the target of 80%. digital communication is realistic. In several of the areas transferred to compulsory self-service on 1 December 2012, more than 80% are implemented. of applications and other communication today digitally. For example: almost nine out of ten relocation reviews were made digitally in the spring of 2014. And in relation to digital mail, approx. 3 million shipments as public digital mail per month, and each of those shipments contains a significant postage saving. A very specific question is asked about the introduction of digital mail requirements, and in relation to this, I can inform you that the digital mail law of June 2012 made it compulsory for all citizens over 15 years of age to have a digital mailbox per year. 1 November 2014, to which public-sector mail may be sent. It has also become possible to be exempted from this requirement if one meets one or more of the grounds for exemption laid down in the digital mail law and in the exemption orders for natural persons from connection to digital mail. And if that's the case, for example. never used a computer or doesn't have a computer in your own home, so you can easily be exempted. The same is true if you suffer from physical or cognitive impairments which, in one way or another, prevent you from using digital mail in an appropriate way. The application for exemption is made by handing in a signed form to the municipal civil service, and if you are unable to attend the civil service, then the application can alternatively be lodged by relatives by means of a mandate. And when it is necessary to show up, this is due, among other things, to the fact that citizens' services have to assess whether temporary or permanent exemption should be granted. In addition, this personal appearance allows the citizen to receive guidance on e.g.: the possibility of giving access to a family member, and in many cases this may be more appropriate than an actual exemption. After all, digital mail does not involve any costs for citizens. The digital mailbox is created free of charge. It is automatic for those who have not already signed up and, as I mentioned earlier, digital mail offers a number of advantages for the individual citizen. You can access your digital mailbox either via the citizens' portal, which is called citizen.dk or via e-Boks, which approx. 4 million Danes are already registered. Public authorities have already converted large parts of their letter mail into digital mail and, as mentioned earlier, 3 million letters are now being sent a month, and this figure is expected to increase further in the coming months. Then there is the question of voluntaryness in connection with digital communication with the public sector. First of all, I would like to point out that the requirement of mandatory digital mail is a legal requirement adopted by a broad majority of the Folketing. And it has always been the intention that digital communication is for those who can, but that we neither want nor can force people who, for one reason or another, are unable to use a computer to communicate digitally. Therefore, the digital mail law also takes into account the fact that not everyone is able to use digital communications. And there I think it is important to stress that for those who cannot, the situation is now quite the same as it was before 1 November: they can receive their mail as paper letters in their ordinary mailbox. So there is no digital coercion against citizens who cannot use the Internet. Pr. On 1 November there were 479,000 Danes, equivalent to 10%. By the population over 15 years of age who had been exempted from the requirement of digital mail, this indicates a high level of knowledge of the possibility of exemption and the proper functioning of the procedures for exemption. An MEGAFON study, carried out at the end of September 2014, showed that 97% of the population in the United Kingdom were affected by the disease. of the population already at that time knew that digital mail would become mandatory. Among the older population, which has been specifically focused on, was the knowledge of the highest, which says something good about our older fellow citizens. And it was also in the group of them from 65 years up that most citizens had either signed up or applied for exemption by 1 November. So all data suggest that the Danes generally know and are ready for digital mail and that those who cannot use it have been largely exempted. Having said that, I would like to stress that the use of digital mail, including, among other things, continues to be followed up. in relation to the ease of use of the solution, as well as how the solution is used by the very young people who we know have a particular challenge in dealing with public mail. Furthermore, there is a continued focus on ensuring that all those who cannot handle a digital mailbox are exempted or provide read access to relatives so that they can help with the digital mail. And this new opportunity to give reading access is in itself a great improvement compared to what we've known in the past, i.e. before these rules came into force because it allows the individual citizen to give, for example. relatives, lawyers or accountants have access to selected parts of their correspondence with the public. For example: a person living in Copenhagen can thus help his old father or mother in North Jutland with the digital mail, and this can be done among other things. reduce the risk of missing important letters from the public sector, and this can facilitate communication there, where for example. a family member or another representative is handling a particular case for one. The follow-up to the use and the continued focus on exemption will be an ongoing effort, which we have a good cooperation with the municipalities on. They continue their intensive outreach work in order to exempt citizens who cannot be expected to take care of it themselves; for example, they can: be residents of nursing homes as well as socially vulnerable. And to ensure that citizens do not miss important mail, citizens who have received a digital mailbox but have not yet logged in will receive a message per message. paper letter, first time they receive digital mail. In this letter, citizens are informed of how they read the digital mail and how they might be exempted or give other readers access to the mailbox. Overall, I am convinced that we have taken the right steps and an adequate follow-up to ensure the best possible use of digital mail for citizens. And I believe that the data we have at our disposal supports that conclusion. Finally, I would like to address a question which has been raised recently, namely why the authorities are not obliged to send mail digitally when citizens are now obliged to have a digital mailbox. First of all, I would like to say that it is a legitimate expectation of the citizen that the public sector should take a stand and communicate digitally in all cases where it makes sense. And the fact that the recipient base is now present on the digital platform naturally encourages the authorities to convert their communication to digital as soon as possible, simply because there is a lot of money to be saved for all public authorities. We know, as I mentioned earlier, that several million consignments are already being sent through digital mail every month, and we know that more is going to happen and that larger mail volumes will be converted into digital mail in the near future. That is the right development and it is well on the way. The authorities need to convert their business processes and their IT systems to handle digital mail, and this is a major process of change that most authorities have actually come into place by 1 November. I should also like to point out that there are items which, for very good reasons, cannot be sent digitally, not now or in the foreseeable future. This is true, for example. Health card, passport, and other types of letter containing physical material. And then there are items that may need to be digitized, but where digital mail is not necessarily the best channel. This is true, for example. information letters without personal information that can be sent via e-mail, or cases that were previously handled on paper but can be handled via digital self-service solutions. The key point is that the authorities must communicate digitally where it makes sense to do so. The government, KL and Danske Regions expect the last authorities to be fully in place by the end of 2015 with their transformation to digital communication with citizens. So, although in some cases the individual authorities are not yet quite clear, we should not wait to reap the gains and improvements in services that have become possible as a result of the switch to mandatory digital mail. For every day we wait, it costs money that can be spent on other tasks; every penny counts, as you know, and every penny can be spent on real welfare rather than on postage and paper. That is why I see no reason to reconsider the decision taken and in force to introduce mandatory digital mail in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121132747	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We are going so further, and that means that the negotiations are starting in earnest now, and they are doing so with the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121132759	Thank you for your answer. I must admit that when I heard the Minister for Finance, I thought it sounded very safe and confident, because we have no problems in here, we can easily find out, and the officials around us can find out. But there are a large number of citizens in Denmark who find it very difficult to figure this out. I do not always think it has anything to do with age, it may also be about young people, but it is of course especially the elderly who are so caught up in this, and the Elders case has been aware of this for very good reason. I think that e-Boks, that is, this digitalization law we are discussing, is the system rather than the human being, and that is what I turn so strongly against. It is good for the system that all information about the individual citizen is collected in one place, namely under the personal number. Here, any public authority can then and hacker for that matter find everything, medical history, social status, income, employment and much, much more • all essential personal information. E-Boks is mandatory. If you think of an elderly cancer patient and say to the person concerned: If you do not have an e-Boks, you do not get the call for chemo and other treatment you can go to the municipality and maybe be exempted. I think it is an arrogant attitude to take, and one has to note that, and I think the Minister for Health is aware of this too, the Minister for Health must at least be that there are already citizens who are getting into trouble today because they simply do not see the call they are getting to, for example, the hospital or other public authorities. It is therefore an abuse and humiliation of people who do not have or use computer or iPad. In fact, I do not know about any other country, nor, as I said in my presentation, is there really a duty for citizens to have a computer or to have access to one. Imagine having a duty to have access to a computer. It's absurd to say so! Why don't you listen to what it really is? I think it is really terrible to see how many people today are totally dependent on digital systems and social platforms that destroy personal, free life. Now it is Parliament and the system that forces everyone into the fold, and a number of expenses come with it. We have talked a lot about the Arab Spring, and sometimes you think you need a Danish spring. There is incredibly much confusion when the sender is e-Boks: the public, the municipality data, the municipality etc. The public sector is not ready to serve the citizens, as the Minister for Finance has also made clear, and that is a scandal in itself. People are being asked to be ready from a certain date, but the public is not ready. Why on earth this haste? I stress again that the Danish People's Party is not against digitalisation, but we are against coercion, because we want volunteering. So not everyone is privileged enough to have access to a computer and Internet. The reason may be money, it is in many cases, you understand, a computer is not such a long-lasting one, so at some point it has to be replaced. There may be age, there may be disabilities, there may be many things. And then you say, "Well, you can just go up to the municipality and ask for an exemption." I guess not everyone feels that way, just going up on the municipality and being exempted. There are many and more and more people in this society who feel that this is something you can just do, but there are also a lot of older people who do not feel that it is something you can just do, but who feel they are going to trouble and think they are incredibly intrusive. An application for exemption under criminal liability is made under criminal liability! It says that you can get as much as four months in prison if you are going to give false information. It is, of course, a suspicion of the citizens who want something very much. Then I have to say something, and I can say that before the other rapporteurs come on. I do not know whether the rapporteurs of the Left and Conservatives are aware that in 2006, exactly on 4 April 2006, the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, presented a paper at a press conference, a document which was a political presentation. •Employment, renewal, security was the title of a comprehensive plan which was mostly about public schools and universities, which were supposed to be world-class. That is also a very sensible thing. But at the same time, for the first time, the plan presented the idea of digital mail, and it says explicitly: for citizens it is an option that is not a duty. I think that the Left and the Conservatives have overlooked it, but I feel the need to remind you of it. It is only under the present government that this promise is abandoned. It will therefore be no shame or defeat at all for the Left and the Conservatives to support the Danish People's Party in a proposal either on voluntaryness, which would be the very best, or at least on exposing the duty to citizens, for example. 12 months, for then it may be that the government itself is better prepared by then. It must also be noted that once some measure has been adopted in the public sector, there have been many, many times enormous problems. I could mention the registration, security breach, driver's license information that was hacked, let alone a fairly topical case, where a hacker has had access to public registers for many months and has been able to modify or delete them without being discovered, and the state has been on bare ground. So there are a lot of citizens who do not like it and who feel extremely insecure that now you just hand it over to the computer, and then you feel it is out in some places where you don't really want it to be. I want to come back because I have a lot to say on this matter. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten, I have to submit the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that digital mail for citizens must be an opportunity, not a duty, and therefore the Danish Parliament requires the government to take measures to ensure that each citizen decides whether or when he or she wishes to create a digital mailbox. The Danish Parliament stresses that the compulsory introduction of the digital mail by many citizens will be seen as an interference in personal freedom and a significant limitation of citizens' opportunities for personal communication and dialogue with the authorities. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 -
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133450	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has just to stay here because there are a few brief comments. I should just like to point out that the proposed proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then we move on to the first brief remark. It is from Mrs Stine Brix of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133506	Thank you. As Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard concluded, we share a proposal for adoption today because we in the Enhedslisten fully agree that the key word in terms of digitisation should be that it is voluntary and that it is not coercive. But there is one thing that puzzles me, because it is the case that, in addition to this bill adopted a year and a half ago that digital mail should be compulsory or under compulsion, we have also had three major legislative proposals in this Chamber that self-service should also be compulsory, and in this context the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of the Bills in contrast to the Enhedslisten, which voted against. But why is it that you see that difference? Why is it that the Danish People's Party believes that you should not talk about compulsion in relation to digital mail, but that you can talk about compulsion in relation to digital self-service? There is exactly the same thing at stake for the citizen that you can also sit and have difficulty finding out the systems, that you can feel insecure, in terms of whether it is the right information that comes out and that you may also need to be able to talk to some of the citizens' services. So why is there the difference from the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133617	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133619	I'd be happy to take that debate. That may well be relevant in that. We can get back to that, but for the time being it is the digitalisation itself that this debate is about, and that is what I want to focus on today, but I would very much like to take the debate another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133634	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133636	I also mention this because the digital self-service is, after all, a cornerstone of the whole digitalisation process and part of the legislative proposals that have been about digitalisation. After all, there is a fourth wave that we are also waiting for, which is about several things where it has to be made compulsory, that you have to apply digitally, i.e. these self-service solutions, and I think it would be very good if the Danish People's Party would take a critical look at it too, as well as perhaps one should discuss whether the other things already adopted by law now should also be forced and that you should apply digitally. So it is part of the digitisation process when we look at self-service, and I believe that there is exactly the same thing at stake that applies in relation to the digital mail.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133716	Mrs Stine Brix can have a point in that and, as I said, I would very much like to come back to the second part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133728	Good. And that was the first brief remark we made here. And the next one is Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133731	Thank you. I will be on the same street, because I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard should answer the question. It is true that the Danish People's Party has voted against digital mail, but the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of all three collective laws on mandatory digital self-service. I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard why she finds it easier for older citizens to find their way around and reply to forms on different public websites than it is to open their own personal digital mailbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133801	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133803	I don't think it's much easier. And, as I replied to Mrs Stine Brix, I would very much like to come back to the further questions that are also in this whole digitisation process, which I think we are moving into more and more. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that we are becoming more and more dependent, and it may well be that we have become more dependent than we really wanted to be. So I would be happy to come back to the second part of it. But what I want to keep my attention on today is all this digitalisation as such, on which I also think other rapporteurs should perhaps concentrate instead of trying to move the debate somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133838	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133840	Well, the self-service module is very much about digitalization. But now to another question: Where does the Danish People's Party intend to fund the billion that they do not want to save by means of digitalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133857	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121133858	I would very much like to have a debate later, when this brings something more with it, to see if we really save a billion. Actually, I don't think we're going to. I think this is going to turn into a scandal, where we are just seeing that the billion that the Minister of Finance is expecting 1 billion that will be saved on this one is not going to fit. What about the large group of people who are not mentioned in the Minister of Finance's reply and who are not part of it? Where are they? Where is the whole right of appeal, that is, all the people who want to complain about these things? I don't believe for a moment that this will save you. Perhaps the Reichsaudit will come to that in a number of years, i.e. this was something that should not have been undertaken and that the billions that were expected were by no means suited. And then I heard the Minister of Finance say that it should be used for welfare. That sounds good. Let's just spend some more money on welfare. But first of all let us find out where the money comes from and that it is the real billion. That would be nice. But is there anyone who believes in it, other than those who sit here on the chairs and want it here, i.e. that there will be a saving of 1 billion? I do not believe in it for a moment, but we can at least come back to it and have it denied or confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134008	Then answers were given to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134013	Thank you, President. I have to go back. The Danish People's Party has asked a question which reads: What can the Minister of Finance say about the government's digitalisation policy? And it's all about a lot, much more than just digital mail. Then Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard talks about the need for a Danish spring. Well, let's take a look at the spring of the Danish People's Party for the last 3 years. In 2012, people voted to digitise the relocation, to apply for daily offers, to enroll in the primary school and to order health insurance cards. In the spring of 2013, the Danish People's Party voted that there should be mandatory digital self-service when it comes to choice of doctor, naming, name change, declaration of paternity, bicycle theft and many more things. In spring 2014, the Danish People's Party votes for mandatory digital self-service in relation to building permits, custody, separation and divorce. Is it not a bit double moral that one is now simply saying that coercion is quite horrible and so on, when one has voted for it in the last three spring itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134111	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134112	I can only reply, as I have done twice now to two rapporteurs, that I think we should deal with this question and respond to it by the rapporteurs, but hopefully we will come back to the way in which this proposal for adoption is put forward. I hope the rapporteur will respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134128	Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134132	But you have asked a question that goes on the government's digitalisation policy in general, and it deals with more things than just exactly digital mail. But at least let it go. So let me ask you specifically about digital mail, because I actually think we need to get some facts on the table here in the debate. Wouldn't Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard recognise that if you have cognitive impairments that make it difficult to use digital mail, physical impairments that make it difficult to use digital mail, if you have no access to computers, if you are out of Denmark, if you are not permanently resident, if you have linguistic barriers, if you have trouble getting NemID because of abroad, or if you live in an area with poor Internet connection, then there are opportunities today to be exempted?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134214	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134216	Yeah, and if you go up in the municipality and say you're a little dumb and you can't really figure this out, you can also be exempt. There it is just that I raise the problem: how many citizens do it? Well, that doesn't mean you're stupid, but you have all the problems that were listed here. However, there are also a great many citizens who have a modesty and who do not want to go up to community service and say all these things and ask for exemption, or who may not be able to find out what may not have a neighbour or a family member or others who can follow you up to the municipality to do so, and who are not aware at all that it is possible to do so. There's a huge problem with that. It's like we've become a community where you can just walk up to the municipality, and then you can say that and that. I mean, if I'm gonna... I don't want to be signed up for this, can I just go up and say that I just don't want to? Or what? That will then create a problem, and I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134308	Yeah. We thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the questions, and we shall move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the Left, sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134323	Thank you, sir. President. I can already tell you that my rapporteur's speech here contains a slightly more positive approach to the proposal. Then you're warned. Denmark is one of the world's leading countries in terms of digitalisation and the ability of citizens to communicate easily and quickly with public authorities around the clock. For the vast majority of Danes it makes everyday life easier, and contact with the public no longer has to include visits to the City Hall in the normal working hours with queues and waiting time. Today, the vast majority of things can be handled online around the clock. Denmark has seized technological opportunities and used them to introduce a better service for its citizens. In fact, we are quite unique here, as many of the other countries with which we usually compare ourselves in the European Union are not nearly as far ahead. This is because we have been out very early in Denmark. Already back in 2001, the process of digitising the whole public sector was initiated and this was done on the initiative of the Left. As I said, the digitalisation of public relations is a clear advantage for the vast majority. However, there are also citizens who are not familiar with modern technology and who are not. That's right. Of course, we must not cut them off from public relations. Therefore, the possibility of being exempted from digital mail has been introduced. When we make such a far-reaching and visionary decision as the digitalisation of the public sector, there is also responsibility. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone remains safe in communication with the public sector and that those who do not have the ability to communicate digitally do not notice a difference. For example, the elderly citizen without access to digital communication must, of course, continue to have the opportunity to obtain important information from home care or the hospital in the well-known way. It is important that we continue to allow sick, disabled or elderly citizens to be exempted from digital mail. At the same time, we must ensure that those who need help getting on the digital mail receive the best possible service. It is a task that citizens' service promises in the municipalities, but also libraries and voluntary associations help to help older people, in particular, become digital and familiar with digital communication with the public. The switch to digital mail provides a saving of about 1 billion. kr., as mentioned earlier. It is money that can be used for far more appropriate purposes than envelopes and postage. For the Left, however, it is absolutely essential that the security of the public's contacts with the public should be clear about the way in which private and personal information is handled. There have recently been too many examples of security being inadequate and private information falling into the wrong hands. At the same time, there are growing problems with so-called identity theft, where criminals obtain access to loans, etc. using other persons' IDs. We must keep a constant focus on the fact that security is the highest possible for digital mail and other public IT systems. At the same time, we must focus on the fact that there are as few technical problems as possible. Crashes cannot be avoided, but they must not happen so often that the citizen loses confidence in public IT systems. Overall, the Left is pleased that it has succeeded in rolling out ambitious digitalisation of the public sector. This gives an easier daily life for the vast majority of Danes, while at the same time giving us the opportunity to offer a better and more flexible service. However, we must not forget in our enthusiasm for the new opportunities that many Danes remain unfamiliar with the new technology, and we must not lose these, but instead ensure that they continue to have access to the same service and have the same rights. Then I have a proposal for adoption. Can I read it now? Thank you, sir. President. I have a proposal for adoption prepared by the other parties in the Folketing, except the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, i.e. all parties in the Chamber except the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten are behind the proposal for adoption which I am reading out now: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the transition to digital mail for citizens seems to have been satisfactory for the time being. However, it is stressed that the government and the other joint public partners must continue to focus on the fact that the citizens who need it will be exempted. It must also be possible for citizens in the future to receive information and guidance on the use of digital mail from the authorities. Similarly, there must be a continued focus on reminding citizens to check their digital mail. At the same time, the Folketing considers it important that the authorities meet the legitimate expectations of citizens to receive as much of their post from the public sector as possible in their digital mailbox in future. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20141121134938	Thank you, sir. Finn Thranum as rapporteur for the Left. There are no brief comments, so thank you for that. Sir. Finn Thranum is done. Excuse me, sir. Finn Thranum must come back up here. I had overlooked the fact that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard pressed in, perhaps a little late, but nevertheless pressed in. No!). Well, there is something that may have gone a little wrong, but that is certainly Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135003	Thank you. After all, it was nice to hear and to be presented with the proposal now. This proposal for adoption, of which we are not part, nor do we want to be a part. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, because I think that is quite important since it is precisely the Left that we have not been aware of the promise made by the Left. This goes back to 2006, but it was when the issue of digital mail first entered the debate, when the former Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, actually promised that it would happen on a voluntary basis. It was in the paper entitled "Employment, renewal and security." I believe that a Leftman can remember that, at least the paper, perhaps not exactly the individual sentence. But it is on page 91 of the paper that the Left made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135052	Then it's mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135053	I can hardly remember now, because at that time I did not have the honorable job of being a member of the Folketing. I know that the Left, of course, pays tribute to the principle of freedom, but it is also voluntary that we can withdraw from it, and that is what we have chosen to do in connection with this. We think it's a good idea. We have seen other examples of places where we like volunteering, for example. in the area of organ donation, and there we can see what happens when we make it an option instead of an opt-out, namely that we have reduced the number of organs. In this way you can actually use it as a reflection on this case. We want to go into this digitisation process. We think it's important. We believe that this is what society is based on now and in the future. All we have to do is take into account the insecurity or concerns that I mentioned earlier, and they are, of course, contained in this joint proposal for adoption, which all of us who are together on it will be included in. So I really feel quite safe about it, also on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135151	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135153	There is a difference between opt-outs and opt-outs when discussing volunteering. Well, options are voluntary. Abstention is not voluntary. That's the way it has to be. It is certainly in my terminology that you choose something, and you do so voluntarily. If you first have to choose from and have the inconvenience of the impossibility as it is for many people, then I do not think it has anything to do with volunteering.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135218	Then it's mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135219	Well, it's a question of how to turn the case around. I think this is what's gonna make it possible for you to volunteer. I can take my own example. I have a nice fresh mother of 88 years of age, who will have nothing to do with anything digital. It's not really because she doesn't have the skills. She just has the principle that she won't, just as she won't use a cell phone either. I was surprised that I wasn't about to help my mom with a few people signed up for this because when I talked to her, she said she had it under control. The home helper would have helped her fix that. So she had it under control, and she hadn't felt that there was anything embarrassing about going and saying that she wants to keep having the relationships that she's had all along.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135302	Thank you. Then there are a number of brief comments. The first is Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135308	Thank you. I know that in many other areas the Left likes to talk about the free choice of citizens. Now I myself am a social rapporteur, and in this area I know that there have been many debates on what I hear the rapporteur of the Left say every time that we are in favour of free elections for citizens. That's why I'd really just like to hear Mr. Finn Thranum comments on this particular area of digitisation: Why shouldn't you just do it voluntarily? Would it not be most in the spirit of the Left to have said what the Danish People's Party is now also saying in relation to my assuming that the Left also cares a great deal about the vulnerable groups? For these are the ones that the Danish People's Party's concern is primarily about right now, and not those who are just ready for digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135354	Then it's mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135355	Well, I would say to Mrs Karin Nødgaard that the weak and the vulnerable and the elderly and those who are not prepared to do so at all can be exempted. My mother's a good example. She has the ability to do it, she just doesn't have the will and the desire to do it. She was relieved of it. So that is a real example of how things are not as square as they are set up here. It is true that we pay tribute to the principle of free choice, but in this case we would like to support the digitalisation and the whole process, not least the saving of 1 billion. kr., which can be used many, many other good places. We would like to support this. And then, of course, we can mention other areas of society where there is something that is not voluntary, but which we have also adopted together. This can be done even if you are liberal and think that there must be freedom as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135443	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135445	I'd like to follow it up a little bit. In the motion for a resolution Mr. Finn Thranum stated that the process had been satisfactory for the time being, etc. Then I would really like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that it is satisfactory to know, just a few days ago, that two thirds of the homeless do not actually know what digital mail is. Is it really satisfactory when you hear such figures? It may well be that the group as a group in society is not huge, but that is precisely the group we need to worry about, in relation to everything that is happening now. Because there may be consequences. As we heard earlier, one actually writes under criminal liability etc. when it comes to asking for exemption. But it is not certain that they are aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135529	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135530	I fully agree with Mrs Karin Nødgaard that we must keep an eye on the fact that the homeless too can find out about this or get help with it. I happen to know that there are a lot of people who support and help and guide our homeless fellow citizens in all kinds of other contexts. And there I am thinking that it is also an opportunity in this context either to get them on the digital mail or to get them exempted from it. So, are there any examples of them being denied it? The concern expressed in this joint motion for a resolution very much takes account of the risks involved and allows for exemption, as I read it. But maybe I'm a little heavy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135615	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, also from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135620	The reason I took the floor was because the rapporteur said that the reflection on organ donation could be used. I think that this is a completely different debate, because it is, after all, about donating some of your organs, and it is not a mirror image that I think belongs here. I would really like to hear something from the rapporteur. After all, the rapporteur's party is very fond of rural areas, and what is happening in relation to rural areas and small towns is that citizens' services shut down and move to the larger cities. What is the rapporteur's position on this in relation to the bourgeois service? It is, of course, the case that the SFI has carried out a survey and in this context it is problematical because there is concern that contact with the bourgeois service is being lost. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135718	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135719	The bourgeois service can hardly improve with the digital platform for those who can find out. They get some unique opportunities to get close to it because you're in there and you're in there doing those digital things. Yes, you can certainly give some examples out in the outskirtsdanmark, where there are some problems with centralising some things and that it is difficult to get that help. But I am now of the opinion that you have trouble with this, and if you want help with this, and if you want to get rid of this, there's plenty around someone who has the opportunity to support and guide and help with this. So I'm not as worried as Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. And my example of organ donation was to be used as a picture of what happens at the moment you turn it into something you choose or opt out. I remember from my younger days that it was an opt-out from organ donation, while today it is an option, and it has meant that we do not actually have so many organs, so that's why I used the mirror image. And I still think this is a really good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135820	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135822	Now, in his speech on the matter of showing up in person, the Minister said that a mandate could be used. But does the rapporteur not recognise that not all people are able to give away a mandate? It may be the demented person who is unable to sign a mandate. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Does the rapporteur not think that there are any challenges to this, that is to say that you may be demented and cannot sign a mandate, and what should the demented citizen do?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135853	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135854	Mrs Karina Adsbøl mentions a dement, and if a dement is to enter all public systems in advance, or if the demented person is going to have to go to a bank or has to do anything else, then he must also have help and support, and at some point someone can go in and help and support the individual. You can do that in this case, too. If you're so hard demented that you're not able to do this, then you have some help, a home helper or anyone else, and then you can go down to the municipality and say there's a problem here. I think so, because how else did we solve many other things in this society, which the demented one also has difficulty in deciding?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135933	Then I have not recorded any more brief remarks. That means that Mr. Finn Thranum is done for this time. Then it is the next rapporteur who is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121135949	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by wondering a little at the wording of today's question, which deals with the government's digitalisation policy. In 2012, 2013, 2014, the Danish People's Party has voted for the three total laws that form the backbone of the joint public digitalisation strategy. So the whole Danish Parliament, the Enhedslisten, has voted in favour of digitisation, and therefore I think it would be more appropriate if the question had been about Denmark's digitalisation policy. Now, DF voted against the digital mail law, but it shows very well that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Dansk Folkeparti are on the warpath. As we have seen before, you say one thing, but you vote one both and, and now you avoid most of it. On the one hand, you vote for mandatory digital self-service, which for many can be quite difficult because they must be able to manoeuvre on websites and fill in forms digitally. On the other hand, we are voting against the fact that citizens should receive letters digitally. And then the Danish People's Party does everything you can to talk badly about digitalisation in the media and make the population, especially the elderly, afraid and insecure. At any rate, I have to say that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has devoted an impressive amount of energy to conducting a scaremongering campaign. The summit was when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard wrote that the elderly risked going to prison for several months if they forgot to sign up from digital mail. The idea that the policemen of the country would step up at home with old Mrs Jensen and handcuff her because she had forgotten to opt out of digital mail is simply absurd. However, the example shows very well how far DF will go in its scaremongering campaign. And precisely because so much nonsense has been said about digitalisation in the past, I am extremely pleased that we can discuss this issue here today. So why have all of the Danish Parliament's parties, except Enhedslisten, voted in favour of digitalisation? Yes, one reason is that we save approx. 1 billion kr. every year on administration, envelopes and stamps. This means that we get approx. 1 billion kr. more to the sick, the elderly and children. Another reason is that as a citizen you can serve yourself whenever and wherever you like via the digital solutions. A lot of people like that. I know that several groups with disabilities have looked forward to getting rid of the trip down to citizen service and are happy with the digitalisation. This also applies to many busy families of children, and it applies to everyone else who, in their everyday lives as a natural thing, uses the computer and maneuvers in the digital world, regardless of age and education. The transition to digital has been a major task, and when you make such a big change in the public sector, everything is obviously not going one hundred percent smoothly. There will be mistakes, and mistakes have also been made. What we have done with digitalisation is to power up paper. Therefore, the elf has also moved with where there has been trouble in the past. We saw that, among other things. in cases where digital mail about children is only sent to the mother, even if there is joint custody in divorce families. However, this is not due to digitalisation; it is a practice that has been carried over from paper to digital mail, and it is easy to correct, so both parents receive. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has used the word forced digitization in the past and is still using it away. One might then wonder why Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and her party have voted in favour of forced digitalisation, but it is simply wrong to draw a picture of the fact that the Folketing has forced citizens who cannot use a computer to become digital. I have said this many times before, but let me repeat it: citizens who cannot use a computer or do not have access to the Internet can continue to receive their messages from the public with the postman. All you have to do is go down to community service and tell them. I have not yet met a single elderly person who has been denied exemption. Of course, that is the way it should be. I've seen a study that showed 96%. of the elderly were aware that they could be exempted. I think that is quite impressive. I have visited computer rooms in Skive, in Viborg and in Copenhagen, and there I have met many older people who have become dus with the digital. I have also met older people who have concluded that they will never learn it well enough to be able to communicate with the public over the net. And yes, fortunately, you can be exempted. But you can also be exempted if you regret that you have signed up. I've said this before, and I'm going to say it again. If Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has heard of a single case where a citizen who cannot use a computer has not been exempted, I would very much like to hear about it. But I still think that we did the right thing when we, including the Danish People's Party, voted in favour of digitisation. We save a lot of money on stamps that can instead be used for better welfare for people, and we have made it easier and faster to communicate with the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140520	There are a few brief comments in the first place. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140527	I think it's too bad. The rapporteur must have had earplugs in her ears when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard gave her rapporteur's speech, because this is not a scaremongering campaign. It is simply a question of taking into account those citizens who are unable to act in the digital system. Compared to KL: It says on the KL website that KL and the government agree to make it mandatory for citizens who can service themselves digitally; this is very interesting. At the same time, the website says that you can only opt out if you show up personally. So it might well be that the rapporteur's party had to contact KL about the website and say to them that you do not need to appear in person, as we could hear the Minister say in his reply. The concern is for those citizens who have a disease such as dementia or a disability, who cannot show up personally and be exempt from the digital mail; it is in relation to not being able to sign a mandate and not having any related relatives to help them. Is the rapporteur not at all concerned about that group?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140642	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140644	In other words, when I mention the scaremongering campaign, it is because Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has said in many letters in all the newspapers in the country, at least in many of the country's newspapers, that the police are coming after the elderly. With regard to the fact that this can only be done on a personal basis, I would like to say that an authorisation can be granted if citizens' services are not available themselves. I would like to say, as Mr. Finn Thranum said earlier here from the platform that the group mentioned, disabled and demented, already has contact with helpers of various kinds. After all, they are in contact with the municipality, or they are in contact with various other people who help them either in their everyday lives or at least at intervals, and these people are also helping them to get out of this situation of getting signed up. We do, for example. seen Aarhus Municipality train the home helpers for, and it is very helpful to the elderly who receive special help there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140754	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140757	Does the rapporteur say that what Pia Kjærsgaard writes is a lie? Isn't it the case that writing incorrect information has come to that?Can you be punished with up to 4 months in prison? I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that. Something else is who can sign this mandate for a Who is going to help the citizen with that? The rapporteur must explain that in this Chamber. And, frankly, I think that it is the Socialists who are campaigning for scaremongering in today's Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140842	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140845	I could never dream of using the word lie here from the platform. Nor have I used it in the letters in which I replied to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. I don't want to use that expression. But I think it is a very serious matter that, as a well-known politician, you go all over the country and tell about how terrible this is and that people can now risk that, if they do not do exactly what they have to do and exactly on time, they may run the risk of the police chief standing out in the backyard. To sign when you're on citizen service and need an exemption: yes, you sign that it's the right information you've given. That's quite customary. This is also done on many other forms when you turn to the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140940	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121140942	I think it is a little amazing that Mrs Karin Gaardsted can stand with a calm voice and talk about handcuffs and chief of police, and that the police will come and take one. Well, I just want one proof that I should have ever written or said anywhere. I just have to ask Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Socialists to confirm that responsibility for providing correct information rests with the citizens. Citizens wishing to be exempt from digital mail must complete a form and sign that they are unable to receive the mail digitally. When the citizen signs the request for exemption, it will be subject to criminal liability. And the wording of the form is that the provision of false information to the public may be punishable by a fine or imprisonment up to 4 months. That is what it says, that is what I have said, and that is what the truth is. And that's what I think is so insulting. And yes, I do because I think this is a bad thing. And then you have to stop talking about chief and handcuffs, and I don't know what. I never mentioned that, so I really think that's what I call a scaremongering, a wrong scaremongering.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141053	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141055	If I use a calm voice, it's because I'm pretty calm. I would like to say that when you sign forms in relation to the public, you sign what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard read before. I did, too, when I was a single mother and I had to have my special allowance. I also had to sign it, and it was exactly the same things that were written there. I cannot understand why it should be necessary to go out to the public and say that if you make mistakes in this context, you could risk going to prison for four months. My father is 86 years old, and I asked him six months ago if he had taken care of it with digital mail, and then he said to me: Yes then, I just went down to community service and was exempted. So there have been no problems in this, and there are none of the elderly or disabled or demented who go down and ask to be exempted, saying something that does not fit. It's true when they say they can't. So I do not understand why it is necessary to keep in mind that we have signed that we can go to prison for four months.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141215	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141217	But, I would say to Mrs Karin Gaardsted, that is just part of it. And then it is good that Mrs. Karin Gaardsted's father has a daughter who sits in the Folketing, who has a computer and an iPad and other aids that she can find out, and who can ask her old father if he has now remembered either to sign up or been down on citizen service, or that, as Mrs. Karin Gaardsted said before, there is a nice home helper, if there is such a person around the homes who can help. In other words, if you bring into this debate these personal things, as Mrs Karin Gaardsted does, you have to put up with it being used against you. I just want Mrs Karin Gaardsted to deny that at any time I should have talked about handcuffs, policemen or other things. I really think it is a distortion of things that this debate does not actually deserve and where Mrs Karin Gaardsted is trying to turn the debate against me. I would now like to turn the opposite direction by saying that Mrs Karin Gaardsted is wrong. It has never happened. I am just writing speeches and letters of reading to which Mrs Karin Gaardsted is trying to reply, and here I am saying what this is really about in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141331	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141333	When, as a very well-known politician, we say in the media that people now need to know that they are at risk of 4 months in prison, I think this is a very serious matter. When the public needs citizens to provide real information, they do so in public by saying: Now you sign that the information you have provided to us is true. I think that is very reasonable. I will return to the letters of the reader who have been written, and then we can take the debate afterwards. Several things have come out today that we would rather not discuss. For example: Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard does not want us to discuss the whole of the digitalisation that the Danish People's Party has voted for. But let's just turn those reading letters one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141428	Well, then, sir. Finn Thranum asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141430	I would just like a little help from the Social Democrat rapporteur. Because I get so uncomfortable listening to all this skepticism coming from the Danish People's Party about this bill on digitalisation. Then I'm thinking, arm these elderly people, arm these degenerates, demented and homeless, and all of them. Are they really lost now? Is this how the rapporteur sees it, or would the rapporteur be kind enough to calm me down again by saying that there are actually a lot of opportunities to get help and support for this because a lot of people want to do this? And then I wonder if there's gonna be a saving with this, too? Isn't there an opportunity for that money to be spent on a lot of sensible things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141516	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141517	In any case, I have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that the billions we foresee saving on this can be spent on the elderly, children and sick, and I think that is a very good idea. There are plenty of possibilities that you can constantly get help with digitalisation if you need it. You can go on citizen service and get it, you can go to the library and get it, and the Elders Case has many courses around. There's a lot of help to get. I have also visited the Elders Case courses, and the Elders Case is very aware of the role they play in this. What is happening right now, and what I think the Danish People's Party is doing, is that they talk up a problem that is not really very big. I admit, then, that there are some that we still do not have, and I would also like to say that it is very much up to the municipalities to be aware of who they have in their municipality, who needs special attention, in addition to those who are in contact with the public in advance. So I am absolutely sure that everyone can get the help that they would like. In any case, they may also be exempted if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141630	Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141632	Thank you for your answer. At any rate, I was reassured, and I certainly hope that those who are listening feel reassured by this well-qualified answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141642	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141643	Thank you very much, sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141646	That was a short answer, but surely a relatively simple question. I would like to thank Mrs Karin Gaardsted, who has finished as rapporteur for this time, and then gives the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121141707	The date of 1 November 2014 was landmark. And why was that? Yes, because it was the day when we were all supposed to be on the digital wave and ready to receive all mail from the public digitally. I remember that Denmark's relatively newly appointed EU Commissioner Margrethe Vestager was originally the author of the citizens' order that we should all be digital. I also recall having taken part in some hearings and debates where Margrethe Vestager did not waver at all in her argument, and I remember clearly that when she was asked the question whether she thought that everyone could manage in the digital world, the answer was that if they couldn't, then they just had to learn it. I believe that when you say that as a member of parliament, it is approaching arrogance and arrogance towards a large proportion of the population who, up to the deadline, have still not signed up. Both, as we have heard today, are elderly people, not all elderly people, some younger people, but they are also vulnerable groups in the population, such as the elderly. The homeless. And I would like to make it clear that this is the group that the Danish People's Party is concerned about, namely those that we call the vulnerable. The reasons why you have not signed up may be many different, but for many it is a question of not having a computer or having been able to find your way around the jungle of information that is when you enter the digital world. I believe that everyone should also understand and accept the government, because there is a difference in how quickly we can each jump on the digital wave. The Danish People's Party believes that it should have been handled quite differently and so gladly that instead of coercion it had been voluntary to sign up to receive digital mail. I believe that politically it would have been more citizen-friendly and would have been a more citizen-friendly approach to the area. In today's query debate, of course, I look forward to finding out a little more about how the government will deal with this whole issue with the fact that there is still a large group of Danes who have not signed up. It is our hope that the government, and it is then today, with the Minister of Finance at the head, will realise that voluntaryness is the way forward, and also change some of the conditions that are before the law, rather than as a former minister, Margrethe Vestager, said that then they can just learn, and when she said they, it was understood that they were the citizens. We want to take the debate today on this particular group, and we have also done so, as I have now heard from other rapporteurs, in the media in recent months, and of course we are happy to do so in the Folketing today, and so it has nothing to do with the scaremongering campaign, but it is simply a matter of the fact that we think it is important that we also have the debate today and follow up on the legislation that has now been made. I do not think it can be right to ignore the fact that 41 per cent. of the Danes between 75 and 89 years have never been online, and among the youngest between 15 and 24 years there are twice as many of those who have not signed up for digital mail as they have signed up for, and that today, at least I have read that in newspapers, is approx. 1.3 million who have not yet signed up and feel ready to receive digital mail. I would like to make it clear that this is not about the fact that the Danish People's Party is alarmed by digitalisation, but we do not think that we can ignore these figures and we think that the way of volunteering is better to follow. In this way, I believe that the population will be more secure and able to follow the pace that suits the individual citizen rather than, for example, the pace that suits the individual citizen. In the past we must feel insecure, or that as a citizen we should be required to invest in a computer or at least feel that we should do so, or that perhaps we should do so, and I hope, of course, that the Minister of Finance will be able to talk about this a little later, if we are going to do so, for example. is homeless and you are not on the digital wave, so in fact may also risk losing some of your public services. That is why I think it is very, very important, even on such a day as today, that we listen to some of the organisations that have also expressed their concerns and believe that there is something that is not connected. There I can, for example. mention that it may be the Older Case, it may be what is called Project Outside, which has also mentioned that you are actually really concerned about the citizens' groups that you now represent. For the Danish People's Party, it must be important that when we talk about digitalisation, it must be a service improvement for citizens, where citizens feel that they are getting better solutions and do not experience anything being pulled over their heads. Then I also hope that when we come to a later round of questions, including in relation to the Minister for Finance, we will be able to go into what I think we may not have said so much about the issue, that the public authorities may not even be quite ready to deal with this whole task of digital mail, and certainly not about the digital mail from citizens. So the Danish People's Party has a healthy scepticism, I think, and that is what we want to bring forward in today's debate, and I also hope, of course, that we can get some clear answers, particularly from the Minister of Finance later this day, in relation to how the government will tackle the whole issue with those who are still not on the digital wave.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142242	Then there is at least one brief comment. It's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142246	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to reply to the following: can you be exempted if you do not have a computer, for example. as homeless, as demented or as elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142301	Then it's Mrs. Karin Nørgaard, no, Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142303	Now I'm Nødgaard, and that's what I've been called since 1966. Fourth Vice-President I have to learn that). Yeah, I hope so. Yeah, you can, you can be relieved. But my concern can also be in relation to the group of citizens who may actually have a computer in their homes and who only use it if, for example, they use it. should be on Skype and be in contact with a grandson who may be on the other side of the globe, or if you may have a little mail correspondence with a friend in Jutland, if you live on Zealand etc., but at all not able to go in and handle everything digitally. So you've seen a computer like that, and what happens when you've actually crossed that you don't have access to a computer in your home? Then you have it, and then we can go back to all that about section 163 of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142352	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142353	So I would like to ask the rapporteur: can one be exempted if one cannot manage to handle the tasks inside the Internet?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142402	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142403	I actually brought the whole form here, so I know exactly what things are on it, and I think that's fine. I just want to say that we in the Danish People's Party have some concerns about this. And it may well be that Mrs Karin Gaardsted has not met anyone who has had problems with it, but I have certainly received several inquiries, both from relatives, but I have also met older people who say: we are actually a little afraid of that, in relation to the fact that we are going to report off, and we have not actually received an answer, so we do not really know whether we are exempt or not. I was up to deliver something my granddaughter had printed, but I don't really know if I'm on the safe side now. So I think there are some challenges, and instead of saying that there is nothing we should deal with as politicians, then I think it is healthy that we on the part of the Danish Parliament are dealing with this very thing; and that is what the Danish People's Party chooses to do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142446	Then there is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142452	Thank you. But what the rapporteur has just said is that those that we must now take into account in connection with this digital mail are those who have a computer at home, but who use it just to go to Skype, communicate with some aunt or something else, and then I think: Wow, if you can do that, then you are a very advanced person. If you can turn on a computer, go to Skype and write an email, you're kind of digitally running, I think. Now the difference is just that you need a digital signature and that you have to open your digital mail. In fact, I believe that a great many people are underestimated in Danish society. Some of those who are the most tough on the computer are, in fact, often the less developed, who are extremely concerned about it. I can follow the rapporteur in some of her concerns, for example. The concern that there are more than one million people who have not signed up for it at this time. But the fact that you don't have a knowledge of traffic law doesn't give you the right to violate traffic law, does it? Now the rapporteur knows that this is being implemented, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the Danish People's Party have any suggestions on how we can improve it so that we can get everyone in relation to the digital mail?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142619	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142621	A proposal for an improvement, and that is also what I said in my speech, and I hope that the Minister for Finance will also comment on this. It is a delay, that is to say that we do not say that it should be from now on, and that is just the way it is and that we face reality. The rapporteur himself said that, in fact, 1.3 million people are not ready for it yet. In a country with a population of 5.5 million, after all, it must be something that signals something to the Danish Parliament. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is such a little bit I do not know how to say the way I sought to express it. In other words, the example I am mentioning with regard to Skype is, in principle, the same as answering the phone, and that is for example. something that some grandparents do in relation to their grandchildren. So that's not true; don't say it. This is a group of vulnerable citizens who cannot join the digital wave, and I now mention, for example. The homeless, too. There you can say that they do not have access to computers in their homes or at their place of residence and some of them do not even have a place of residence. I just think there are so many things we should deal with in relation to it. We must try to be realistic in relation to the world picture that is in Denmark, instead of just saying that in here we have everything under control, and then the people will get it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142730	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142731	I don't think we're signalling that. I have just acknowledged to the rapporteur that I think it is also worrying that there are over one million people who have not signed up at this time, but no one is being punished for it, and it will be a process that is going to happen. After all, some people are listening to this, who know that this needs to be done better. The homeless are mentioned all the time. I am actually quite sure that there are a lot of people among the homeless, not least volunteers, who support them and support them so that they can get the help and support that they need, and they can in any case be exempt from it if they go and say that they have a problem with the fact that they have no computer, that they have no phone, that they have nothing. So I think that the rapporteur here is drawing a frightening picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142818	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142820	Now I know that sir... Finn Thranum also sits on the Social Committee and I also hope that he receives the newsletters coming from Project Outside, and now I am not going to read out the whole newsletter, but in what came here a few days ago, on 29 October, there were actually some messages in relation to this. So I clearly believe that we have some challenges in here. In relation to the punishment, let us not do it as a scaremonger as such, but we must deal with what it says. And then perhaps we must also relate to the fact that there is a group in the population if we are talking about that part of the elderly who find it difficult to get on the digital wave, which is actually very authoritative and takes the words at face value and which can therefore be concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142900	Then we have come through the brief remarks. Thank you to Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Then we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121142911	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. In fact, I think that this is an important issue that we should be discussing here today, because we are in the middle of the transition to a digital society. We are no longer in a place where we are still asking questions about whether we should have a digital society; we have come to where we must ensure that the transition takes place in the best possible way. Radicals are thrilled that we are among the world's most digitized societies. This provides fantastic opportunities to serve citizens in a smarter way, so that resources can be better used. At the moment, we are still doing the classic digitalisation tasks of powering paper, you might say, but I also believe that digitalisation can be used to solve new challenges and link citizens closer to the public sector. I think we will see much more of this in the years to come. However, it is clear that there are some areas that we need to be aware of in this process. A large area is privacy and data security. There have been quite clear examples that our systems have not been safe enough, which has compromised the Danes' person-sensitive information, and this can help undermine confidence in a system. We do not serve as a public sector, because if we want citizens to use digital communication, they must of course also have confidence in it. That's not good enough. There is work to be done for us politicians to ensure higher safety standards. Another challenge is, of course, those citizens who do not feel ready for digitalisation, including having to communicate with public authorities digitally. In fact, I have a lot of respect for the fact that everyone isn't ready for that. I would like to emphasise this point. That is why we have also made a number of opportunities to be exempted. When you listen to the debate here, I think it sounds more like we are building up a fear that everyone will be forced into it, regardless of who they are, but there is, of course, a long and non-exhaustive list of who the municipality can exempt from digital mail. It can, for example, be done. if they have a cognitive impairment which makes it difficult to use digital mail; it may be if they have a physical impairment; it may be if they do not have access to a computer; it may be if they are out of Denmark; if they do not have a permanent residence; if they have language barriers that make it difficult to use digital mail; it may be if there are problems in obtaining NemID because you have a long-term stay abroad far from a Danish representation; and it may also be if you live in an area that has a very, very poor Internet connection. So there are actually a number of reasons to be exempted from using digital mail. I think it is in the interests of the debate and the fairness of the matter that we should have it mentioned. However, I think it is quite fair that we say to the Danes who know about IT and it is fortunately the vast majority of Danes that they can help the public by receiving their mail via the computer rather than via the mailbox. I think we have made demands on citizens on how to receive their mail since we got the first postal service. I think we can continue to do that. That is why we support the radical proposal for adoption presented by the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143227	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143238	Thank you. I must point out that I am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur today. I would like to start by saying that when you listen to today's debaters, you understand that you cannot accuse any of them of trying to make friends among the majority of people today. That is not what has been reflected in the debate. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the debate is reasonably relevant. It's a huge upheaval on the way. And whether it is decided or not, it is very wise to have a debate about it. It seems immediately that the transition to digital mail has progressed satisfactorily. However, none of us can be fully aware of the fact that this has happened without any problems, because it is not, and I guess it just shows why it is necessary to discuss it. The second important thing for us in the SF to say is that the public sector must continue to have a very strong focus on helping those people who think they need to be exempted. It is fundamentally important that we send that signal, just as it is incredibly important that we also send the signal that the work on information and guidance on the use of digital mail is not a complete task. It is a task that still needs to be worked on and worked on intensively. I also noticed, of course, that the Minister of Finance expressed enthusiasm for the porto savings. I could actually be tempted to say here if the Minister of Finance will listen to the fact that the postage-saving can be viewed differently if you are a postman like me. What does that tell you? That kind of tells me that there are pluses and minuses about everything. There is basically that in this discussion too, but for us in the SF there is no doubt that it is part of the way forward. We just have to stop pretending it's all that simple and things just go out there. What is also proposed in the proposal for adoption, which has come from the majority and which we support, is that it is important for the authorities to live up to the expectations of the citizens in this development. One might be tempted to express some concern about that part of it. Perhaps it will actually turn out that citizens are more able to live up to public expectations in the future, but it just tells us that we need to be very aware of this development. So basically we support the proposal for adoption that has come from the majority, but we are also just saying that it is necessary to continue this discussion. It is necessary to help those people who need this development and it is necessary for us to accept that there are people who cannot fully meet the requirements that we sometimes seem to be entirely legitimate here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143616	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143620	I think it is very positive to hear the SF's approach to this in relation to that group of citizens. Just as I also tried to say from the platform a short time ago that perhaps it would be an idea that the implementation of the law might have been postponed by a year or a few years, in view of the fact that it should be, as the text of the law now says, I would really like to hear what the SF would do about it if one could agree on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143653	Mrs Karin Nødgaard knows quite simply that I am standing here as a representative of our rapporteur, for our committee member, who will have to do the further work. And I am sure Mrs Karin Nødgaard will also know that it would be extremely inconvenient and strange if I were to commit our rapporteur in any way in this debate. That is why I also have to repeat that what is our concern I have expressed, namely the concern that we can continuously follow up this process. We'll take care of that. We will work intensively to help those people who need, and that is the part of what I can promise here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143743	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143745	Well, that sounds really good to me. Well, now I know that Mr. Karl H. Bornhøft is not new to the Danish Parliament. He has been here several times and so on, so I was actually thinking that the rapporteur is one who normally has it here, what to say, indignation, in terms of how to help the vulnerable groups in society etc. And then I just want to know if the rapporteur could reveal a little about what discussions are being held in the SF in order to follow up on this bill on digitalisation, and whether there should be any changes, so that we may just be able to embrace a wider group of those who have not been on the digital wave.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143826	Thank you. The questioner does not have to fear that I have lost any of my indignation in relation to the work that is here. What I want to point out today is that we are supposed to be like, for example: The Danish People's Party and other parties will continuously follow up on how this is progressing. If we need to take concrete initiatives, we will do so. But what is also important in this debate is, in fact, that we also send a signal of understanding that this can be difficult and that at the same time we signal to the authorities who are going to act on our behalf that we also expect them to take some account. That's the message.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143910	Then there has been another request for brief comments from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121143914	Thank you. Yeah, but it's nice to hear there's a voice of concern. Let me say to the rapporteur that the rapporteur is here as rapporteur for his party, regardless of what is going on in this matter. And since this concern is being expressed, which I am very pleased to hear, I think it would be appropriate for the rapporteur not only to say that some consideration should be given but also to say that if we could not get the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption through, we could perhaps do something about postponing this resolution. I know it has come into force, but that doesn't mean anything but that we can change it. We can say that we are postponing it one year, two years, or whatever, until we know more about this, until the public gets more, until the citizens feel more secure, if at last we think that everyone should be encircled by this e-mail, which is what this debate is all about. I think that the rapporteur should perhaps give a little more expression than what I heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144014	I noticed very well when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard had to answer several questions that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard thought she could refer them to another forum. What I can say here today is that the concerns I have expressed are those to which we will try to follow up. We are not when we have been involved in making a decision, and this probably also applies to the Danish People's Party. What we are saying is that we want to help ensure that the resolution is implemented in the best possible way and that, at the same time, we also help those people who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144101	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144103	How will the Socialist People's Party do this? When this debate gets shut down, I guess that's it. Then we will vote on the proposals on Tuesday, and that is it. But how will the SF actually respond to the concern expressed in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144123	I think the rapporteur is totally wrong. I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is completely wrong if she thinks that debate will end today. This is a development going on over time. We are going to experience various problems in the future, perhaps even some that we do not know the full extent of today. That is why I dare almost guarantee that this is not the last time that this issue of digitisation is up in the Parliamentary Chamber. It will be a discussion that comes up several times.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144203	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144212	From 1 November this year it became a duty for all citizens over 15 years of age to receive mail from public authorities digitally. The Minister for Finance said at the beginning of this debate that this is something that has been passed by law, and that is absolutely right. It was adopted by a majority about 21⁄2 years ago. At that time, the Enhedslisten voted against because we think it is wrong to force citizens to do so and not to give them an opportunity to choose for themselves whether they want to use digital mail in the public sector. And the same goes for digital self-service solutions, which have also been made compulsory and which in the same way force citizens to use these solutions. Moreover, it was a view that we shared with a large number of experts when the Municipal Committee, I think almost three years ago, held a consultation on digitisation, where many stressed that volunteering was a very important factor in including citizens in this process. We have not voted against because we are against digitisation as such, because we are not. It may be a very good service that we as citizens can apply for SU loans or report relocations on the web or some quite other things. And I believe that using the digital solutions correctly can actually help to open up bureaucracy and thus give the individual citizen much more power over his own life. It is our basic view that it must be up to the individual citizen to choose and to assess for himself what is the right form of communication with the authorities. In some cases it is the digital mail. In some cases it is digital self-service, and in others it is citizen service, telephone or something quite different. Today we have discussed a lot about the group of particularly elderly or socially vulnerable people who are not used to using a computer and can be in a difficult situation. And I think it is true that there are many who feel insecure and insecure about that situation. At least that's what I'm hearing from my older family members. Things that could be easily dealt with on one's own should now be found out in a new way, and some may also think that it is a little impertinent that you should go down like this and ask for an exception. Nevertheless, it is true that there are a number of possibilities for exceptions, and we were actually able to clarify this at the time when the law was being examined two and a half years ago. That is why I think it is a slightly wrong premise on which this debate is based, because that is not the main problem. The main problem is that there are many groups other than those who are not used to using a computer and thus can get an exception which can also get stuck when digital mail and digital self-service solutions are imposed. One of the major problems is that the whole way of thinking about digitalisation in Denmark depends to a large extent on knowing your rights as a citizen and what to ask for, which form to complete. And as a researcher at the University of Southern Denmark Søren Skaarup has said, there is today no form called: Help, I have no money, where should I apply? That advice is extremely important for finding a way around the public system, and I think that is one of the greatest threats to legal certainty. It also requires that you are able to read and find out complicated languages, and we know that there are many Danes also adults who do not have the reading skills required. Finally, I think it is very, very important to be aware that it is not only a limited group that can face the situation that digitisation is not the right answer. We can all do that. For it is clear that when you have to report a move or apply for a nursery place, it is such a relatively uncomplicated procedure. But when you have to apply for housing security or disability aid, or when the municipality has to make a decision where the municipality has a great power in relation to the citizen's situation, the situation is completely different: then you are in a skewed power relationship. There I think we may all need to look a person in the eye, present our case and be sure that we have been understood correctly and that the information has come out correctly. And there it doesn't really matter how used you are to using computers or how often you search the Internet. So the problem that I see can only be solved by the fact that the citizen himself chooses when she wants to use digitisation, and that cannot be solved by the fact that individual groups have exceptions. That is why we support the proposal for adoption presented by the Danish People's Party, and that is why we want to maintain that the smartest thing in terms of getting a successful digitalisation in Denmark is to base it on voluntaryness.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144726	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121144740	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this query debate. I think this is an important debate. I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement, although I sometimes found it difficult to understand what was said. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of digitalisation, because digitalisation has many advantages. I think, for example. Personally, it is a great relief that in the future I can communicate with the public via my e-mailbox, and I do not think it has been particularly difficult to get on. After all, everyone does not have the same confidentiality with using digital tools, such as digital tools. I have, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance are very pleased that there are a number of exemptions, so that people, such as myself, are able to do so. Doesn't have a computer at all. It's typically older people or people with different types of disability can be exempted from being on the digital mail from the public sector. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that I do not think everyone thinks it is so easy to get through with their wish for exemption, but the possibility of exemption is there. In fact, I would like to highlight another issue here, in which I think there is a great need for it to be followed up. Indeed, it is in relation to the elderly who actually want to go to e-mail but who need some extra help to get on. My own 79 - year - old mother, who even uses iPad and everything, had trouble finding out how she opened a letter that she had been told she had received. She's moving her equipment down to the municipality to get help on how to get in and open this letter, which she so much wants to open digitally. Here she is told that she must go home again and that she can look up some particular website and get help from there. I don't think that's okay. There are people who actually really want to make a lot of effort to support and participate in new ways of doing things, but when they need help for one reason or another, it is just not right that they are then sent back home with the message to look up on a website. We just have to do something about that. Such arrogance is not acceptable. I have heard from others who have similar problems. So my hope is that, in relation to the municipalities, we can clarify and clarify that now we have this law on digitisation, that we have exemptions and that it is good, but that for those citizens who have problems and need help to get started properly, they have a hundred percent obligation to help them and that it should not be just by referring to some kind of digital aid measure. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145102	I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party, as others have done, for having raised this debate, because it is an important debate, and it should certainly not be the last time that we have the debate. Our rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth, cannot be present today, and that is why I have promised that I will say the following: it is important to ensure that all citizens are taken into account when we change the way in which we inform our citizens. We Conservatives have been very aware of this. We have asked many critical questions and also called for consultation with the Minister on this matter. We were able to adapt the text and ensure that everything goes right to the citizens before we could support the proposal for digital mail. From 1 November 2014, anyone who can must receive mail from the public digitally. Pr. On 1 September, the authorities then sent 3 million shipments a month via digital mail, which means a huge saving which can instead be used for warm hands or otherwise for worthy needy ones. If, despite help and guidance, the citizen cannot communicate digitally, it will continue to be possible to receive letter mail, as has been done all along. Specifically, the exemption from public digital mail is granted by the fact that a citizen wishing to be exempted is personally present on the municipal civil service and signs a declaration that he or she fulfils at least one of the exemption criteria laid down. And for people who cannot show up themselves, it is possible that another person, for example. a family member or caregiver may appear and give the declaration by means of a mandate. So there are possibilities for anyone who can't handle this on their own to get mail as usual. I would also like to add that it is always important that we put people first. Digitalisation is important and good and proper for a great many people, but it must be of benefit to the citizens. It must be the case that we can always be exempted if we do not have the opportunity to deal with it, and that is what we are discussing here today. I would like to say that we in the Conservative People's Party will, of course, continue to follow up on this, because it is important, not least for the legal certainty of the citizens, that you can get the help you need if you cannot deal with it. You can also put it that, in addition to handling digital mail, you must always be able to talk to a person at City Hall if you need it. Part of this is also that we must be able to count on the fact that when our confidential information is handled, processed and stored digitally, we must also be able to count on confidential information being processed accordingly, being processed so that confidentiality and integrity are respected. There, unfortunately, we have seen a report from the National Audit Office showing that a number of major public institutions do not meet the requirements that we must make for the processing of confidential information. We must come after and ensure that these institutions live up to it. Of course, when we make demands on citizens to handle the processes digitally, we also have to demand that public authorities can then live up to the same. Sadly, there have been examples of this. So there are a great many reasons for having this debate, there are very many reasons why we are following it up all the time and that we should probably have debates like this one in the future too. I look forward to it. We, the Conservatives, will follow this very carefully. We must have an effective society, but we must also have a human society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145521	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145532	I shall be relatively brief and thank you for a good and interesting, I think, debate on a particular important issue. It is also a debate which illustrates once again in a very encouraging way, I think, that it is a very broad majority which, for obvious reasons, is behind these decisions. It's a process, it's a development that unites parties across a wide range of other disagreements, so there's actually a very broad collaboration on this. This applies not only here in the Assembly Hall, but also in relation to the various bodies in Denmark, i.e. both the government, the Danish Parliament, the municipalities and the regions, and also a number of voluntary organisations that have committed themselves to making this work in practice. I shall not tire the Folketing of repeating my answer to the question and the many data that were highlighted in terms of how this works in practice, how many people already enjoy it, how many people are already in the situation that they have had the opportunity to be exempted. It has been reviewed once, and I think it stands well for itself. I just have to deal briefly with two issues in connection with today's debate. I am one of the many members of parliament who are puzzled by the fact that we are raising a question about digitisation and problematizing the fact that, in the decisions taken in recent years, it is a question of making the use of these solutions compulsory, and then not at all on the part of the Danish People's Party that the majority of the decisions have been supported by oneself, that is to say one has voted in favour of the resolutions which one is proposing today to criticise even in very harsh terms. The second is the economic side of the matter; that is what I am working with every day. I think it's important. The resolution criticized here, i.e. compulsory digital mail, provides us with 1 billion. kr. in the public purses, and that is money we spend on welfare. I understand that the motion for a resolution tabled and the whole debate conducted by the Danish People's Party want to reverse the decision to slow down, postpone and put a stop to it, and then there is a shortfall of 1 billion. kr. in the public purses. I have worked hard on this issue of the 2015 Finance Act and I have nowhere, under any circumstances, seen the Danish People's Party say where to fund the missing billions for welfare, i.e. alternatively. It may of course be I who have not been aware of where it has been put forward. I think it is now the case in this area, as it does in a very, very large number of areas, that of course you have not thought about that side of the matter, i.e. how the money you do not want to raise in this way should be raised in an alternative way. It's just that the money's gonna come on its own. That is not the case. If you make the decision of the Danish People's Party today, there is a shortfall of 1 billion. kr., and that means that the billion kroner is affected in relation to central welfare areas in the municipalities, regions and the state, and of course they also have to be part of a debate like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145839	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145843	Perhaps one should recognise that this is an important debate, rather than neglecting that this is incredibly important for many people in Danish society. I would like to hear the Minister for Finance in relation to what happens if you do not discover a digital letter in your mailbox. Can this result in sanctions or consequences for the citizen who has not seen this letter? Could it be that suddenly you can't get your help or get your funds into the account? Or what may be the consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145922	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121145923	It works exactly as if you're missing a physical letter or if a physical letter doesn't get there. And I must break down and confess openly now that we have included a number of personal experiences, I think all the rapporteurs' mothers have been part of the debate today; unfortunately, I have not even my mother anymore that it is part of my own personal life that I have overlooked or have not received by mistake or have come to misplace paper requests from the public sector. It has had various annoying consequences in my own private life, and it will be the same with the digital, no different in any way. So I would just like to say, since it is a member of the Danish People's Party who is taking the floor on the money side: could we not get a little closer now that we have the opportunity? It is the Danish People's Party that has raised the debate. So, where is the billion kroner currently spent on care for the elderly in hospitals to help the weakest, and which is obtained this way, in the calculation of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150022	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150025	After all, it is the Minister for Finance who stands on the floor and has to answer questions. Compared with the billions, among other things. The Elders case has also been out to say that it is too high shot, so let's see if it even holds true. I just need to know if the Minister of Finance can guarantee that this will not go beyond the bourgeois service. Mette Bock, of the Liberal Alliance, has just mentioned some of this in her rapporteur's speech. I would like to hear from the Minister for Finance whether he sees any challenges in relation to this at all. Does the Minister for Finance not see any challenge to this in relation to the small villages that are shutting down the bourgeois service and where people are going to the larger cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150112	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150113	Citizen-centred services are bound to be improved by simply getting closer to the citizens. After all, there are many things you can do from your living room, where you had to get down to a municipal office before, take a number and sit down and wait for it to be done by personal service. This is a tremendous step forward, not least for many elderly people, who may find it difficult to make the journey in question. Then there is the matter of the money: I think it is important, and if the Danish People's Party believes that the billions of kroner cannot be raised on this, with which we are budgeting, where is it that it has been indicated that the money will otherwise be raised? Nowhere as far as I can tell. The Danish People's Party also bases itself on the financial bill that has been put forward, that this money can be obtained and that it must be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150159	Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150202	Thank you. I would actually like to make a few comments and ask some questions about the request for exemption from digital mail for citizens that you can go in and find on the Internet. It says, of course, that if one has been exempted once, after two years one must request a renewal of one's exemption. Does the Minister of Finance really think that is fair? Would it not be best if one has been exempted, then one is exempt and then if one finds out at some point that one actually can, one can join? That was one part of the question. The second part actually concerns the reverse. If there is now a citizen who has signed up for digital mail, but at some point in life for one reason or another I could e.g. mention that you can actually feel that you are being demented just suddenly saying that you can no longer, or the relatives estimate that it is probably not optimal, how do you report from again? The last part relates to the fact that I can see that there are many opportunities here for exemption, but there is in fact not one for the case that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. It may be that you have a computer in your home, and then you can't write any of it there, but you just don't think you're able to act digitally in relation to all the public communications, and what should you do because you sign under criminal liability etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150317	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150319	In the last case, you're cognitively limited to operating these possibilities, even if you have a computer, and then there's an exception. Do I think it's fair that it's temporary? Yes, I think so, and it has also been adopted by a large majority in the Folketing. Can you be exempted later if you have not become one in the first place? Yes, you can, it's very clear. Then there's the money thing. In other words, there is now another rapporteur from the Danish People's Party who is taking the floor and has himself raised a question debate today on an important and interesting debate which we have all followed and participated in so I think it must be important that we also have all the aspects relating to this matter properly clarified. That's one billion. kr. It is important, and where is it in the economic policy of the Danish People's Party, in the proposals made in the Danish People's Party's Finance Bill, to find the billion kroner which it is apparently not or should be obtained from this initiative, but which is committed to in municipalities, regions and states?
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150413	I think it is a pity that the Minister for Finance spends so long of his reply time actually asking questions to the Danish People's Party when we finally have the opportunity to ask questions to the Minister for Finance and hopefully get some answers. Well, the minister just says to me: it's possible. Well, I'd like to know how it's possible if you say at some point in your life: Now I can't handle this anymore, now I actually want to get off the digital mail. How is this supposed to happen? Where is it? Where is it that one has been informed about it? That was one part of it. The second is that it may well be that there are these six-seven proposals that you can mark out if you can't, but if you have a different reason, how does it work for a citizen? I think it would be more positive if the Minister of Finance were to spend time answering such things rather than asking questions the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150507	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150508	After all, I did reply to the question asked, and I understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks it really a pity to have to answer how the positions you have on a specific question affect financially. Because it seems to be a general problem to make a large number of proposals, to have a large number of opinions and statements that are not taken into account in any form of economic consequence. So we are talking here about a bill in the billions, and it is not money that is spent on anything; it is money that is spent on welfare. It has been agreed with municipalities and regions that we are implementing this decision. These are resources available in municipalities and regions according to this decision, and it is resources that are lacking in municipalities and regions if we change this decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150548	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150554	Well, it may be a little difficult, I think, to go into this debate about this billion dollars, because I don't think it's quite right, and I'm supposed to say that as a non-financial minister, the Minister for Finance has checked it out. Now it has been mentioned repeatedly that one can only be exempted. Well, if a lot of people get off the hook, where's that billion dollars? What we really want to do with this is do it voluntarily, so it's not like we're saying it's all burning together. The minister also used the expression that we want to put a stop to this. No, we won't. We just want to do it voluntarily. That is what this debate is about. We just want to do it voluntarily. Imagine if a whole lot of people went up on community service, and I think it does, in any case, do the finance minister's math. That is also why I said in my rapporteur's speech that I believe that in a few years' time the State auditors will go into another scandal in the public sector and say: it just did not work; a whole lot was thought to be done, but it just did not work. But we'll see about that. The next is to the Minister for Finance, who also commented on the speeches of some of the other rapporteurs. There are a lot of people who have expressed concern and I would like to know how the Minister of Finance feels about this, since he is so sure that this is just going. However, there were rapporteurs other than the Danish People's Party rapporteur and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who expressed great concern as to whether to follow it. I can only hope that you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150716	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150718	You follow it to the highest degree. This is true of the government; it is true of the Folketing; it is true of KL; it is true of the Danish Regions; and it is very much the case of the interest organisations involved in it. There is a lot of work going on there and there are many people who are involved in it. I fully understand the rapporteurs who have expressed an interest in following it to the end, but we also have the situation in the Danish Parliament today that a very, very broad majority without the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten wants to implement these decisions for the benefit of very many citizens and for the benefit of the public economy, whereby an extra billion kroner can be spent on welfare. If the Danish People's Party takes the view that the money does not come into the box, why is it that the gap that arises has not been financed by other means? This is just one of an incredibly many examples of the fact that what you say at a level is not related to what you propose financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150808	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150809	[Sound emission]... and the Minister will have to do so. If a lot of people choose not to do this, where is the minister's money? Let us take the thought situation that half of the country's citizens opt out of this and still have to have mail in the ordinary way, where will the billions of dollars go? The Minister is not concerned about that. At the same time, it is always said that it is voluntary. You can just go up and sign up instead of, as we want, signing up. Well, that's what this is all about. It is not a question of slowing it down. I haven't said I have anything against this digitisation, not at all. A lot of people are enjoying it. We just want the other way around. We do not really know at this stage how many people are opting out. What if that billions of dollars for the so-called welfare, which the Minister has mentioned many times in this debate, crumbles? My view is that there are a great many other places that the government is unfortunately spending money on at the moment, for example. a disproportionate flow of refugees coming to Denmark. We are talking about welfare, welfare and welfare, yes, but answer my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150909	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121150911	It's super simple. We know what happened. I myself mentioned the figures in my answer to the question, and it is therefore free from the memory of my speech paper 479,000 Danes corresponding to approx. Ten per cent who have reported from, which is slightly below the estimates we have made from the outset. As something like this works in practice, it is based on an understanding with municipalities and regions about how this is expected to work when it is rolled out, and there is an economy in it. That is the basis on which agreements are made and the agreements, the legislation and the decisions that have been taken are not covered by the money. This is how it works, and the Danish People's Party knows this very well after 10 years, when they had the pleasure of participating in such decisions. Therefore, it is just not possible to remove the basis for something that has to generate some revenue without pointing out where else the money should be found unless one wants to stand by that it goes beyond welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151004	No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 25 November 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151025	The debate is open. Sir. Finn Thranum as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151044	Thank you, sir. President. The Minister for Health and Prevention sits there and makes and recommends the bill for the benevolent treatment of the High Things. It is not difficult, partly because this proposal is made in agreement with all parties in the Folketing, so this is a really positive matter, partly because the bill helps to ensure that all citizens receive the necessary and desired help when life is squeezed out of failure from vital functions such as: breathing. All citizens must have the greatest possible influence on their own lives. That is an important liberal principle. Fortunately, most regions have made themselves felt in relation to aid schemes for citizens who, due to reduced or terminated lung function, need respiratory support • a breathing supporter. In order to preserve the free choice and ensure the maximum impact on your own life, the system has in many places had the practice that the individual helper in a helper scheme can handle both the respirator treatment under the Health Act and the personal help and/or care under the Service Act. However, this has meant that the region and the municipality have had to coordinate their efforts. The regional and municipal councils have thus divided the costs into one aspect or another, and the citizen has been given considerable freedom of choice in the performance of the employer's task. Fortunately, most regions and municipalities have been able to find this out, and I note that the comments on the draft law show that regions and municipalities that already have well-functioning cooperation can easily maintain their existing approach within the framework of the new provisions of the law. I'm glad. Unfortunately, there have also been several current examples of the lack of cooperation between regions and municipalities. Here the citizen has only had the choice between having two help teams in his home at the same time or giving up the right to be an employer for the help team. In other cases, the disagreement over the distribution of payments between the region and the municipality has postponed the implementation of the respirator treatment at a time when the citizen's breathing has been in the strained transition from the self-help of the citizen to the need for respirator assistance. The loser in this game has been the citizen, the citizen's health and the free choice. This is totally unacceptable. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous Parliament seems to support the draft law, which benefits to a great extent those citizens who are burdened with the inability to breathe themselves in whole or in part because of illness. There have been several consultations on the subject and the committees have received a number of deputies, all of whom have pointed to the untenable situation. The result of this work today is that it has been shown that there have been no solutions other than legislation to preserve free choice and to ensure that aid is put into effect without economic cash-flowing between the region and the municipality. This is of great benefit to the citizen. The Left therefore supports the citizen and thus the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151423	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so that is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151439	Thank you. This is a very good and sensible change of law, and it is a change of law that does not deserve to wait any longer after all eight parties here in the Danish Parliament last December agreed that some improvements would be made for citizens who need respiratory helpers but also need other help, according to the Services Act. I know one of these citizens, one of the hundreds of citizens who in everyday life need this aid scheme. He needs help with his breathing, and he also needs other help as a result of severe illness. We Social Democrats think this is a very good legislative proposal because it ensures greater ease and greater participation. All in all, we are helping to ensure a higher quality of those arrangements. It is improvements for users who have to choose an employer, i.e. the person or persons under whom their helpers are to be organized, but it is also intended to help the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions, so that they have a better basis for managing the joint aid schemes that are included in both the Services Act and the Health Act. The amendments are intended to come into force from 1 July next year. We Social Democrats expect a lot of these changes and hope for positive improvements, and we will, of course, follow this area. That is why I am very pleased that the draft law has introduced an evaluation two years after the entry into force, so that we can also follow up on any things that are not entirely in place or do something that can ensure further improvements through adjustments. The Socialists support this bill, and I should like to welcome my colleague from the Radical Left and say that the same points of view apply to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151704	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121151711	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about ensuring that the citizen has as much influence as possible in his own life and, at the same time, receives high-quality treatment. It is a draft law that has been in the pipeline for a long time and is a broad political agreement in which all parties are involved. Against this background, a number of amendments are proposed to the Health Act, the aim of which is to ensure that the citizen has the greatest possible influence on the organisation of aid schemes and, at the same time, high quality of treatment and to simplify the basis for the administration of aid schemes. It is in order to ensure that the citizen is given considerable freedom of choice in the performance of the employer's task of helping schemes and that the citizen is not at risk of having two different help teams at home at the same time. This is proposed, among other things. to give the citizen the right to have the same association or private company, which is the employer of the helper who provides assistance to the citizen in accordance with Article 95 or 96 of the Services Act, the employer of the helper who is to carry out tasks related to the respiratory treatment of the person concerned. In addition, the regional councils and the administration of the joint schemes by local authorities must be simplified and reduced overall. The agreement was concluded on the basis of a report by a working group set up by the then Minister for Social Affairs and Integration and the Minister for Health and Prevention at the beginning of 2012. In October 2013, the Working Group finalised a report describing models for the future organisation of joint assistance for citizens with chronic respiratory insufficiency. Before the then minister set up this working group, we in the Danish People's Party had called for more consultations on the challenges in this area. In the Danish People's Party, we have worked hard to improve the BPA scheme and have also convened former ministers, both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Health, in several consultations precisely to find some good solutions to simplify the scheme. In the committee we received a lot of requests that as a life support user you could not use the same helper, but often had to have two helpers in connection with respiration, as it belongs to the Health Act, and one who took care of the BPA scheme in the Service Act. There has been a long-term work going on, and that is the result of it. It is therefore important that we had ministers who at that time chose to listen. This is an area we in the Danish People's Party will follow closely. Finally, I would also like some answers to some questions about the authority that the Minister should be given. What does it contain? It may be that the Minister for Health will tell us a little about it when he is on the platform, because we expect, of course, as a party to the agreement, to be involved in it along the way and subsequently to be called to meetings if there are any challenges to the distribution of expenditure between regions and municipalities. So we look forward to hearing more about this when the Minister for Health has discussed it with the Minister for Social Affairs. In addition, I have a question after I received an email yesterday. I'd like to read it to the Minister for Health just to get an answer to that: Hello, Karina. I have spoken to the East Breathing Centre, as a number of citizens are dissatisfied with the companies that have won the invitation to tender. My question was whether a citizen could terminate the scheme with the selected companies and take a company they chose, possibly from 1 February 2015. They cannot respond to this as life support schemes are to be outsourced in the first quarter of 2015. Isn't that against the bill? Why are citizens not allowed to choose a company in which they have confidence? Isn't that against the intentions of the BPA scheme? It may be that the Minister will reply to that when the Minister comes to the floor. Then there is another question about the hearings. It is, of course, the case that there has been a question of clarifying the health and safety regulations. We got this consultation answer, where it is described that under the Working Conditions Act the employer, i.e. the private company, has a duty to ensure that the working environment is fully safe from health and safety. This supervisory obligation also applies when the work is carried out in private homes by helpers to citizens in respiratory treatment. The current draft law, L 57, divides this responsibility into three actors, the private company, the citizen and the respiratory centre. The responsibility for the working environment thus risks falling between several chairs. That, of course, is something we need to be aware of and to which I would also like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152232	Thank you. I must point out that I am speaking on behalf of the SF rapporteur. SF supports the proposal to amend the Health Act so that persons with chronic respiratory impairment are entitled to the same association or company to provide the assistance they are to receive and the assistance they need from the Service Act. I and the SF see the proposal as an excellent simplification, which primarily benefits the citizen. Whether the citizen needs help under the Health Act, which is administered by the region, or assistance under the Service Act, which is administered by the municipality, is basically irrelevant to the citizen. What matters to the citizen is that he or she gets the right help in as simple and secure a way as possible. The proposal will give more people with chronic respiratory insufficiency better overall help and the opportunity to be in contact with fewer authorities and helpers, and this is exactly a problem that we have been talking about for so many years. In the consultation round, I have become aware of a serious problem, and I am sure that this will be the case for others too. The Muscle Dwindling Foundation points out. According to the Muscle Disappearance Fund, the bill in practice makes it impossible for citizens with citizen-controlled personal assistance, especially those who receive help under Section 95 of the Service Act, to travel on holiday abroad. We would like this to be followed up in the further work of the committee. Another thing is that a number of professionally competent organizations, such as: The Danish Nursing Council, the Muscle Dwindling Foundation and the FOA are concerned that the helpers have sufficient skills to operate the complex respiratory equipment. Of course, it is essential that the helpers can serve the citizen's treatment equipment, even if the helpers usually do work according to the provisions of the Services Act. We would also like to see this issue followed up in the further work of the committee. Then we would like to remind you that it is essential for the government to help ensure that the pay and employment conditions of aiders receive the satisfactory treatment that we have provided in previous debates. We would also like to be able to follow up on this in the further work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152514	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152523	After all, this bill is about the citizens who need help to breathe with a ventilator, and who also need help to ensure that the respirator works as it should. It is citizens who, because of disability, also often need more help than just help with respiration. It can, for example, be done. be helping to get around, helping to get food or to reach things you can't otherwise reach if you're in a wheelchair, i.e. all sorts of different kinds of practical help. That aid is, of course, a prerequisite for those citizens to be able to live an independent life of education, jobs and leisure, etc. After all, we have a prehistory of this bill, which has also been mentioned by a number of people: the fact that we have seen some rather absurd cases in which citizens who need several different forms of help, that is to say, both help with respiration and help with practical things, received several different help teams on different pay and working conditions. Some had to fire their former helper in order to get respiratory help, and others had to have different teams next to each other. I think everyone can agree very quickly on this at no point, and that is why we are then trying to rectify it and ensure that regions and municipalities can make agreements that ensure that when aid comes from two different authorities, i.e. from both regions and municipalities, it is coordinated, and then it can also be agreed how the costs are to be covered. I share the view of the SF, namely that we need to look at the objection of the Muscle Dwindling Foundation in relation to whether it is still possible to travel on holiday. Of course it has to be. It is very important, and it is also very important for us, that we maintain the principle that, when you have a BPA scheme, that is, when you have a helper scheme, where you yourself are a supervisor or an employer, you also have a high degree of influence on who should be your helper. So those things are also one of the things that we will be working on in committee, but we can support the bill and the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152734	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152741	After all, it is good to be able to be rapporteur on a proposal on which all the parties of the Folketing agree, and that is to ensure that we help some people who are in a position to get a better and more free choice. The fact that there are still some ongoing complications remains, I am counting on us to be able to deal with with the Minister for Health in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152819	Since the Conservative rapporteur, Daniel Rugholm, cannot be present, I have promised him to say the following: this is a very positive proposal, and it is because it helps to provide opportunities and improvements for people who have serious, critical suffering. We are talking about people whose lungs are not functioning enough to maintain normal levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood themselves, and these are even the most serious cases of lung failure where oxygen treatment at home is necessary. This bill will make it possible to organise more flexibly the various aid schemes that citizens have in the home. The draft law also helps to guarantee citizens freedom of choice in the performance of the tasks of the aid scheme, so that they, for example, are able to do so. can avoid having different employees from different helping arrangements at home at the same time. There is no doubt that it will improve these people's everyday lives and provide security about the vital aid schemes that they have at home. Last but not least, it will also simplify the administration of the arrangements. It is entirely in line with our values that we are now improving and simplifying the lives of some people who have enough challenges in their everyday lives. The draft law stems from an agreement which the Conservative People's Party has helped to conclude, and that is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152940	Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121152956	First of all, I would like to thank you for all the comments. As the rapporteurs have said in various ways, we are discussing a bill on citizens who are severely disabled. It is citizens who need help with ordinary functions in everyday life, and at the same time they need treatment that is necessary for them to breathe. In other words, it is about citizens who have to live with helpers on their side a great deal of life. The main intention is to ensure that, as far as possible, citizens can decide on their own everyday lives despite the disability they have, and that is the primary purpose of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the municipalities and regions must have a simpler basis for working together on citizens' aid schemes. It must be possible to coordinate the common aid schemes without, for example, having to do so. Takes a disproportionate amount of time. Of course, it is nice for the municipalities and regions to get the tools, but it is of course most important for the citizens to have as good and well-functioning everyday life as possible their disability despite. Some very specific questions have been raised, which are, after all, best suited for committee consideration. There are, however, some of them which I believe can be answered immediately. For example: The Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Karina Adsbøl, asked how the authorisation provided for in the bill should be used. As the rapporteur also said, this is an authorisation for the allocation of expenditure. After all, we must discuss this with not only the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also with the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions, and they will follow up with an announcement that comes into consultation, so that those parties, parties and others who may be interested in the subject have full access to make their views known. The citizen's approach from which the rapporteur read out, I think the rapporteur should send over to the ministry. Then, of course, we will deal with it. But as it was read out, it immediately sounds as if the correct answer to it is: pr. 1 July 2015. If the bill is adopted as it stands, then there will be a free choice for the citizens there. And, of course, we cannot have organized a process which researches the right of citizens to take advantage of free elections if necessary. Then there were a few references to the issue of pay and employment conditions, tariffs and so on. In other words, one of the reasons why we can deal with this bill today and bring about the progress we are making is that this issue is parked in a different resort from that of the Ministry of Health, which is over with the Minister for Social Affairs, where the tariff issue will be dealt with. However, I should like to thank you for the good comments made by the parties of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121153314	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked to speak further, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141121153332	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 25 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
