ParlaMint-DK_20141111130000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kim Christiansen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the law on the carriage of goods by road). Per Clausen (EL) and Henning Hyllested (EL): Enquiry no. F 8 (which energy scenarios of the Danish Energy Agency will be based on the continued transition to renewable energy and a fossil-free society, and when will the government initiate negotiations on what will happen after 2020, so that decisions are not taken in the coming years that make it more difficult and more expensive, for example. choosing a hydrogen or wind scenario?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Steen Gade (SF), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Trine Mach (SF) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) have informed me that they want to take the query no. F 6 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and Development on the second part of the United Nations Climate Panel's fifth main report on the impact of climate change back. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130059	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party of North Jutland, Daniel Rugholm, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from today, 11 November 2014, when Lene Espersen resigns his mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130126	The committee's recommendation is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 104 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130155	As previously stated in the meeting, Question No 1 is: F 6 taken back by the questioners. It is therefore only necessary to take a position on the promotion of Question No. F 7. Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course. We need to keep the conversations quiet around the Chamber, because now we are going to... I have to ask for a little more quiet in the Chamber! Yeah, you don't want to look gay, but can we get some more quieter in the room?
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130305	The debate has been opened with Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130318	Thank you. Every member of the Folketing can be pleased that there are so many colleagues present for consideration of a bill. L 46 deals with the legal basis for the establishment of the Danish Green Investment Fund, which sounds great. The Green Investment Fund is intended to promote the green transformation of society, as the draft law states. The objective is specifically to support investments by public and private companies, foundations, associations and non-profit housing companies with loans for investments in measures leading to energy savings and better use of our resources. The fund shall be set up with equity capital of up to 200 million. kr. and a State-guaranteed loan framework of 5 billion. We are not talking about pennies on behalf of taxpayers. This equity is built up over a number of years as you invest. The draft law states that the purpose of the fund is to grant loans to projects which would not have been launched without the funding which could help to advance the projects, and that is something that we in the Left bear in mind, to which I shall return. It is proposed in the draft law that loans of up to 60% may be granted. the cost of the project; the rest of the financing must then be provided by the firm, the private organisation or the borrower in general. It should be noted that the Danish Green Investment Fund opens up the possibility of supporting so-called ESCO projects. It should be a model according to which the organisation, the private, the public or any other person wishing to make an energy efficiency improvement, which provides an economic saving over a number of years, can repay the cost of his project. The Danish Green Investment Fund is placed as an independent entity under the Ministry of Business and Growth, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors refers to the Minister. It is also the Minister who appoints the chairman of the board and the board itself, who, according to the bill, has six members. My party, the Left, is in favour of investments in green conversion and initiatives that lead to a more appropriate use of our resources and have the potential to create jobs, but here too, agreement with the bill stops. If you read through the consultation answers, you can see that Danish Industry estimates that the cost per year. This is why, as rapporteur for the Left, I must ask myself: is this a real proposal that will make a difference to the environment and the green transition, or is it a parade proposal based on the terms of the Enhedslisten that we are using taxpayers' hard-earned money to finance projects that are not worthwhile in reality? What is written in the bill is that when I go down to the bank and get a no to my project, the Danish taxpayers should instead help to finance it for a market overpriced. It is a waste of taxpayers' money and, of course, the Left cannot support it. If the government and the Enhedslisten and the SF as support parties really wanted to make a difference with the Danish taxpayers' money, one could buy environmental filters and put them on chimneys in Eastern Europe; that would provide a sensible environmental improvement versus the way we use our green investment fund today. The position of the Left is that this is a parade proposal, it is a waste of taxpayers' money, it is a blue light that will not make a real difference, it is symbol and signal policy and it costs too much. That will be a clear no thank you from here and I look forward to the debate with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130723	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111130733	Thank you. I can guarantee that I will not get myself swung up in the same tone as the previous rapporteur did. With this bill we create the Danish Green Investment Fund, which will help to invest targetedly in the green transformation of Denmark. The Fund must help to realise energy projects that would otherwise not be implemented. And the bill is then part of the agreement on a greener Denmark that was concluded between the government, SF and Enhedslisten in June 2014. The Socialists welcome the initiative because it puts Denmark at the forefront. The green transition is absolutely essential for us to be able to create a sustainable society, but it also requires many large and also slightly smaller investments. And that's why we set up this fund with an equity of up to 200 million. kr. and a State-guaranteed loan framework of up to 5 billion. kr. During the first three years, the fund will receive 80 million. kr. in equity and 2 billion. kr. in a State-guaranteed loan framework. With these funds, the Investment Fund can then invest in energy savings in companies' production equipment and building stock and in renewable energy installations and in greater resource efficiency in companies. It is important to stress that the fund's economy must rest in itself and that the interest on its loans must be fixed in accordance with the EU's State aid rules. And, of course, the fund board's decisions on lending are final and cannot be changed by the Minister. It is therefore a sound arm's-length arm's-length principle between the Fund and the Minister. How is the fund managed? We create an independent board with up to 6 members appointed by the Minister for Business and Growth. The Board of Directors shall have knowledge of both the credit and investment sectors and of the energy and resource sectors. How much can the Fund lend for each project? The fund's financing share for each project may not exceed 60%. The remaining financing in excess of 60%. must then be provided by the entity itself in the form of equity or other private financing, for example. from banks or other financial institutions. What is the Fund's relationship with other financial institutions? It is important to stress that the Fund is not seeking to outlaw or create unequal competition in relation to other sources of funding. It is in fact the case that the payment for similar or subordinated loans must correspond to the risk inherent in the individual projects. The Fund shall contribute to the financing of projects which would otherwise have difficulty in obtaining funding or which are outside the focus of typical sources of funding. And the co-financing from the Fund will then allow a comprehensive financing solution for each project, where other funding will be included. The Fund shall also provide subordinated loans and loans with a slightly longer maturity than would have been the case without the State-guaranteed loan framework. And so the aim will not be to outsource existing sources of funding, but to provide financing for projects which would otherwise not have been launched or which could now be substantially accelerated as a result of the funding from the Fund. Finally, I would like to say that with the creation of the Danish Green Investment Fund, we are allowing companies, foundations, associations, general housing organisations, etc. will be able to finance green investments which are sensible but for which funding has so far been difficult to find. That is why, of course, the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131109	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that the initiatives taken under the Danish Green Investment Fund will be up to 30 times more expensive than the government's other climate initiatives. At the same time, I would ask the rapporteur to consider whether this would not be more sensible, for example. to extend the housing job scheme, which is a success that creates 5,000 jobs • jobs that are now in danger of falling away, in that the scheme will not be extended. I find it difficult to see the good social democratic reasoning in throwing expensive money after few jobs and a small environmental difference instead of allowing a sensible regime to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131146	As a parliamentarian, you should try to stay too good to blow your numbers up too much, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Now I know that it is Danish Construction that has been out to claim that this housing job scheme provides 5,000 more jobs. After all, the calculations made by the Treasury show that, with the activity generated by the housing job scheme, it is falling over the years here, it is less than 1,000 people who get to work with it; and it is worth noting some expensive jobs. It is, of course, the case that it is taxpayers who finance that people can receive subsidies for the housing job scheme. The government has estimated that we are now on the side of the crisis where there is no longer any basis for maintaining the crisis instrument that the housing job scheme has been and that it is therefore sensible and also financially responsible to say that the housing job scheme has the natural expiry date that we have previously set. In relation to what the cost would be in relation to other CO2 emissions, the rapporteur himself must check that by asking questions during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131259	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131302	I really think it is a pity that the Socialist rapporteur and Member of Parliament are resorting to personal attacks on a really quite peaceful issue. What I am saying is that a CO2 under the Danish Green Investment Fund, but out in the market costs between 225 and just over 1,000 DKK. I think that is a boring way of spending the Danish taxpayers' money. But I also understand that the rapporteur is in a difficult situation. This is, of course, a proposal designed as a gift for the SF and the Enhedslisten, and that is why the rapporteur obviously has to stand up for the proposal. However, the rapporteur could not accept that it is a very high price per person. tonnes CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131340	I think it is quite reasonable to have this green investment fund, partly because it puts turbo on the green conversion in, among other things. Danish companies, partly because the increase hopefully can also create some jobs. So all in all, in the current situation and in the years to come, I think it is quite reasonable that we should put turbo on the green switch.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131359	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131407	The bill we are discussing here is a bill that has come after the agreement on a greener Denmark that the government has concluded earlier this year with SF and Enhedslisten. As other rapporteurs have already said, the aim of the proposal is to grant loans for investments promoting a green conversion in Denmark. It is investment in energy saving, renewable energy installations and it is for investment in better use of energy resources. All in all, that sounds very reasonable, and in the Danish People's Party we are also in favour of the fact that we are focusing on a continuous approach to the fact that investing in green conversion is in fact common sense, at least as long as it is not something that is happening with an excessively artificial economic stimulus. That's what we're talking about. has seen with regard to the exodus of the PRS tax and other hardships, such as: As a result, Danish competitiveness is just as quietly slipping away because production in Denmark is becoming more expensive. In many ways, the proposal here is sensible enough, if you are in mind that you want this green transition, and that is what we want, of course. However, I think there are a number of very fundamental concerns about this proposal. I do not want to go into the higher pitch as the rapporteur of the Left, but we do share the concerns of the Left, for example, about the types of projects for which loans could be obtained, because it is clearly stated in the draft law that it should be projects that would not have been launched without this funding, or projects that will be substantially advanced as a result of this cofinancing. It is, of course, the same as saying that it is for projects that would not get uphill if you went into the bank or credit business of your company or organisation or elsewhere and said that you would like to invest in this change in order, for example, to reduce your energy costs. This also means that there is a greater risk, and I have also noticed that the draft law says that there is a risk that there may be as much as 30 years' duration. What we have typically seen elsewhere where calculations have been made is that you may be able to get your invested capital earned over a much shorter period than 30 years. We think it may be on the long side, and we also think it is worrying that we are proposing that 60% as a whole. of the amount can be financed through the Danish Green Investment Fund. This is a fairly large percentage, we think in the Danish People's Party. We are also concerned about whether this is really a new way of running banks in Denmark, because it is the case that everything else is just competing to borrow money, and if money can be borrowed here for some projects which, because of their high risk profile, would otherwise be quite expensive to get through with private banks or credit companies, it is a new way of running banks in connection with this bill. This is, of course, taxpayers' money, and this is not least a large state guarantee linked to these investments. We do not wish to deny that we can support the proposal, but it must therefore depend on whether there will be some changes to some of the things I have talked about. I still think it's too big to get up to 60%. I think that this is a long repayment period of up to 30 years. So I think that if the government wants a broad settlement on this, where other parties are to be involved, then it is necessary to make those elements significantly better. Otherwise, we cannot support the bill. But we are always open to negotiation. We will also be on this issue and we look forward to the committee's further consideration of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131816	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131824	Thank you. This bill establishes the Danish Green Investment Fund. The purpose of the fund is to co-finance investments supporting the green conversion. This is done by providing loans for investments in resource efficiency and energy savings. The Fund shall grant loans on fair terms and over time rest in itself. There are now green projects that are not being implemented, not least because of the lack of investment. It is our expectation, then, that the fund can help to close a gap in the capital market for green projects and thus contribute to the objective of a green transition, for which there is, of course, a broad majority in the Folketing, and that is also a good thing. Overall, Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111131929	Thank you. SF supports the bill. As others have said, this is part of an agreement between the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten in connection with the growth agreement. That's the deal that's being implemented with this bill. I would like to say to the discussion that we have had most of the time, it has been said, that the fund's resources are going to save energy, that this is one of the places where we actually lack effort. It's one of the places where we're behind, you might say, in Denmark. They can also go to renewable energy and then they can go to resource efficiency. It's also a place where we need to get it going. So if we now look at the areas mentioned here, we can see that there are obvious areas where we need to get it going. These are also areas which are characterised by the fact that there are actually people who have initiatives but who may find it difficult to borrow. There may be many reasons why you have trouble with this. All new promoters in these years find it difficult to obtain loans, but those who then have green initiatives or perhaps are a little innovative or just doing so in a slightly different way may have even more difficulty in doing so. I hope that the fund here can develop into such a fund that can do so, with the appropriations we have set aside: in 2014 15 million. DKK 25 million kr. in 2015 and 40 million; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). I would then like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that it was an interesting announcement that came, namely that it is both symbolic policy and symbolic policy, which means that it is such a thing without content and that it is furiously expensive for taxpayers. But if it is symbolic policy, it cannot be furiously expensive for taxpayers, and if it is furiously expensive for taxpayers, it is hardly symbolic policy. So it doesn't add up. The thing is, this construction has to rest in itself. It is not a construction that does anything but make funds available, and the expectation is that the whole structure is made so that it must rest in itself. And that is because the initiatives for which loans are to be given must have a place that is easier to get to and get loans than on the other capital market as it stands today. But it is not the case that the money should not be paid back again. So with those comments, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111132234	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111132241	I could understand that, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's statement that on behalf of Enhedslisten I should be happy today and so am I, because I see this bill as an expression of the fact that we are some who are trying to take on the responsibilities that we have towards future generations. A few years ago it was such a good bourgeois point that you should not leave the bill in the nursery. I think that is very true, but it is not least true when it comes to the environmental bill. It can, of course, be quite much harder to correct than a bill which is purely economic. That is why, after a few hundred years of very heavy resource consumption, we are facing a very high level of pollution, creating a future in which we are able to reduce our resource consumption and reduce our pollution, while creating jobs and creating opportunities for development, including for our descendants. That is the challenge that we face and which we are then trying to raise through a large number of concrete initiatives. This is then one of them, and the important thing here is to say that we believe that, in addition to the market forces which are oriented towards making as much money as possible, something else, more and better, is needed, namely a loan mechanism which lends money, not for the purpose of costing the state money, but for the purpose of investing in projects which are actually socio-economic and otherwise economically viable, in order that they can be implemented. It is about promoting the green transformation of society in terms of energy savings and renewable energy installations. Then it is also about what is called greater use of resources and, of course, among other things. It is about speeding up a development that will enable us to get what we call a circular economy with a little technical expression, that is to say to make sure that what we thought was waste in the past is a new resource and that we produce in such a way that we make sure that what we produce can be recycled without wasted resources and without constantly using new resources. Securing investment in this requires, in some cases, that we go in with direct aid schemes. In a couple of cases, Enhedslisten has established this with the current government, and then it is about creating some opportunities for different players in this area, whether they are private companies, associations, social housing organisations, etc., to get started here. The purpose of the fund is to ensure that initiatives which would otherwise not be taken are taken if they have an environmentally sound effect and if they are, moreover, considered to be economically linked. That is what the Left and perhaps also the Danish People's Party are opposed to. You say that there should not be a single initiative which cannot be financed by the ordinary financial institutions. I would just like to say that then I think there are a lot of good and sensible projects that will suffer damage, and we are trying to rectify that here. In some cases these are projects in which it is said that it will come sometime. The energy saving projects that can be implemented by this fund next year and next year will probably be carried out in 10, 15, 20 years' time instead, and then it will be just as good and perhaps even a little cheaper. Then you just have to say that if you take the reports that the UN has just published on climate change challenges, just a little seriously, you are well aware that decisions and investments must be made now and for the next 5, 10 years, if we are to have a small opportunity to limit the threatening climate change, about which, for many years, we said a little jokingly that they would probably only benefit Denmark. I think there are a lot of people in Vendsyssel who, in the last month, have revised the perception that climate change is just a joy and benefit to the Danes. So this is about taking due care, deciding that we take responsibility also for the conditions of life that future generations, our own children and grandchildren will have and are committed to supporting that development. That is what this fund is about, and I am glad that it has been possible to reach an agreement with the government on this. Fortunately, this is one of several examples of the fact that there is still a slight difference between what is called right and left in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111132735	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111132744	In the absence of our rapporteur, I can tell you that the Liberal Alliance does not consider it appropriate to extend the palette of special arrangements for the green conversion. In fact, it can be immensely artificial to define something as green or black. The production of a wind turbine is indeed very black, not to mention batteries for an electric car. However, regardless of how the so-called green sector is defined, I do not believe that any sector or industry that has more public subsidies and aid measures than the so-called green sector can be found. We have no doubt for a second that these are well-intentioned schemes, and we can also understand the wisdom of increasing energy saving and so on, but I must also promise that there are many subsidies for energy saving. Public engagement can be said to stop at some point if we are not to exacerbate the distortions in the overall economy. We know that if better state-aided conditions are given to others, productivity will suffer. After all, productivity in the green sector is clearly lower than in the other sector, and that is because of less competitive pressure. That is, of course, the logic. We would much rather see all companies getting better conditions, not as indirect aid, as is the case here, but through lower taxes and charges. We're afraid that with the bill here we won't get the most cost-effective CO2 It'll probably currently be buying a pile of CO2 They cost a flat fifty. Then CO 2 Danish Industry has calculated that we have already heard this afternoon that the reduction will correspond to staggering DKK 30,000. in the marketplace, and that is in relation to the flat fifty that I mentioned before, if all 5 billion. kr. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Although there may of course be some positive side effects of this fund, it is quite expensive, not least in the light of the other subsidies in the form of PSOs, where some technologies have disproportionate conditions, especially if they can be defined as green, and these good conditions are not, as we know, free of charge, either for the citizens or for the economy as a whole. That is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133037	The Conservative People's Party is sceptical about the proposal. It is not an effective use of the resources that should be used for investment in healthy, viable businesses. We are not against investing in green technology and green businesses as a starting point. It has been a growth industry for Danish society, created many jobs, generated a lot of innovation and knowledge and has spread like rings in the water. So the green industry benefits Danish society. However, when one makes such a green investment fund as a gift to the SF and Enhedslisten and also in the comments to the proposal writes, and I quote, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also done so in the past, that the fund must grant loans for projects that would not have been launched without the funding that would not have been launched without the funding. It does not seem very market economy, and it certainly does not seem like a healthy business either for those who set up the projects or for those who spit money in the projects. That is why we also need to have a dialogue with the government during the committee procedure, in the form of questions where, firstly, we will have a look at what kind of projects we intend to invest in and what it generates to know and innovation, and secondly, we will have a look at whether we will have a guarantee that there will be no distortion of competition if we resolve too much. Because there is a market where you have to meet if you have some sensible projects. Then it may be that there is a capital fund that invests in one; it may be that it is a bank, a mortgage institution; it may even be Danish Growth Capital, which belongs to the Ministry of Business and Growth; it may be the Growth Fund; it may be in all sorts of other forums. I am not sure that the creation of a new structure will benefit investment in companies, nor in the green industry, because they can easily be affected by the existing fora, the existing construction. So we are sceptical about the proposal not so for ideological reasons, because we want to invest in green businesses and also think it is okay that the state goes along with some constructions with an umbrella company, but because it is quite explicit that you want to support projects that would otherwise not have happened. That's where I think you're out on very thin ice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133311	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133323	I should like to thank all the parties that have indicated today that they will vote in favour of the proposal. I shall come back to some of the arguments here. I have noticed that there are slightly different approaches and different concerns on the right side of the House as to whether or not you want to support the proposal. I believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party had a number of considerations and also made himself constructively available for us to discuss the proposal further in committee, and I would very much like to contribute to that without promising that we should change a lot. But common to many of the bourgeois parties, as I think the Conservative rapporteur said at the end, has been that the flaw in the construction is that you go in and support projects that would otherwise not happen and that you can just see that that is the irresponsible thing in it. Perhaps I would take a different positive approach if I were conservative about this and look at it in a different way. One of the greatest challenges we have had over the past many years has been precisely to provide enough risk capital. This has, of course, been the hardest thing to get a large number of companies to grow, because there has been a shortage of risk capital. And I really just want to see this as a place where you go in and provide risk capital. Is that so targeted green investment? That is the purpose of the fund. But all other things being equal, it is something that helps in helping to unblock the credit situation out there. I also have to say to the strange calculation that Danish Industry has made, which assumes that I will lose all the money if it is to go up, that I am not going to do that as a starting point. I'm actually going to have this fund resting in itself. So you'd better do the math that it's going to be totally free to actually achieve this goal that's being set up. That would be the right way to calculate rather than the very strange way that Danish Industry has set things up, and I do not quite understand that. For example, the Danish Industry and others, and now I have noticed that there are a number of business organisations that actually respond very positively to the proposal here • have been asked to discuss what it really is that you can support in relation to such a fund here. This could be energy saving, i.e. investment leading to lower consumption of electricity, gas and fuel in the production plant of companies. This must be said to be very good for companies. These are renewable energy plants, for example. wind turbines, solar cells and thermal plants have something that we already have great pleasure and benefit from in order to achieve our goals. It is more resource efficiency, investment in more efficient use of materials and raw materials in production, increased recycling and better waste management. It is a large number of core tasks in Danish companies that are being played with today and that it is difficult to find funding for today. That is why there are quite a few companies, private ones, who have had to sign up positively to the fact that a new opportunity is now being opened to finance some of the things that have been going on and sought out for a long time. So I would actually look at it much more positively, if I were over from the right, and then do not be mad at who made the deal, because there is no reason for that, because you have every opportunity to simply sign that it is actually an excellent and good idea that has been opened up to here. Then I'm just gonna follow up on the fact that I think it was sir. Steen Gades and Mr. Per Clausen's fine speech, say that this is, after all, a place where we actually go hand in hand, that is to say, the public and the market, and ensure that there is a conscious development, but a conscious development which also has a political purpose, namely to bring about just a little better balance in relation to some of the major climate challenges we face. Despite the fact that one jamming commode after another has stood and regretted that we had to invest in the green area, I think the Conservative rapporteur has also stressed that it is one of the places where Denmark is earning the most money at the moment, because, with the help of some forward-looking people, we made sure that we invested in isolating our houses, ensuring efficient energy supply and ensuring that we all got our energy distribution in order. That meant, and it means today, that we are out in the world selling our products because we have that progress. That is why taking political initiative and the fact that we can work with business is actually a very good thing, and that is why this fund is also a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133833	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133849	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111133912	Thank you for that, President. L 11 is the draft law amending CO2 The aim of the bill is to implement the amendments to Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading implemented by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. It is a change for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading that must meet the fact that by 2020 we will be able to implement an international agreement on common measures for emissions from international aviation. The Left supports the proposed bill and the amendments proposed by the Ministry, according to the comments attached to the hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134008	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur. It's gonna be quick today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134019	Thank you. As the rapporteur has already explained, this is, after all, an implementation of an EU regulation which is already in force, but which has the clear objective of paving the way for us to implement by 2020 an international global agreement that ensures that the aviation traffic that we all use to a greater or lesser extent is included in a quota trading system, so that we also ensure that the transport sector is reduced as much as possible. It is clear that there has been some criticism of the behaviour of the European Union, where we have said that we should be included in the quota sector when flying, and there has been criticism from other countries that they thought it was strict that we imposed a tax or part of the quota system on these flights out and out of the EU and EEA countries. It can be said that we have now chosen to say that we are temporarily abolishing it, then putting pressure on the other countries and saying: if you mean something by your criticism and say that it is because we have to do it globally, then you must also act; then you must also show us that you want to make an agreement with the European Union. In 2016, when this is to be evaluated, one can say that then we have the argument to the others that if they have not rubbed their nails and actually helped to make a global agreement, then we can go back to the system that the European Union has had. I think that is sensible, because I believe that we need to get air traffic into a quota system. I think we need to ensure that air traffic is not something that is exempt from fuel taxes or is out of the quota system or anything else. For the environmental impact of air traffic, we must, of course, get into our system. There has been a lot of talk at international level about wanting to make a global agreement, but now I think we also need some action behind the words, and I think this is an approach on the part of the European Union which, of course, requires the others to reach out too. I also hope, of course, that the Danish side will press in 2016 if nothing has happened in the eyes of the goose. In addition, there are some small changes for some smaller players that are sensible, because there we can help to get some bureaucracy out of the way without having a negative environmental impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134228	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134237	The two previous rapporteurs have already mentioned that this is an EU directive, which is then amended by an amending regulation. It then takes precedence over Danish law, and thus it has already entered into force, although Danish law may say otherwise. So what is proposed with the bill here is to adapt Danish law to the legal state that is already in force. Now it is the case that in the Danish People's Party, unlike a number of other parties here in Parliament, we do not fall on the tail just because there is an EU directive or amending regulation on a bill and vote yes. We don't. In fact, we read what the bill says and decide on it and see whether the material content is good or bad. And then we decide whether we vote yes or no. In this particular case, there are two changes to how EU CO2 is concerned in the first case with flights into and out of the EEA area. almost the same as the EU just plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein to and from a place outside this area must be exempt from the quota system. That is all else just an improvement, and I would like to say straight away that the Danish People's Party has never been particularly enthusiastic about CO2 Basically we see it as a form of tax on production and on economic activity, where companies in EU countries are just being put at a disadvantage in competition, because you have to use these CO2 so everything else is just as much better that some are being exempted for at least a period of time until you find a system that works internationally and globally and thus puts all airlines on an equal footing. It will be a step forward when you reach it. Furthermore, it is proposed that very small operators should also be exempted from the quota system. It's about wanting to debureaucratize. This means that the very smallest companies are exempted from having to have the administrative burden of managing CO2 and we only find that sympathetic to you. So not because this is an amendment regulation from the European Union, but because it has material content that is in order, we in the Danish People's Party can say that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134513	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Andreas Steenberg as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134522	To put it bluntly and to be honest, this bill is a very technical legislative proposal, and it is, of course, primarily a legislative proposal that implements EU legislation in Danish law. The main feature of the draft law, which has also been promoted in the debate so far, is a temporary exemption for air traffic from the requirement for monitoring, reporting and surrendering CO2 allowances. It is a temporary relaxation that has been adopted in the European Union and which must remain there until some regulation of aviation CO2 is adopted at global level. In addition to this, the legislative proposal provides for new rules to be moved to a regulation that the Minister can issue, so that no change of law is made every time this area changes in the EU directives. The Radical Left can support the bill as it stands and hope that we can agree on it in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134632	Thank you. The SF may also support the proposal. I just think I'd like to make a few comments on the history of the past. It was not because it was such an amazing strategy on the part of the European Union that this exception came. It was because in the EU, what I supported at the time, and what the SF supported at the time, thought that when a quota system was also introduced on air traffic, we got air traffic into a CO2 It is so today that air traffic and shipping are the only transport areas that we do not either tax or charge. This is absurd in both areas, but it is quite absurd in the field of air transport. Well, everyone knows that car transport is being taxed in this country, but we're getting on some plane and flying really far away and getting a CO2 so it wasn't a heroic effort that the EU, you might say, had to decide to postpone it. So this postponement, which is, after all, ahead of our discussion here, I was certainly not enthusiastic about, on the contrary. But now we have a postponement, and then I agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that we must make the best of this postponement and focus on the fact that the ICAO is negotiating as strongly as possible on the part of the European Union to get the other countries to agree that air traffic must also contribute to the cost of limiting CO2 Everything else is quite unreasonable. And when we're going to talk big deal in Paris in 2015, we should really like to be ready to take air traffic and also ship traffic, but in this case air traffic. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134848	Thank you. Sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111134856	It is true, as has been said in the debate, that this is an EU regulation which is already in force. And then one can ask oneself the question: what is the point of the Folketing having to go through three readings to see that it has been decided by the European Union? There is also a single element in this bill that will free us from it in the future, for such a little hidden in the text there is a power that in future changes to quota regulation in Denmark will be made by the Minister issuing a decree, and then we will be free to deal with it here in the Folketing. I would like to say that we are opposed to this by the Enhedslisten. One can of course argue that we should not spend time on it, but I think that the processes that exist when decisions are made in the European Union, which automatically apply in Denmark, might need a little visibility. And after all, a treatment like this can lead to that. And that may also mean that we are all faced with what we did or did not do when the EU regulation we are talking about came through the system. In this case, this is indeed a regulation which has been discussed in a relatively thorough manner in several cases in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. You can have the view that this quota system is something that works at all. So far, there is little evidence of this. Nevertheless, we have supported the need for air traffic to be included in this, and we also accepted the fact that this delay was made. It's a little bit like Mr. Kim. Steen Gade said that you have to be very enthusiastic about finding some clever and brilliant tactics or strategy behind this, but that's what happened. And, of course, one can hope that this will lead to an international agreement which will limit the growth of air traffic so that we can resolve some climate and environmental challenges, but I am not optimistic. However, when Enhedslisten votes against this bill, it is basically because if we adopt it here, we have decided that in future, the Minister's announcements will be made, so that it will be completely unclear to the public how EU regulations come through, and we see no reason to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135101	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135108	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is of the opinion that it is important that CO2 We can therefore also endorse the harmonisation that entered into force from 2013 to 2020. With the very technical provisions, we also consider it reasonable that this should be a framework law and that the details should be regulated in the form of notices, bearing in mind that greater and more substantial initiatives can continue to be discussed politically. As in so many other EU-related cases, it is important for us that, as far as matters are concerned, we also relate to current practices in other countries, so that we do not lose competitiveness. With these words, we would like to recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135205	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135213	Thank you, sir. President. In the Conservative People's Party, too, we naturally believe that it is a question of having the necessary reduction in all CO2 emissions. It is the case that air traffic is worldwide and it was best that a worldwide agreement on this was drawn up in the same way as ship traffic. It must then take place in the IMO. We're waiting for that too. If we agree on too strict rules locally, competitiveness will suffer where it applies, but not where it does not apply, and then the activity will move out there, and then you can cheat on things. A set of rules has been agreed here. There are now some things that are being postponed and some things that are being changed. The various things stated here in the bill we support, but still away on the assumption that we need this quota system to work on the long track.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135306	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135318	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. After all, with effect from 1 January 2015, it will adapt Danish law in order to ensure the application of the changes to CO2 April this year. The rules set out in the EU Regulation include, first and foremost, a temporary derogation from the requirements for monitoring, reporting and surrendering allowances to CO2 The derogation shall apply from 2013 up to and including 2016. In 2016, the derogation is to be revised on the basis of progress in negotiations on an international agreement under the auspices of the international aviation organisation. In addition, an international agreement is expected to contain a common global market-based instrument to reduce CO2 EU regulation means that CO2 2 The proposal temporarily relieves the burden on air transport operators covered by CO2 The draft law must also ensure a simpler and more correct implementation of EU rules in Denmark than is the result of the applicable CO2 On this point there is a change in the method of implementation, with some rules being moved to a regulation. The main elements that change in relation to the current CO 2 2 2 2 As the rules often change on CO 2 2 It is noted and I would like to stress this very strongly that negotiations on changes to EU rules on CO 2 are finally proposed on the basis of the preliminary administrative experience with CO 2 2 I am of course pleased with the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the single elements of the bill in the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135609	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135625	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135649	Thank you for that, President. L 48 is a draft law amending the law on electricity supply, the law on natural gas supply, the law on subsidies for the promotion of renewable energy in corporate production processes, the Biofuel Act and the law on the promotion of energy savings. Part of the bill is a follow-up to parts of agreements on the 2014 growth package concluded by the government, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Left. This means that we are implementing those parts of the agreement which deal with the general business facilitation of payment to the PRS for electricity, the abolition of the grant scheme for non-quota electricity generation and the abolition of the PSO payment for gas. The Left welcomes the fact that this agenda, which we have been trying for a long time to address to the government, is now gaining ground. It is crucial for the competitiveness of Danish companies that we ensure a relaxation of the overall PSO burden. As part of the implementation of the Natural Gas Supply Act, the PSO payment for gas is also abolished. This bill also provides for derogations from the incorporation rate for biofuels so that the companies covered by the Biofuel Act are allowed to derogate from the incorporation rate by up to half a percentage point, in return for the derogation to be offset in the following calendar year. Finally, the bill provides that end customers for electricity, gas, hot water, heating and cooling are guaranteed the right to obtain an invoice based on actual consumption. These are all things that move Denmark's energy policy in the right direction, which is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135850	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111135858	Thank you. As the rapporteur of the Left has already explained, this is part of the implementation of the growth agreement that was concluded before the summer holidays among a wide range of parliamentary parties, which was, of course, about addressing the challenge we faced, namely that the PSP had increased more than we had assumed in the energy conciliation, and therefore some companies were exposed to competition, so that we thought we would like to give them a hand in this. In this context, of course, it is important to target it as much as possible, and that is why it is here, it can be said, general relief at the same time ensured that it goes to those companies in a market where they compete and not to households, because for them a compensation system or counter-productive effect has been created. Moreover, there is the abolition of the PSO for gas. It is clear that this support has been necessary for upgrading the natural gas system and other things, for example. for biogas. That task still exists, and that is why in future it will be financed by the Finance Act, you might say, from another box, but we will set up the PSP to help companies in this context, and then we will find the money elsewhere. Similarly, there is the abolition, which has also been mentioned, of the non-quota system for electricity generation, which has in fact become a little oversimplified because it has emerged from the fact that some electricity producers in the quota sector were allocated free of charge quotas. After all, they are no longer doing so, and in that sense there is no reason to compensate people who are outside the quota system for some of those who are inside to receive free quotas. It is a little bit technical, but in general there is broad political agreement on this, because, as has already been said, it moves our industry in the right direction in terms of being competitive, while protecting the PSO system and the system we have, in order to support the green transition here at home, which we also want to take care of. Of course, the Socialists support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140109	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140121	The bill here is part of the implementation of the growth package agreed this summer between the government and a number of parties in the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party. And that is why I do not think I am surprising anyone by saying that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill here, when it is part of an agreement that we are part of. The Danish People's Party, together with other parties, had been watching for a long time this spring with concern that the PSP had just increased far too violently more than provided when we entered into the energy agreement back in 2012 and had therefore become a burden on our business competitiveness in relation to abroad. Potentially, it could also lead to the loss of jobs in Denmark if we maintained such a high PSF. That is why we are also pleased that we, together with the government and some other parties, have been able to conclude this agreement, which is just relaxing the PSO for business, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of Danish business. We believe that this is a very good step in the right direction, and we are pleased that the government has been responsive, even though it took some time to shout it out. The draft law also contains a few amendments which are outside the scope of the agreement, but which are also quite reasonable, among other things. a slightly more relaxed view of how to administer the scheme for the incorporation of biofuels into the fuel of motor vehicles. It is the case that there is a requirement that 5.75% be involved. in motor fuel, and in future it can be administered more flexibly, so that you do not have to comply with the requirement to the letter one year, if only you compensate accordingly the following year. It is good for the oil industry, which is why we can also support the inclusion of this element. So, overall, it's a good bill. It is a good agreement that strengthens Danish business and would like to make it possible for us to retain more jobs in this country. So the Danish People's Party is happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140337	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Andreas Steenberg as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140344	For many years it was said that Denmark did not have to have production anymore. We could only be those who planned, designed, marketed the goods, and then everything could be produced in some other countries, it was thought, because today everyone can see that something has to be done to keep production in Denmark, because without production everything else disappears too, as we have seen since the financial crisis. Against this background, the government has made two growth plans and reforms of everything from the labour market to vocational training, and this summer we chose to play out by facilitating the so-called PSO tax, which is a burden for a great many energy-intensive companies, without compromising our green ambitions, which are still intact. The Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten were included in the agreement, and I would like to thank you for that. I thank you for the cooperation we have found here in the Folketing on this matter. The bill we are now considering implements part of the agreement we made this summer. In order to facilitate the PRS tax, what is called the grant scheme for non-quota electricity generation, which also goes by the name CO2, is being abolished. It is currently financed by the PSO and, therefore, by abolishing it, it is possible to save money and reduce the PSO. The bill also abolishes the PSO on gas, which is part of the agreement of this summer. It means lower electricity prices for those who make electricity on gas. The bill also introduces some amendments which are not part of the growth agreement from this summer. Among other things: Today, when biofuels are to be incorporated into petrol, it is calculated per year. I would like to know if there has been the biofuels that are going to be there, and so this proposal will now allow us to look over several years to see if there has been the biofuel in which it is going to be. This makes it easier for companies to comply with the law and thus fuel and diesel become cheaper than it would otherwise have been. A lot of EU law is also being implemented with this bill, and then you extend the right of appeal for consumers to Energinet.dk. The Radical Left can support the draft law as it stands and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140613	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111140624	Thank you. If, before commenting on the proposal, I am going to say something to the last rapporteur, then I would say that one may have to speak for oneself. Well, in SF we haven't been saying that you shouldn't have production. We have said that production should be turned in a green direction. We have not said that we should not have production and that we should not be a country of production, so the radical rapporteur must take that on his own cloak. I would say that there has been a misunderstanding, how really many people have thought that if you turned it in a green direction, it would lead to the absence of production. But if you have visited one of the companies that make platforms for offshore wind turbines, you know that the factory area itself actually looks like a shipyard. So once you have tried it, you know that of course we must have production, but it must be the right production and the right direction. Well, I'll move on to the proposal. After all, if we are to be honest and call a spade a spade, the proposal is basically about reducing costs for business. And we have agreed to this, while ensuring that the level of ambition of the agreement we reached a few years ago, which is something that we in the SF are proud of, has been maintained. This has been confirmed most recently in the projections, etc. that have been made. So in this way, we've helped ease the business costs of using this instrument, which is in this bill on the PSO, etc. What has been called into question, and I think that should also be said, is that it has weakened our climate action. It hasn't weakened our energy efforts, but it has weakened our climate effort, and that's how the news these days shows it is. That is why my party attaches great importance and also crucial importance to the fact that, in the financial law that we can agree on, we will hopefully have a strong climate effort. For it is clear that we have the problem that we have weakened the climate effort in relation to what we would otherwise have been given. The last thing I have to say about is the energy efficiency improvement part, which is the implementation of the EU's energy efficiency improvement directive. Here I would just like to point out that we in the committee will be looking at whether it is not wrong that we should not go quite out to the individual consumer. The whole idea is that the individual consumer should be able to read his energy consumption on an ongoing basis, and I understand that if someone lives in housing associations etc., he will only go to the distribution system. We don't think that's enough. In fact, for many years I have been fighting for a complete exit, and now I understand that technology is also in place and that it is not a significant cost, at least not a cost greater than the potential opportunity to make money by following one's consumption. This is therefore one of the things that we want to pursue in committee, with the aim at least of getting a decision that means going directly to the individual consumer so that you can read your electricity consumption directly, wherever you live, so that you do not only have the opportunity to save energy if you live in a parcel house.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141019	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141028	It is noteworthy, however, with the relatively subdued enthusiasm expressed by the rapporteur of the Left, bearing in mind that a growth package has been agreed here, which there were great fanfares about what should lead to at least at the start of the negotiations on it. The truth is that it is hardly possible to underestimate the importance of this growth package in terms of what it will lead to from increased employment and economic development in our country. But that is how it is when growth packages are to be made that involve the right: the accidents are usually greater than the joys. During the negotiations, the Enhedslisten's position on the things included in this draft law has in fact been two quite simple points of view. It had to be ensured that when we had finished the negotiations we still had an agreement to achieve the goals both of CO2 it was achieved. It also had to be ensured that we had at least an understanding with the government that if it were the case that, despite compliance with what had been agreed, we could nevertheless see that what ended up being adopted had a negative effect and created a greater CO2 that we have also arranged. It can of course be said that it is a bit annoying that we need to spend time negotiating with the government to get the damage done to ourselves, but for our party it is not unusual to be in that situation when it comes to negotiating with the government, so we take that on our hands. That was the energy and climate element of it. The second thing we stressed was to make sure that this did not mean that ordinary people paid more because business had to be freed from some expenses. And one might think that it would be really difficult to ensure that the energy policy climate objective was maintained intact, while at the same time avoiding the fact that these billions of dollars of reliefs to business, which the Left and Conservatives were constantly talking about, were passed on to ordinary people as expenses. Now it was just so fortunate that the government had entered into another growth agreement with the right in Danish politics the year before, and happily there were some funds at that time that could not really be allocated. They could then be used this time and then you could brag about them twice. In this way, it can be said that it has actually been quite simple to make an agreement which means that we can live up to our climate ambition and that we can live up to our energy ambitions, with the addition that some supplement can be made to CO2 Steen Gade and that we can maintain a sensible social balance. That wasn't so bad. Then there are other elements in this, which are really stupid. For example: It is stupid that we have actually put ourselves in the situation where the possibility of using wine in the heating sector is in fact being reduced by this, and that is a little strange. In fact, I do not think that there is any party in the Folketing that does not think it would be a good idea to use more electricity from wind turbines to produce heat. Nevertheless, we then agree to make it harder and worse, and it has been done foolishly. But that is one of the risks that arises when you reach very broad compromises on very complex and complex things and to a large extent leave it to the party's top politicians who may not be influenced by the great insight in this area to drive the pen. I think we really have to say that. I would also like to stress that both we and the SF are prepared to repair this together with the government, and we hope that this will also be achieved in the context of financial law negotiations that we now have. After all, after conciliation, where the right has been involved, financial law negotiations always have such a bit of repair over them. It doesn't have as much shape of repair over it as when you leave it to the government to make agreements alone with the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, because then things are going really wrong, but it's still a repair. The point for us is that we're not excited about this bill. It basically does not contain anything that points in the right direction, but we have managed to maintain a high level of ambition and we have succeeded in ensuring a sensible economic balance. And making agreements with the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party, which contain the elements, I think are basically very well done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141502	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141510	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance will, of course, welcome a reduction in the PSO tax, which is purely a tax on the competitiveness of companies. We have heard a great many times from the parties behind the energy conciliation that there are plenty of jobs in energy policy; in other words, the fact that taxes are raised in order to grant subsidies to certain technologies, there are jobs in them. The reduction of a tax for companies, which we are now discussing here today, is, after all, part of the growth package that we have heard. We are also doing this in order to get jobs, and this is not the first time we have done this in order to get more people into jobs. But the logic of the government must be that you both get more jobs, when you set taxes as in the energy settlement, and when you put them down again. In other words, energy policy is pure magic. We also heard from the former Minister for Energy again and again in the debate on the energy conciliation that although it was expensive, he knew it would be even more expensive if we did nothing, mainly because fossil fuels would rise in price. At least that's what it sounded like back then. I do not need to remind you that with a fall in oil prices of 25-30 per cent, things have gone significantly differently. in less than six months, which will then have a spill-over effect on electricity prices and thus the PRS tax, which seems to know only one way, and it is up, up and up. In other words, consumers are paying the bill, while the wind industry, or wind turbines, is rather, because they are sure to get their settlement regardless of the market price. It is, and remains, an unhealthy system, so I think we should use the occasion or confession case, which is really the issue here, to ask ourselves: do we really have to keep supporting in this way? Feeding a baby for a certain period of time may be argued for, but it is not good to feed an adult, as we are doing here in the energy settlement with the PRS tax. If we are to support new technologies, let us put them in the Finance Act, and let us do so so that it is the same for everyone and that we can clearly see that it is part of a priority among other benefits. After all, the PRS tax costs really well-being, as is happening today. So we're up to something that looks like 40 billion. kr. Until 2020. I repeat: 40 billion. kr. By 2020! And what if we have four times as many wind turbines? You can get some hospitals and some kindergarten for that. But this should not prevent us from being pleased that with this bill we are cutting a little off the top of the problem. So let us continue with this and get the PRS put on the Finance Act if we are going to support it at all in this area. With these words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111141835	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the bill, and we cannot, of course, because the money used to lower the PSO tax and hence the energy tax is taken by an increase in the base tax. We are vertically opposed to this, it is a point of principle, and we are therefore surprised that the Left and the government with parties to the agreement have been able to agree to it. So we are against that. But we are very much in favour of doing something about it, which we also made a great deal of pointing out in the run-up to these negotiations, namely that energy prices were too high in relation to the energy agreement we had made, because there were different conditions. The economy has left, and prices have risen. We would like to help in particular to do something for the highly competitive industries, those competing with abroad, where you do not have a PRS tax at the top of the energy tax. We would like to compensate them, just as we would like to bring back the level of expenditure for ordinary citizens in relation to what we had agreed when we entered into the conciliation; in relation to the 3.5 billion. kr. we could see that the cost had increased. And, in particular, it was a problem for companies because they did not create the jobs and could sell the goods and products in the world that were the starting point for the settlement we made. So we welcome the whole debate and debate on the lowering of the PRS tax, that is to say the electricity tax, and we support it, but when you find the money by raising the tax elsewhere, it is obviously absolutely impossible for the Conservative People's Party to participate in it. We are a party that is working in any context to reduce taxes, reduce taxes, remove the obstacles and barriers that exist in order for our Danish companies to deliver jobs, to sell goods, products and services on the market, so that more can be employed, so that companies earn more, so that there is a greater revenue for the Treasury, so that we can maintain the prosperity and welfare society that we so much want. With these considerations, the Conservative People's Party is overall opposed to this bill, although we have warmly recommended lowering energy prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142043	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142051	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. This bill requires five different laws to be amended. After all, the main purpose of the bill is to implement parts of the agreement reached by the government on 14 July with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten on growth package 2014. The growth package contains a number of initiatives aimed at reducing corporate PSO spending by 2020. Since the conclusion of the Energy Agreement in 2012, the electricity price has decreased and today the electricity price is significantly lower than expected. A lower electricity price leads to a higher PSO cost, and the falling electricity price has therefore resulted in the cost of PSO having increased more than was expected at the time of the conclusion of the Energy Agreement in 2012. The cost of PSOs increases the cost of electricity to companies. Business-oriented reductions in PSOs will therefore reduce the price of electricity, and this will help improve the framework conditions for companies to compete with foreign companies. In order to improve the business environment, the 2014 Growth Package Agreement contains a point on the easing of corporate PSO costs through a general relaxation of PSOs. As the relaxation is general, the PSO costs for households and industries that do not use electricity for the process will also be relaxed, but this relaxation will be offset by an increase in energy taxes. Therefore, the relaxation of the PSO costs is targeted to the business community. In order to support the initiatives to reduce electricity consumption payments to PSOs for electricity, the 2014 Growth Package also includes an agreement that the grant scheme for non-quota electricity generation, also referred to as CO2 The scheme is currently financed by PRS funds, and the repeal of the scheme will therefore lead to a direct reduction in electricity consumption payments to PSOs. In the context of the Energy Agreement in 2012, it was agreed that a PRS fee should be imposed on gas consumption. This PSO fee should help to finance the upgrading and treatment of biogas so that the gas can be added to the natural gas network or to an urban gas network. In the context of the 2014 Growth Package Agreement, it was agreed that PSO gas costs should also be abolished in order to reduce the production costs of companies and the energy costs of consumers for gas. In addition, the draft law contains a number of amendments which do not stem from the 2014 Growth Package Agreement. Among other things: concerns the amendment of the law on subsidies for the promotion of renewable energy in the production processes of enterprises. New state aid rules have been introduced in the European Union and it is therefore necessary to amend them to bring them into line with these new rules. In the area of biofuels, there is a need to amend the Biofuels Act so as to reduce the costs for companies to comply with the legislation. It may be difficult for companies to predict the need for the incorporation of biofuels into petrol and diesel over the year. In order to ensure compliance with the law, companies today need to plan to involve a surplus of biofuels, which makes petrol and diesel more expensive and leads to increased costs for companies and drivers. It will be possible to reduce the costs for companies to incorporate biofuels, and hence also the costs for drivers, if it is possible for companies to transfer under-fulfilment for one year to the following year, so that they do not have to plan to over-fill the incorporation requirement. And this opportunity is created by this bill. Articles of the Energy Efficiency Directive that end customers for electricity, gas, hot water and heat should be entitled to obtain invoices and billing information based on actual consumption free of charge, should still be implemented in relation to final customers' distribution meters. The requirements shall apply by 31 December 2014. The proposal introduces a legal basis into the law on the promotion of savings in energy consumption, so that I am authorised to lay down rules that ensure full implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive in relation to final customers with distribution meters. Finally, there is a need to extend the right of appeal to the Energy Complaints Board in the Electricity Law, so that in future there will be, among other things: Energinet.dk's decisions on the costs of public obligations for network operators and decisions on the reduction of electricity consumption costs for public obligations for an annual electricity consumption exceeding 100 GWh per year can also be complained of. place of consumption. I am, of course, pleased with the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today, and I look forward to continuing the discussions in the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. With these comments, I would ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142533	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that this bill should also be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142548	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142612	Thank you for that, President. L 49 is a draft law amending the law on the safety of offshore installations for the exploration, production and transport of hydrocarbons, the Law on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Environmental Damage Act. The bill implements essential parts of the offshore safety directive aimed at preventing major accidents related to offshore oil and gas activities and at limiting the consequences, should this happen anyway. A major change is that the company's safety and health statement should be extended to include the control of major accident hazards related to marine pollution and that the report should be reviewed at least every five years. Furthermore, companies must inform the supervisory authority of major accidents outside the EU. Finally, provisions are included in the Marine Environment Act on a national contingency plan for accidents related to offshore activities, new supervisory powers and legal basis for establishing a whistleblower scheme. These are all measures supported by the Left. Nevertheless, we would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister can guarantee that Denmark will not implement the law by means of this bill, which is an over-implementation. These are large amounts of money that we are now going to burden with wind farms and other offshore activities, and that is not because we are questioning maritime safety, but we would like to ask whether a neighbouring check has been carried out on this and whether it is an over-implementation that we are in the process of doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142758	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142808	Thank you. This proposal is, after all, about increasing safety in the extraction of, for example. oil, and I think it is important to bear in mind that we already have quite tough rules today and that safety is quite good, but unfortunately we have also sometimes seen that when things go wrong, things are going really wrong in this context. We cannot, of course, gamble with the environment in this way, and that is why we must also do everything we can to be at the forefront and close all the gaps that could be and make sure that we do not go wrong as well as possible. This proposal will enhance the environmental safety of oil and gas activities offshore. This will be done by putting higher requirements on the prevention and remedying of companies if there are accidents and accidents, and by regular internal controls, it can be said that we are tightening up the procedures that exist. In addition, there needs to be an independent response to ensure that the procedures are as they should be. National emergency plans are required, and whistleblower arrangements are being discussed, so this means that people who get wind that something is not the way it should be should have the opportunity to say so. And, of course, it must be clear that liability for the damage that may be done, i.e. environmental damage, must be covered. This applies both to prevention and to the relief of the people who earn money from it if things are going well. All in all, we think this is a good step, an important step in the right direction. Although safety is already relatively high today, we can never be too sure against irreparable damage to the environment. That is why the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111142950	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143003	Thank you. The legislative proposal here is the implementation of another EU directive, namely the offshore safety directive. As I said during the discussion of the previous draft law, we in the Danish People's Party do not automatically say yes when we see an EU directive, but take a position on the material content. In this particular case, it is an outcome of the major accident that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico a few years ago, when there was a huge oil spill from a drilling platform, and this has got the EU system going to look at offshore safety here in the European Union. The work has resulted in the offshore safety directive, which is being put forward as a legislative proposal today. I would like to say that in the Danish People's Party we think it is extremely important that safety is in order, both for the sake of people and, above all, for the sake of the environment, when gas and oil are extracted. In Denmark we have a large extraction in the Danish part of the North Sea, so it is highly relevant that we have good safety procedures in this country. In some areas, the draft law strengthens the legislation we already have in Denmark, and in the Danish People's Party we certainly have confidence in the companies that operate the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea. We are confident that they will conscientiously ensure that safety is in order, but that is why it should not prevent us from looking at whether the rules we have are good enough and whether it can be done better. My assessment of the offshore safety directive is that it is a tightening up in some areas of current Danish legislation, but on the other hand I must also say that we cannot be safe enough because, while we are doing our best, there can still be accidents, and it would just be a disaster if there were a major spill of oil in the North Sea, for example. That is why we think it is appropriate that safety has been improved with the legislation being presented here. I have also taken note of the fact that the Offshore Security Council, which we have in Denmark, where all stakeholders in this area have a seat, also stands for the bill. So we are quite confident about that, and I think we will have improved safety at sea with this bill, so in the Danish People's Party we agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143252	When Denmark extracts gas and oil in the North Sea and sets up wind turbines in the sea, it is absolutely essential for the Radical Left to take care of the environment, nature and the employees who have to work with it. This is already happening to a very large extent today, when the concern for the environment and the safety of workers is very great. The bill we are now considering implements the offshore safety directive adopted in the European Union, which has acted after an accident occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The directive introduces a large number of new procedures and tools of a very technical nature which help to increase safety once again. One of the main reasons why the Radical Left can support the bill is that the various parties working on it have been involved and are supporting this bill. That is why we can support the draft law as it stands and we hope for a majority in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143356	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Steen Gade for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143405	Thank you. The proposal, as others have said, is first and foremost the implementation of an EU directive and then some small other things. The Offshore Safety Directive attaches importance to extending safety in areas that we consider important. One focuses on the management system and looks at the risks of major accidents, one must have an independent verification of safety and environmental critical elements, one must inform the supervisory authorities of major accidents, and one must also have an independent authority responsible for offshore safety. This means that we move it from the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Building to the Ministry of Employment. And then we extend the rules on liability for environmental damage, where we also go beyond what is covered by the Water Framework Directive, i.e. the entire maritime area, as I understand it. In other words, we will have a fairly strong tightening of the rules for oil extraction and gas extraction in marine waters, and that is a good thing. In fact, I think it can be said that this is sensible care shown by the political system at EU level following the major disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. The only thing I would like to say here before I finish is that I think we could take the opportunity in committee to look just at what the rules are like in our area here. In addition to the EU, where all EU countries have to implement these directives, there is Norway. I think it might be interesting just to have it all looked through and see if we have parallelity, or if there are places where, for example. Norway has gone further in terms of offshore security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143626	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Clausen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143632	It can be relatively brief, because I think most of it has been said by Mr. Steen Gade. This draft law contains a number of sensible initiatives which strengthen safety, tighten controls, so that there will be separation between the various authorities, those who are interested in, it might be said, the professional operation of it, in relation to those who take care of the security aspects. You have a sensible idea of how to solve the problem with the context that is being established here, namely that you see both the environmental impacts and the health and safety impacts in the context, but at the same time use the fact that you have different authorities in Denmark that are good at handling it here. So we think that the proposals to tighten up the safety rules that lie here are sensible and correct. When it comes to the extraction of oil from the underground in the North Sea, there is no reason at all to wait for something to happen before action is taken. It is wise to learn from the experience that has been gained elsewhere in the world. So Enhedslisten is positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143736	Thank you. And then Mr. Villum Christensen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143742	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is probably a reaction to the accident on the drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico as far back as spring 2010, i.e. 41⁄2 years ago. It may say a little about the speed and bureaucracy of the European Union. Nevertheless, it may, of course, be sensible to learn from these incidents and to incorporate minimum requirements for preventing and limiting the consequences once the accident has occurred. Most people probably remember how difficult it was to solve the problems of the Gulf of Mexico. It dragged on and had huge environmental consequences for the whole area and also huge economic consequences for the companies that were behind it. Given that considerable economic interests are at stake, we also think it is wise to separate the functions of authority in the offshore oil and gas sectors, so that it is not the same organisation that decides both on exploration and recovery rights and, at the same time, has to assess safety and prevention. So the Minister of Energy must live with a reduction in the Pastorate. As I understand it, the tasks and staff will be transferred to the Factory Inspectorate. We also note with satisfaction that, with the proposed amendments, the Marine Environment Act should provide for the possibility of a national external emergency plan in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and a clarification of the financial obligations of the concession holder in relation to the very high cost of investigating, preventing and remedying environmental damage. Of course, clarity is important when the bill is to be paid. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143935	Thank you. And the last rapporteur is Mr. Mike Legarth for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111143943	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. As several speakers have said, it stems from the accident in the Gulf of Mexico on the Deep Water Horizon platform in 2010, where 11 died. The well that sprang leaks created enormous oil pollution, and since then we have thought about how to tighten up the safety rules, how to introduce stricter and more regular supervision than in the past, and how to also announce the risks that are both within and outside the European Union, etc. Everything is going in exactly the right direction and we support everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144023	Thank you. Then concludes the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144034	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their constructive comments on the draft law. As the rapporteurs have probably noted, the amendments to the offshore security law have been approved by the Offshore Safety Council and the Council has been informed of the changes to environmental legislation. There is therefore broad support for the legislative proposal by the parties concerned. The Government attaches high importance to safety and environmental protection in offshore oil and gas activities, and fortunately both the level of safety and environmental protection in the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea is already very high, and the draft law increases safety further. The bill implements essential parts of the offshore safety directive. The aim of the directive is to prevent major accidents such as the one we saw in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, where 11 people died and there was a massive oil spill from a well on the Deep Water Horizon platform. Denmark already has a very high level of safety in the North Sea, but safety is further enhanced by better prevention of major accidents. Major accidents, within the meaning of the directive, also include major environmental incidents such as discharges to the sea due to fire and explosions from, for example, wells on the plant. The increased safety is seen in particular in well activities, where there is a new requirement for activities to be independently verified and, in order to reduce the risk of a major environmental incident, the legislative proposal means that in future companies must have an integrated approach to dealing with safety and environmental risks. Among other things: The draft law requires companies to control the risk of major accidents also to control the risk of major environmental incidents. Denmark already has a high level of preparedness in relation to the marine environment, and this is maintained with the implementation of the directive. The main amendments to the Marine Environment Act are the requirement for an external contingency plan for oil and chemical pollution of the sea and a whistleblower scheme. The amendments to the Marine Environment Act also provide for new supervisory powers, including, where necessary, to prohibit the operation of oil and gas activities if the operator fails to comply with the essential regulatory requirements. The Environmental Damage Act extends the definition of environmental damage to the aquatic environment so that the rules cover the Danish aquatic environment up to the 200-mile limit. In addition, it is proposed that costs for preventing and remedying environmental damage caused by offshore oil and gas activities should be covered by rightholders. The draft law contains a few other amendments which do not concern the implementation of the directive, for example: new fixed production facilities must be separated into so-called main areas in order to minimise the consequences of major accidents. This means, in practice, that the plants must be built in a way that allows an explosion in, for example. the production area cannot spread to the residential area. In addition, it is proposed to allow owners of wind turbines themselves to pay for noise measurements on an equal footing with owners of wind turbines on land. It will also be possible to complain to the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board for decisions on self-control of noise from wind turbines, preparedness and discharge permits. It was asked by the rapporteur on behalf of the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group whether this is an over-implementation. I have to say, there isn't. There is no over-implementation in the offshore safety law, whereas there are some minor over-implementations in the marine environment law, but the annual work which is planned to be extended in the light of the present draft law only results from the implementation of the directive, so it is less over-implementation that is over in the environmental part. Let me thank you for the interest that Things has expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing these discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in committee, and I would ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144421	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144425	Thank you for the Minister's statement. It is not the case that the Left is standing on its hind legs and saying that this is a completely crazy bill. On the contrary, we support this, as I did in my rapporteur's speech. But I would like the Minister to send to the committee what the Minister defines as overimplementation is exactly and what it has to do with the financial consequences for a Danish company versus a company which does not come from Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144458	Thank you. I would, of course, very much like to overlook what we see as over-implementation. As I said, it is not my impression that there are significant economic consequences of this over-implementation. I can give an example of the fact that there is an earlier entry into force of a clause which allows for the possibility of banning the continued operation of platforms and pipelines covered by the directive and a whistleblower scheme which is proposed to enter into force earlier than the directive prescribes, so it is a proposal of the caliber that is an overimplementation. This is not, of course, something that is judged to have major economic consequences. I'd love to overlook it. This is also something that we may be able to discuss in detail in the committee's deliberations on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144544	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144603	The debate is open. First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144627	Thank you. For the Left, it is crucial that we ensure better conditions for running a business in Denmark, because without a well-functioning business, any discussion about distributing welfare becomes reasonably empty. The money must be earned, and we have traveled around with that message for a long time, so it was also positive, as the government realised the need to take further initiatives to ensure that growth in Denmark gets under way. It then became the growth agreement, which was agreed by successive majorities in June and July. It is probably no secret that we on the Left would have liked the agreement to be more ambitious, but the agreement is a step in the right direction. For many companies, the lack of capital is perhaps the biggest growth barrier, and the draft law we are now discussing relaxes the tax on dividends on unlisted portfolio shares. In concrete terms, companies will only have to take account of 70% in the future. of the dividends received in their taxable income. This means a real reduction in the dividend tax on the holding of unlisted portfolio shares by companies. The proposal also means that there is equality between Danish and foreign investors, and this should help to increase investment in Denmark. When the tax gets lower, more investment becomes profitable. And we absolutely need to increase investment in companies in Denmark, because if we do not get more investment, then we do not get the capital that can be so crucial for companies to grow, can create more jobs and can ensure that the wheels are running in Denmark. As I have said, the draft law comes from the June agreement, and in this respect I have to say that we in the Left are surprised that the government must postpone the part of the relaxation which relates to how much portfolio companies should include in taxes. On the basis of the necessary systems, as stated in the proposal, yes, it cannot actually enter into force here from 1 January 2015, but unfortunately only from 1 January 2016. And now we are so far in the process that unfortunately there is no time to correct it, but I have to say that I am surprised that it may surprise the government, since it is now more than six months since the government presented the proposal. However, as I said, the draft law is a step in the right direction. This means that the tax on dividends from portfolio shares is relaxed, and we on the Left think this is a good idea. That is why, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144903	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111144914	Thank you. I do not think it is a secret that the economic crisis has been hard on the small businesses in this country in particular. Many people have had difficulty in obtaining funding from the banks. It limits the opportunities to grow bigger • what is called in modern Danish to grow, as we could just hear from the rapporteur of the Left. It limits their ability to invest in the necessary development and therefore limits their ability to help create some of the new, much needed jobs. That is why we in the government parties have been concerned to look at what we can do to secure risk capital for the smaller Danish companies, and that is what the political agreement reached before the summer and the bill we are discussing here today is intended to do. It was the growth package that was agreed, and it was an agreement between the government, the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, and that is why we are here today with a proposal to reduce the tax on the profits of companies for unlisted portfolio shares, so that they have easier access to capital. The rapporteur of the Left has mentioned this. From now on it will be 70%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and their trailers. In this way, taxation falls from 24.5%. this year at just over 15%. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). The proposal also guarantees something that is important and relevant, namely the equality of Danish and foreign investors. After all, we need to see this proposal as a helping hand to the needy small businesses, which have the ideas to develop, grow bigger and help create jobs, which we need, of course, but which lack funding to put the ideas into practice. On the part of the Socialists, we welcome the agreement reached before the summer and, of course, we also support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145105	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145113	The draft law here concerns a reduction in the tax on dividends. The background is an agreement between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. It is therefore an agreement in which the Danish People's Party is involved, so I can already reveal that we naturally support the proposal. Specifically, the bill is about reducing the taxation of dividends from unlisted portfolio shares by Danish companies. The aim is to encourage more companies to invest in unlisted companies, thereby facilitating the attracting of risk capital. It is precisely the creation of risk capital that can be very difficult, especially for entrepreneurs and start-ups, and with this bill we are taking a step in that direction and making it easier. The more technical aspect of the bill is that in the future 70% will. of dividends are included in Danish companies' taxable income, as opposed to 100 per cent. under the applicable rules. This reduces real taxation from 24.5%. in 2014 to just over 16 per cent. in 2015 and just over 15%. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). The relief will also ensure equality between Danish and foreign investors. It can be said that in the past foreign investors were better off than Danish investors, so it is positive that this proposal will change it. But the main reason for this bill is that it is easier to attract capital to entrepreneurs, and it is a purpose that the Danish People's Party supports. So with these words, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145247	Thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145255	Thank you. I would also like to say in solidarity with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that yes, I reveal that the Radical Left supports the bill. It can be said that with the first part of "Growth Plan" we went for approx. 11⁄2 years ago in and improved the business environment, which was absolutely necessary. This was true of the general framework conditions, but we also had to look at some sector-specific issues. And that is because business is crucial to increasing prosperity and getting Denmark out of the economic crisis. With a wake-up plan DK... the second part, we followed the wake-up plan DK... the first part, and once again improved the business environment. One of the very good proposals is this proposal that we are considering now, namely the proposal to reduce the tax on dividends. It is true that we are taking one step here, but it is an important step, because it must not be the case that capital taxation, including tax on dividends, hampers the investment climate and hampers the opportunity for entrepreneurs to become growth entrepreneurs. It is incredibly crucial that business and especially growth companies have access to capital, and it is important that there is an incentive for investors to invest in these important companies. So, overall, I can only say that in the Radical Left in particular we are pleased with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145446	Thank you, and then it is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145455	The bill is part of the implementation of the growth package agreement implemented earlier this year in 2014, but this part is outside the scope of the SF. Much has been said about what it contains, and I would just like to say that, in relation to the reduction of dividends from all unlisted portfolio shares, SF has not been able to support it. We see it as a tax relief where there is a priority that we do not agree with, and that is why we will not be voting in favour of the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145530	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who speaks for the Liberal Alliance as I see no one from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145546	The draft law provides for a reduction in the dividend tax on unlisted portfolio shares, which will in fact mean a relief from just over 24 per cent. at just over 15%. This is supported by the Liberal Alliance for the same reasons that other rapporteurs from the platform have said they support it. It is a good move to increase the desire to invest in Denmark, and it is also good that we get equal taxation for foreign investors and Danish investors. So LA backs this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145620	Thank you, Mr President, and that is the Conservative rapporteur. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145627	One of the most important growth challenges we have in Danish society is the ability of entrepreneurs to create room for expansion of production, and they do so by getting some capital. They lack liquidity, they often lack credit. So one of the things that needs to be focused on when it comes to growth in a society is how to give the entrepreneurial brand the opportunity to get funding for innovation and increase production. This can be done by means of a whole range of initiatives, ranging from the Growth Fund to better credit opportunities, etc., but the most important and best way to do so is after all that some private investors go in and invest in some production companies • entrepreneurs who want to develop and create a business. The fact that the tax on dividends for unlisted portfolio shares is now being reduced means that more companies are now being given the opportunity to invest in unlisted companies, and these are typically entrepreneurship companies. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. We ourselves helped to reach agreement on this in the context of the growth agreement, and it is a good proposal that is moving in the right direction, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145739	Thank you. Then the tax minister has the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111145749	I would like to start by thanking you for receiving this proposal. After all, the proposal has come into being on the basis of the 2014 "Agreement on Growth Package," agreed by the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, and in this context it was agreed to reduce the tax on dividends. The aim is to make it easier to attract risk capital to, inter alia: small growth companies. The proposal provides for a targeted reduction in the tax on dividends for Danish shareholders. In concrete terms, the relief implies that Danish shareholders only have to include 70%. of the dividends in the determination of their taxable income and their investment in unlisted portfolio shares. I should like to make a few comments on the comments made by the rapporteur: on the whole, these were positive statements by the rapporteurs from Mrs Astrid Krag, from Mr Krag. Tod Dencker, from Mr. Tod Dencker. Nadeem Farooq and from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. It was from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, whom I understand on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, indicates that we are voting in favour of the proposal. Of course, I recognise Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's indication that this is not SF's priority. To Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen also recognises the praises that were expressed about this and the participation that is, of course, in the agreement. But Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen was, of course, in the area of implementation and its dates. I would like to make it clear here that dividends from unlisted portfolio shares received by a company after 1 January 2015 should only be included at 70%. in determining the taxable income of the recipient company, and therefore we, on the part of the government, also comply with the agreement. In practice, the tax on dividends is carried out by the Danish distribution company containing the dividend tax and sending it to SKAT; today 22 per cent are included. of the dividends when the recipient is another Danish company. A number of system adjustments must be made before this inclusion can be reduced to 15.4%, and unfortunately these can only be in place in 2016. This means that for 2015 22 per cent will continue to be included. in dividend tax on unlisted portfolio shares. The beneficiary companies may collect the tax relief by reducing their contributions of voluntary advance tax in March and November 2015, corresponding to the relief. So, in conclusion, I should just like to say that this government has a strong objective of improving the framework conditions for Danish business, and this proposal will help ensure growth and, above all, jobs in Denmark. I would like to thank you for the debate, although it was not so long, and I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150055	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150059	Thank you for the Minister's comments on the debate. That is exactly what the Minister had to say at the end, which leads me to speak. For this means that when SKAT's IT systems cannot be in place, the company distributing the share dividends must retain a higher amount than the recipient has to pay in tax. I would like to say that this is a problem, but I would just like to call on the Minister to ensure that this is made clear so that the companies receiving the dividends do not allow it to be fully included in their tax calculations. Otherwise, there will be no question of the relaxation in the short line proposed by the proposal. So I hope that the Minister will take the initiative to ensure that the possibilities described by the Minister are also clearly communicated, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where the relaxation we have agreed on is not realised, because the SKAT systems cannot find out and because the necessary clarity has not been created.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150159	We cannot in any way disagree on the need to ensure full clarity, and I think the easiest thing would be for us to ensure that the textual nature of the matter is reflected in the present committee procedure, so that it can also be clearly stated in the report on the legislative proposal that is being drafted, how this can be interpreted, so that no one can be in any doubt about it. We cannot disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150225	Thank you to all the rapporteurs and the tax minister. Now there was a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Frank Aaen at the last minute. I will allow him to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150246	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. I'm in some negotiations that are stalling a little bit. I just want to say that the Enhedslisten cannot vote for this proposal. We are not against supporting entrepreneurs, against supporting small businesses, but this bill is about supporting investors, so that those who invest in companies get tax relief, and we do not like that. We voted against when tax benefits were made tax-free, and we are also voting against the proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150320	Thank you. Then we also got those words on the table. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150346	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150419	Thank you for that, President. In the absence of the Conservatives, I should just like to say that I am also speaking on behalf of them. L 41 is the draft law amending the law on equations, the fund tax law, the law on the recovery of public debt, the law on an income register and various other laws. The part of the bill relating to the transport allowance in the outermost municipalities is that we extend the circle of municipalities which can obtain an increased transport allowance. The Left is very pleased that we are going in here to support the possibility that you can stay in an area that you are happy about, even if you have got a job that is far away from your home. The bill means that needy municipalities do not lose even more taxpayers to municipalities that have many jobs. There are municipalities that are severely affected by the centralisation of state jobs by the state, and it is not a development that the Left welcomes, but we are pleased that we can then, after all, accommodate the most affected municipalities with this law. In addition, municipalities will receive an increase in the share of corporate tax from 13.41 per cent. at 15.24 per cent. in the period 2014-2016. This must, of course, encourage municipalities to be more professionally friendly, which the Left welcomes. In addition, we extend the possibility of passing on information to financial companies. The proposal to extend financial companies' access to receive data from SKAT in the area of citizens, with the consent of their customers, means that the information previously provided to the financial institutions on paper can now be retrieved digitally, and this helps both parties. With these comments, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150612	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150626	Thank you. The former rapporteur is somewhat taller than I am, so I am just driving the platform down to a reasonable height. The government wants a living urban life and rural life and business life throughout Denmark, and that is an objective that the bill here supports. It is also another proposal that comes from the summer agreements on a growth package, which was, after all, concluded by a large majority of the parliamentary parties. With the bill here we provide an increased transport allowance for approximately 9,700 more commuters who each day have a long journey from their homes to their workplace. We are doing this by extending the circle of outermost municipalities from 16 to 25, where citizens who commute can obtain an increased transport allowance, and we are doing this in order to support precisely those people who choose to stay in what we call the outermost regions and create their lives and everyday lives there, even if they have a long journey time to their jobs. In order to give local authorities financial incentives to maintain and attract businesses and create an active, attractive business environment, the bill here also proposes gradually increasing the share of local authorities in corporate tax from the 13.41% they are now to 15.24 per cent. Until 2016. Finally, in a slightly different ball street, the draft law proposes an extension of the possibility of disclosure of information to financial companies. When we look at the consultation answers, they have generally been in favour of more peripheral municipalities being able to benefit from the increased transport allowance, and also of increasing the municipalities' share of corporate tax. A concern has been expressed about the last element of the draft law here and also in the press yesterday, namely in relation to the legal certainty of citizens in part of the proposal, which will extend the possibility of providing information to financial companies. It is, of course, a concern that must be taken seriously. We are touching something very central here, but I must also say that, as I have read the concern and seen the press coverage and can see from the consultation answers, it is therefore based on a misunderstanding that this communication of information can take place to a greater extent than will happen in reality. I mean, legal certainty must be in place. That is why we will have to make it clear in the legislative process that this is a once-in-a-lifetime consent. This is not the kind of carte blanche to pass on information, and it is not the case that the banks have access to some information that they do not need to have access to today in order to advise customers. But there will be easier access for the benefit of customers. But, of course, we must take it seriously when there are people expressing concern, which is why I am also looking forward to getting the work of the committee ready, what is up and down. If you are sitting out there in doubt and concerned, I would recommend a good reading, namely the press release sent by the tax minister yesterday on that part of the proposal. I think that'll calm most people down. So overall, this is a bill that makes it easier to be a banker. Hopefully, it will help to ensure that good life is lived in the outermost regions and that the municipalities also take their share of responsibility for having an attractive climate for the local business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111150951	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151005	The bill we are discussing here is part of the growth package from this summer. It was an agreement which contained a number of partial agreements with different parties. In the Danish People's Party we were part of the agreements, which will be translated into this bill, so we naturally support the bill. The bill contains a longer series of elements. It extends the range of outermost municipalities with an increased transport allowance and includes an increase in the municipalities' share of corporate tax and an extension of the possibility of disclosure of information to financial companies. As regards the extension of the circle of outlying municipalities with increased travel allowances, it has already been said in the debate that 16 municipalities are covered, and this bill extends to 25 municipalities. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very positive, as it will help to maintain and, above all, attract more commuters to the outer ommunes, who will be able to live and contribute to the maintenance of good and sustainable communities. It also provides increased mobility in the labour market, which is, of course, very good. The second part, which concerns a gradual increase in the share of the municipalities in corporate tax, is also a very sensible initiative, which aims to increase the share of corporate tax that the municipalities receive. Specifically, the rate is raised from 13.41 per cent. at 15.24 per cent. in the period from 2014 to 2016. It is clear that when you raise the part that the municipalities themselves are allowed to retain, you increase their financial incentive to maintain and attract businesses, and that is a very positive thing. However, I also think it is important to note that the change is also intended to offset the reduction in corporate tax. In fact, the reduction in corporate tax gave the municipalities less incentive to be business-friendly, as a smaller corporation tax leads to less revenue and therefore also less money for the municipalities. However, it is basically a good way to go, that the municipalities are given a greater incentive to be professionally friendly, so we naturally support this part of the legislative proposal as well. The draft law also deals with an element of extending the provision of information to financial undertakings. More specifically, this means that for example. banks are given an extended opportunity to receive data from SKAT in the area of citizens with the consent of customers. Financial undertakings may, on the basis of the proposal, obtain information for the purpose of consulting the customer and updating the customer information. This will be a good tool for companies in their risk assessments, but it is clear that this must be done in a balance with companies handling personal data and, as I said, only with the consent of the customer itself. So with these comments, I must say that we in the Danish People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151252	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151301	Thank you. This draft law, L 41, also contains, as the previous proposal, initiatives from the Growth Agreement. There are three initiatives here: there is the increased transport allowance, then we raise the municipalities' share of corporate tax, and then there is this proposal for e-SKAT data. Expanding the circle of outlying municipalities with increased transport allowances from 16 to 25 is a very good initiative, because it makes us get closer to the vision of Denmark in balance. This makes it easier for municipalities to attract and maintain labour, and this is so much needed, also in the sense that it is especially areas that are challenged that must make themselves very attractive. That is why it is important for us to give a hand, and this is what we are doing with this proposal. In addition, we increase the municipalities' share of corporate tax. I think that is a good adjustment in relation to the incentive structure. This means that there is a healthy competition to be the leading business community both nationally and within its region, or to be the best settlement municipality, which we will support from the centre. One might say that we have changed the compensation system in the past so that it went in the wrong direction in relation to the municipalities' incentive to attract companies, so this is a step in the right direction, and we are very pleased about that. Finally, there is the initiative to make it easier for those who need financial companies to send data to the company with e-SKAT data, and that is also quite good. So, overall, Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151519	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151532	This bill is also part of the implementation of the growth package agreement implemented in June 2014. Former rapporteurs have dealt with what the draft law contains. It is a mixed country trade of various things, among others. To extend the circle of outermost municipalities and, like others, I think it was Mrs Astrid Krag who mentioned it, we think it is a very positive thing. That the local authorities' share of corporation tax is increased, as Mr. Nadeem Farooq mentioned, we also think that is really positive in relation to the fact that business development is taking place locally out there. We think that is also appropriate. But what I want to spend the most time on here is the part of the bill that includes an extended access for banks and other financial companies for digital access to SKAT's information about citizens. A number of organisations have expressed concern, for example. The IT-Politics Association, and also in the consultation responses, we see a concern from e.g. The Danish Data Protection Agency, the Council of Lawyers, Danish Lawyers and Danish Tax Attorneys. I also think that some of the concerns that have been expressed have been well answered on a large scale, but on the part of the SF we would also like to ask a number of questions, both here to the Minister and, of course, also during the committee procedure itself, for example. when the Data Protection Agency writes in the consultation reply that only limited access to information can be granted in the income register, information included in the annual financial statements and arrears data, and here the Treasury replies that this will be taken into account in the design of the scheme. Does this mean that this will be clarified in the legislative proposal, and does this mean that there must be no universal consent? In general, SF is concerned with how the information is handled, i.e. who, how, when, how long; that there should be specific consent for a factually specific reason; that universal consent cannot be requested; that the information should be individually specific and cannot be used repeatedly, but only in the specific situation; that information should not be disclosed to subsidiaries and affiliated companies. At a time of justified concern about our legal and data security with hacker crimes, sloppy handling of data and discussions about the extent of our data, we find in the SF that it is imperative that we reverse any stone so that we can be sure that we protect citizens' rights to privacy and legal and data security, and that security is also to be found in the population. In the spring, the Ministry of Justice set up an inter-ministerial committee following the Nets and Se and Hør scandal, which was to look at citizens' data security. When the committee was set up, Professor Søren Sandfeld Jakobsen stated that data leak is an increasingly frequent problem, and he believes that this may be due to the fact that too many people have access to sensitive personal data. From the SF's point of view, it is appropriate to await the conclusion of the government's set-up committee, which is going to look at this. As far as I am aware, this work will be completed before Christmas. As the SF shares both the government's concerns and supports the established committee, it might seem a good idea to have the committee's conclusions in place before we finalise this bill. But I look forward to the further consideration and the many questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151857	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, speaking for Enhedslisten... Nonsense, Liberal Alliance. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111151911	Thank you. The current bill contains three elements, and the Liberal Alliance can support all three elements. The first element concerns the extension of the number of so-called peripheral municipalities, where citizens are entitled to an extended transport allowance. It is now the case that ordinary municipalities are only entitled to a deduction of DKK 1.05. per driving miles above 120 km per day, while in outer municipalities you are entitled to double that, i.e. DKr 2.10. This right to the double transport allowance, also of kilometres over 120 km, should now apply not to 16 municipalities, but to 25 municipalities, and we support that. Then there is the second element, which is that the municipalities should have a greater share of corporate tax revenue. It's rising from 13.4%. today at 15.25%. with this bill. In this way, municipalities will become more interested in having a good business environment and attracting companies because they will have a larger share of corporate tax, and we support that as well. Then there is the third element, which is about exploiting the digital opportunities in the field of taxation, in the sense that where a customer who has to have a loan or has to have advice from the bank in the past should give the bank the tax papers, should go home and find them in the desk drawer, and if you could not find them, then request them from SKAT and then give them to the bank, then you can now use the digital options to allow the customer to obtain the information digitally. This last part of the legislative proposal has been, I think, a number of misunderstandings about in the public debate. Some have believed that banks' access to public information at SKAT will be extended, but in reality it is a question of information that banks have been able to demand from customers for decades. I remember when I had to borrow for a house, how I was asked to make an annual statement and the like, which I would then have to find out in the drawer and give to the bank as a condition for obtaining a loan. That is, of course, what we already have today, namely legislation that ensures that the customer can instead just sign that it is okay for the bank to collect the information digitally. This part of the legislation must then be extended to the extent that it is not only in loan situations but also in advisory situations that the bank can do things digitally, as it can already do with paper, namely ask the customer for the information that the customer can then obtain from SKAT or in the desk drawer and give to the bank. This can now be done digitally to facilitate both the customer's experience of being in the bank, but also the bank's bureaucracy. We cannot object to that. It is our impression that much of the criticism that has been of it is based on misunderstandings, including perhaps on the misunderstanding that the customer should not allow it. Another misunderstanding may have been that as a customer an undertaking is made to have unlimited access to the same information at SKAT, but in fact there is only limited access to information about SKAT and access is linked only to the specific advisory situation or the specific lending situation. So, of course, it must be ensured that the points contained in the draft law that it is only in the specific situations and that it is not unlimited access are also reflected in the text of the law, but it is therefore stated in the observations of the draft law that that is the intention of the letter of the law. We will then keep the government up and see that this is the way it is going to be, but if you only take as a basis the observations of the bill, there is no doubt that the intention of the bill is not to open a barn door to banks' access to private information at SKAT, but only concrete information that the bank can obtain from the customer, concrete information that the bank can already ask the customer to provide on paper today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111152348	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111152355	Thank you. After the Left kindly indicated that K also supports the proposal, I would like to clarify what is behind it. We are in favour of three elements of the proposal: firstly, an extension of the transport allowance; it provides flexibility and mobility in society, and everyone needs that. Secondly, there will be greater incentives for municipalities to ensure a better business environment in relation to corporate tax. We can also support the final element, which will remove bureaucracy and facilitate the transition in the exchange of information between citizens and financial companies. So we can support the proposal from the Conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111152440	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111152452	First of all, I would like to thank you for your strong support for the draft law. I am pleased that a broad majority of parties on both sides of the House will support these initiatives for the Growth Agreement. The bill extends the circle of outlying municipalities with increased transport allowances from 16 to 25. This means that these municipalities will get easier to attract and maintain labour. This is a good and effective link in curbing migration from the outermost municipalities in Denmark. In addition, the draft law contains another element which favours the municipalities. In fact, it is proposed to increase the share of the municipalities in corporate tax in order to increase the financial incentive for municipalities to maintain and attract companies. Finally, the draft law contains rules that make it easier for financial companies and citizens to provide the necessary information for banks to advise citizens and update customer information. This part of the bill has been criticised in the press, and in this respect I think it is worth pointing out that there is nothing new about banks having to know about the customer's finances when they advise the customer or update customer information. It is actually the case that there are rules to that effect, and with the banks' losses during the financial crisis in mind, these are quite sensible rules. The proposal merely gives the customer easier access to providing the bank with information, namely by giving SKAT consent to send information to the bank. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned this in her rapporteur's speech, including a number of specific questions, which I hope I can already uncover a little more. In practical terms, of course, how to use the data differs from bank to bank and from situation to situation. Typical, however, is the fact that what you need is information on income, information on wealth and information on debt. This is the way it is, regardless of whether you are looking for a loan or whether you are looking for advice in the bank. Most often, then, the bank will ask about the latest annual balance sheet, the last three payrolls and information on debts and arrears. This is the reason why the information included in the scheme is annual statement information, it is data from e-income to which pay and transfer income are reported, and it is arrears information. Then there is the question of legal certainty in relation to it, and it can be said that it is the case that the banks can only obtain information on the basis of the consent of the customer. These are information which the banks are already obliged to obtain in accordance with the rules in the field of the FSA, i.e.: following the Order of Good Practice for Financial Activities, on the Management and Management of Financial Institutions, etc. It is therefore merely a question of how the information is obtained. Thus, it is difficult to see that the legal concerns should be that in these circumstances and with the clear explicit consent of the customer, SKAT will provide information to the bank. I have also noted that, of course, questions have been raised as to whether there is real voluntary consent in relation to it, and I must point out that it can already have consequences for a customer under the current rules if he does not want to provide the necessary information to the bank to provide advice or to update the customer information, regardless of whether you then hand over the information, as was mentioned, I think it was Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who said that you can bring that information on paper or whether you give it up via e-tax. If the bank considers that it does not have sufficient information to provide advice, the bank must refrain from advising. If the bank does not believe that the customer information is correct and the customer will not help the bank to obtain correct information, it could also have consequences for the customer, but what we ensure with the proposal here is simply that the customer can provide the relevant information to the bank in an easier way. Also in relation to the question of consent one can say that it is of course best to isolate the consent to be understood in such a way that the customer consents to SKAT and consents are given after the customer has logged into the scheme with his NemID, and only after they have registered this consent with SKAT can the information be transferred to the bank. In addition, the customer will be able to enter his tax folder at any time and see what information and consents have been given and what information has been transferred. Then you might ask, now that the system has been in operation in the field of loan information and is now being extended to include advice, how extensive the application of this is. The scheme started in the fourth quarter of 2012, and then, in that quarter, 38,570 consents were given. So, over 38,000 times, there were Danes who chose to use this option when they had to pass on information to their bank. And in the last quarter, i.e. in the third quarter of 2014, 53,865 times were given a consent to provide information in this way, because you had a specific case, so typically in this case, loan requests where you needed to provide this information. So the system is running and functioning, and it seems to be quite impeccable, even in terms of legal certainty, it is certainly not the case that I have been informed that there are problems in this respect. At present, contracts have been concluded between SKAT and a total of 38 financial and mortgage institutions, which means that not all banking customers can benefit from this, because the prerequisite is that an agreement is made at the specific bank or mortgage institution so that this can happen. But, of course, it is to be expected that there will be a greater interest in being able to take advantage of this. But again, the information is released only if it is the case that the customer gives its explicit consent, and the consent only applies to one request. For that reason, of course, I must also say, for the sake of good order, that the figures I have provided may well cover up the fact that there are individuals who have given more than one consent, both in a specific case, but also because they may be seeking advice in more than one financial institution. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, the SF is more than welcome to also ask written questions so that we can elaborate on it in committee. I will, of course, endeavour to answer questions as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111153247	We'll thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141111153302	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 12 November 2014, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
