ParlaMint-DK_20141106100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Education (Christine Antorini): Bill no. L 56 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions. Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 57 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Steen Gade (SF) and others: Question No. F 6 (What new initiatives does the government intend to take internationally, including in relation to the United Nations and in the practical implementation of Danish development policy, on the basis of the conclusions of the second sub-report of the Fifth Report of the IPCC, which demonstrates an increasingly clear correlation between the consequences of climate change and foreign, development and security policy problems, with particular focus on preventing crises in the wake of change and on practical climate adjustment in the world's poorest and most vulnerable regions?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From members of the Danish Parliament Søren Espersen, Jep Mikkelsen, Annette Vilhelmsen, Henning Hyllested and Thyra Frank, who are on leave, I have been informed that from 8 November 2014 they will be able to meet again in Tinget. Kenneth Kristensen Berths, Mie Bergmanns, Karsten Hønges, Sarah Nørris and Peter Laigaard's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106100113	The debate is open. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106100132	After all, the bill we are considering today is the result of the broad media reconciliation that we entered into in the spring, where all the parties in the Folketing are involved and behind it. If I have to put a word on the spring agreement as such, I would say that it is the word quality. Quality is a password for the agreement we made in the spring, where all parties have got some fingerprints with which we on the Left may not have got all that we could dream of, but where we have made some compromises, yet we have come to the conclusion that we have made a media reconciliation based on quality: a quality in DR's public service offerings; a quality assurance of non-commercial radio and television stations, such as the draft law today. is about; a better rotation on the boards of DR and TV 2 regions, which will ensure better quality on those stations, both on DR and on TV 2 regions. It is not everything in the media conciliation that is translated into legislation, but there is a lot in the media conciliation that benefits the Danes. There are, among other things, in the agreement. (i) to ensure more free choice for the individual in the field of television. On the left side, we would have liked to have gone further, not least in relation to securing the approx. 650,000 Danes living in a rented residence. We would have liked them to have a real free choice in the field of television. A study has now been initiated and we must wait for it, but there is no doubt that we would have liked to have taken the next step in ensuring that the Danes have more free choice in the field of television. One point where the agreement goes further is to release TV 2's channels so that from 1 January on TV 2's platforms all TV 2's channels can be purchased individually. It gives more free choice for the individual, and it also makes it possible to get into a new reality where we recognise that today a lot of Danes get their TV usage via streaming services on the web and not by sitting down on the couch and turning on a TV where the channels are chosen in the order that some programme planners have determined. The time when the big TV packages with fixed channels were what everyone wanted is passé. Today the Danes want far more free choice, and today the Danes stream much more from the web when they want to, what they want to see, and in the way they want to see it, because there is freedom to choose. This, of course, challenges the Danish players in the media market, but on the Left side we do not believe that the answer is to be against it. We believe it is to be better and we believe it is to keep up with developments, ensure a high quality on the public service channels, DR and TV 2, and then let the commercial channels do what they are good at. This enables us to create better and more flexible solutions for the Danes, thereby creating more freedom of choice for the Danes. The left has put a lot of prints on the deal. One of the impressions I would like to highlight is that the public service pool is being strengthened. It is being strengthened both in relation to who can seek it and it is being strengthened in relation to the fact that the regional film funds now have a lot to say in relation to distribution, but it is also being strengthened because we are now giving the opportunity to support what is called vod, i.e. video on demand, streaming services. We provide the opportunity to provide support for good Danish public service content, which is not necessarily broadcast on an ordinary, old-fashioned television channel, but is now also being broadcast on streaming services, where we know in particular that very many of the young people get their TV offers from. After all, the public service channels can do something that commercial channels cannot do. It is both a strength and a challenge, a challenge when the potential is not exploited, and when you instead walk in the footsteps of commercial channels, and a strength when you focus on content-wise delivering quality. That is what we have tried to ensure in the new media conciliation. We would have liked the Left to have seen DR 3 transformed into a progressive net universe. Instead, there is now an improvement and quality assurance of the youth channel DR 3. A committee will also contribute to the future development of the public service and will thus help to ensure that the public service interface follows the new media reality. We think it is a very good thing that the business licence is also abolished as part of the media conciliation and the legislative proposal that we have to deal with today. It is an advantage for small businesses and for entrepreneurs, it is an advantage for dealers who will no longer experience bureaucracy, and it is also an opportunity to ensure that the small entrepreneur, who may already be struggling with a large number of schedules to be submitted to public authorities, can now have a smaller number on the list. It is not much money for a large institution like DR, but for the small entrepreneur it means a great deal that today's bill abolishes the business license. Of course, as I said, the Left has not got all our wishes through, and there are also a large number of implementations of the media agreement over the coming period, but we think that the media agreement and the bill we are discussing today are a good step in the right direction to ensure more quality in the media supply, to ensure more freedom of choice, to ensure that the economy is kept under control around our Danish public service stations, and that is why the Left can back up L 22, which we are discussing here today in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106100658	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106100707	Thank you. All parties in the Folketing are behind the media policy of the future. That's really positive. This creates certainty about the media policy of the future, and we must be proud of that. I believe that the draft law here, L 22, reflects a good balance between the public service channels and the commercial channels. That balance ensures development, ensures quality for both parties, and that is, of course, important and positive. The Danish public service media have a very special role to play in contributing to the democratic debate in Danish society as well as providing opportunities for shared experiences based on Danish values and, unlike other media, they are subject to legal requirements such as: objectiveness and impartiality. We Social Democrats want a Danish Radio where the Danes can have it all, both broad entertainment and current news, both magnificent drama and narrow documentary. We want a Danish Radio for all Danes. We want a Danish Radio, which is wide and good, not a Danish Radio on the scrump. Public service is about all Danes having access to high quality media content without advertising. We'll pay for that under our license. When we have a public service, Denmark's Radio should not focus on sending advertisements, but they can focus on producing good content instead. The media support is one of the things that helps to form a common frame of reference for us Danes. It is a foundation for our democracy. That is why it is important that we strengthen the public service. Our media habits are changing, and more and more people choose for themselves what they want to see when. Therefore, I am also satisfied that we strengthen the public service offer and ensure that we follow with time, again with Danmarks Radio as an example of being on the platforms where the Danes are. We make sure to get as much quality as possible for the licence crowns. Public service must be for everyone, and I am glad that we are strengthening this bill, which the Socialists naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106100948	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106101000	L 22, which we are talking about here today, is, after all, the outcome of the legislative changes that it requires when we have made a media reconciliation, as we did before the summer recess, a media reconciliation in which all parties were involved, and I think it was gratifying that we managed to get all parties involved. I think it is gratifying that we can strengthen media life also regionally and locally, understood in this way that Denmark's Radio should continue to focus strongly on their regional stations and not make cuts there. I also think it is important that we have set out clear guidelines for non-commercial local radios so that they will continue to strengthen their activities in their vicinity. With the agreement that has been made, there are of course also a whole lot of things that we should not change by law, but which we should subsequently change in public service contracts with DR and TV 2 and in other notices. There are, of course, some things on which we agree, and there are also other things that need to be debated. Whatever we agree on, and even though we have now made some demands on Denmark's Radio, it is of course important that the debate on what things Denmark's Radio should and should do in the future never dies. Although a media agreement has now been drawn up and there are four years left for the next one, this does not mean that the debate over the four years is dead. In the Danish People's Party, we still believe that Denmark's Radio should have clear messages about which things to deal with and which things you might have to leave to commercial stations, in order to strengthen the public service concepts and thus also strengthen the things that Denmark's Radio should actually have as a core task. In the Danish People's Party, we are really happy with this agreement that has now been made. I think it was a good course of negotiations that we had over at the Minister for Culture, and I would also like to thank you for that, because I thought the debate was good and we had some good discussions. We are now also going to set up a public service committee to continue working on some of the things I have mentioned, which have also been mentioned in the past by the rapporteur of the Left. We find that exciting, and we also hope that something useful will come out of it; otherwise there is no point in it, and then it will just be a jar of jelly, and I do not think any of the conciliation parties want that. Then I very much agree with what the rapporteur of the Left said about freedom of choice for all and also for citizens of non-profit housing companies. I hope that we will soon be able to talk about the analysis to be carried out in this area. There are a lot of people out there waiting for answers as to whether they will even be free to choose TV channels and television packages in the future. I hope that at some point we can find a solution to this matter as soon as possible. We have talked about this before, and it has been a ball between the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Culture. I hope that we now have a long way to go and can find a solution so that we can also get it off the list of things that we have actually wanted to solve for so many years. But in the Danish People's Party we support L 22 and we are pleased with the cooperation and thank the Minister for the things that she has listened to. There are, of course, things that we had hoped she would have listened to more, but we hope we will come at another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106101338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106101347	Thank you for the floor. Of course, we also support this bill, which one might say is the rather boring implementation of the media agreement, in which I really think there is a lot of swinging and perspective. We have had some very good discussions and very interesting discussions in the conciliation circle, because what we are all well aware of is that the media picture is changing quite a lot at the moment. In fact, we are not really aware of where we will end up in 4, 5, 6 years' time, and of course we can be a driving force, but I also think we have to recognise that this is a market that is moving completely without our help. But that is why I also think it has been very important to use these negotiations to kick up the track for discussions on the future of the public service, the balance and the division of labour between Denmark's Radio, TV 2 for that matter too, the commercial media and the publicist media. But it is a task that is so great and requires so many discussions that it was not something that we could close in the negotiations and that is why we set up a committee. Now it can be said that politicians are very good at setting up committees, and what comes out of them? Not always very much, but I really hope that the work of this committee will lead to some interesting discussions that we can take decisions on the basis of. Of course, one of our main concerns is what the public service of the future is: which platforms should we be present in, what formats should we be present on? I really think that public service will look quite different in 4, 5, 6 years. I think that many of us think that traditional public service is the TV Newspaper at 9:00. 18.30, 21.00, or when it is sent, but I really believe that in the future we will have a completely different public service that will look quite different. But that's why it's also important to find out and agree on that, I think we can do that in a broad circle of Parliaments, what the public service really is. For me, it can be reduced to a very simple thing. It is about qualifying the public debate and it is about creating a common frame of reference. But this can be done in many different ways, and the biggest challenge we have today in the field of public service is that there is a young generation that we are in danger of losing to the commercial media. There is nothing wrong with them sitting and watching the Paradise Hotel on the channels it now appears on. But we must ensure that this qualification of public conversation is not something that dies out with the last generations, but is something that we are getting passed on to the new generation. That's why we think that what Denmark's Radio has done with DR 3 is really interesting. I know it has fallen somewhat to the chest that something is a little too popped and a little too cross-border etc., but we are in a phase where we need to find out how we can reach young people. Of course, it is not just a pop, because it is a question of qualifying the public debate and the public conversation. But I think we'll see brand new formats. I think we will see public service stations mixing blood with commercial stations and publicist media in a completely different way in the future than we have seen in the past. And I look forward to that debate very much. I go into it with a very open mind. I don't think that in 10 years, Denmark's Radio is a big house that isolates itself. I think it is an institution that is in cooperation, close dialogue and in continuous contact with both the publicist media and the commercial media. It is a debate that I look forward to very much, which I think we have got the track up to during the media negotiations and which I really think is the most interesting and perspectiveful in the negotiations we have had. That is why, of course, we support the agreement and also the amendments that are being put forward in this draft law, although in reality it is the least controversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106101752	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106101759	Thank you. Public service is important to stimulate Danish culture and language through among others. Danish-produced drama and film as well as the dissemination of Danish music, art and culture. In addition to providing entertainment, it also strengthens Danish cultural life. At the same time, the public service media have an important role to play in strengthening the democratic capacity of citizens. This requires that the public service media constantly innovate their news, documentary and knowledge dissemination and of course are on all the platforms where the Danes are. Sometimes I hear some people say that Denmark's Radio is just freewheeling and that what they do is almost free. We must remember that it is the Danes who pay, and that is also why the Danes must have what they pay for. That is why we in the SF welcome the media agreement that was concluded before the summer holidays and support the proposed bill. We are very sorry that the government chose to abolish the business licence. This is something that means quite massive economic cuts in DR. But we are also pleased that the agreement, among other things. ensure more Danish-produced programmes for young viewers, including more topical programmes for young people, so as to strengthen the social interest of young people. Then we are also very happy that there will be better disabled services, so that people with visual or hearing disabilities also get something for their license money; that a public service committee will be set up to help equip Danish public service for the future media world; that DR can continue to deliver high quality on all platforms. The viewers are entitled to the public service they pay for in different formats. This also applies when they want to stream or use a user-friendly app to watch broadcasts on the web. When viewers move to new platforms, of course DR must keep up. This is the only way to ensure that public service is not a niche product for the elite, but it is precisely something that binds us together. We are also very pleased that more money was given for Danish film production and more support for learning games for young people and children. The specific legislative proposal is an implementation of the agreement we reached before the summer recess. This means concrete new legislation in relation to the public service pool, the composition of the boards and the business license. In SF, we think it is positive that the public service pool can now provide grants for programmes on video on demand. We think it is a good idea to limit the length of time that can be re-elected to DR and the boards of regional TV 2 companies, just as it is positive that there will now be a hearing on the annual public service statements. It will strengthen democracy. But, of course, there are also things in such an agreement that we are not very happy about. I would like to add just a few words to the abolition of the business licence. After all, we repeatedly asked how much the abolition of jobs will give. The big argument was, of course, that abolishing the licence for business businesses would create a great many jobs. We never got an answer to that. We'd have wanted a kid discount. This means that young people living under the same roof do not each have to pay a licence. But a majority chose to say that it is far better that it is the young people, not Carlsberg, who have to pay the 962 DKK that a business licence costs. But as I said, when you make an agreement, there are both things you don't like and things you really like. It is a compromise and that is why we actually support the overall legislative proposal, but I just wanted to point out that when you make such an agreement, that is not all you think is a dance on roses, and it has not been. Unfortunately, we can also see now how the cuts hit Denmark's Radio, but there were not many at these meetings that sort of swung with the tab and said that more money had to be raised for Danmarks Radio. SF fought with Enhedslisten, and we managed to raise funds so that the cuts would not be as hard as we were worried they would be. But all in all, it is a good agreement if you ignore these things and we look forward to folding together, for example. the public service pool further out as to what the future will look like for our public service media.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106102245	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Lars Dohn as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106102252	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr is prevented from attending today, so my role will be to read the speech he would have given. This proposal concerns the partial implementation of the media conciliation for 2015-2018, and part of the proposal is to make it clear that we have a public service pool which can provide support not least for TV 2 and that this will be extended to video on demand services as long as the programmes are subsequently broadcast on a traditional television channel. This is an excellent extension, while at the same time the public service pool must also support programmes for children and young people, and 25% are allocated. of the funds in the pool for these programmes. In addition, the proposal provides for a re-election of DR and TV 2 regional boards. This is about a rotation principle, which we know very well in the Enhedslisten. We also know it from several boards and also from the Folketing, where people most of all grow firm. And the new thing is that elections to both DR and TV 2 regions can only be repeated once. All in all, we can make sure that the board can match the management while we can get the renewal. It is, of course, part of the democratisation of the large television stations and, following that, the proposal also gives more influence to the Radio and Television Board in assessing the fulfilment of public service contracts by broadcasters, and it must have a hearing among the relevant stakeholders. We can look at one of the current cases: DR has a public service contract that contains their four orchestras, including the Entertainment Orchestra, yet DR's management has sent light notes to the orchestra's members. I believe and hope that there will be an end to the exercise of power by the DR leadership with the new influence for the mentioned and the relevant stakeholders. After all, the bill also contains the new scheme for non-commercial local radios, which means more local and own production, and at the same time there is a limitation on the number of permits granted. It is a step forward if it means that local radios get more listeners all over the country so that it does not become a capital phenomenon. I think we need to keep up with this, and perhaps we need to correct it as we go along. Finally, I would like to say that the abolition of the media licence for business is a really bad proposal. The fact is that it is a proposal which is the result of the so-called growth plan of the government. That is why I take no responsibility for this, which in fact does not provide more jobs, almost quite the opposite. I can only refer to the comments made by the Ministry of Finance, which, in reply to me, says that it does not mean more jobs. And I would add that it means approx. 80 million kr. less in licence fees, which means fewer jobs in DR and TV 2 regions. I will also work in the future for us to create a fairer economic system instead of the licensing system, where the poor pay as much as the rich. As I have said, this draft law is the implementation of the media agreement, which contains very good and has a small part due to other parts of the government's cooperation with the bourgeois parties, namely the so-called growth plan. All in all, we will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106102643	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106102656	One of the things that makes the media sector one of the most exciting areas at all to deal with politically is that it is an area where citizens run faster with their feet than we in this Parliament can find a way of running. When we make legislation, it turns out that things are really going much faster. This was seen in the last media conciliation, and I think that will actually be seen in this conciliation. The Liberal Alliance is in the conciliation process for the coming years, and I am pleased about that, although there are a number of issues that we on the Liberal Alliance would have liked to see moved even more quickly than is the case here. I still think that the media conciliation we are having here is a media reconciliation based on many of the assumptions of the past. In this conciliation, we would have liked even more freer choice to be made in the area of television, we have come a small step away. We would have liked to have looked at whether we could not do anything about the whole licensing problem; now it is being abolished in the form of a business licence, but we think we should have a fundamental debate about: what is the licence in a modern society, what is it to cover and where are the citizens' options to choose from? But the perspective that in the period we are looking into now becomes really, really interesting to look at is basic: what is public service in a modern society? A committee is now being set up, and of course we support this, but I would venture to say that I simply do not think they will come up with anything that is going to drive a lot, because the citizens choose with their feet, they vote with their feet. In the old days, public service was defined as being and providing in the service of the people. But in the old days, which are not really many years ago, it was the case that newspapers made newspapers and television made television. And you didn't have those interfaces where you really come in conflict with each other. Now we have a media area where the number of private players has exploded, the media supply has exploded, and this also means that our classic public service institutions go in and compete with the private market in a completely different way than was the case when DR had a monopoly and we had 156 newspaper titles in Denmark, which we had in 1925 when Danmarks Radio was founded. Now you go in and compete. DR delivers news production, and they deliver it on the same platforms as the classic media do. What do we do in this situation? Because is it a task for the state to support the delivery of something that the market can just as well deliver? Now it may sound as if I think we should close the DR. I do not think that at all, because Denmark is a small country, it is a small language area and there is simply content that the private market cannot and will not deliver. So I still think that we should have a public service institution like Denmark's Radio. But I would very much like us to have a debate, including political ones: what is it that we have to deliver? We know that the market has moved away too when we speak the electronic media from that one, for example. We did flow television, where we sat in front of the screen at 6.30 p.m. every night and watched television, and then we watched television until they closed, because that was the only thing that could be seen on a screen for citizens and consumers to pick up much more, that is to say bring it in on demand. They see what they want, hear and read what they want whenever they want. And that also means that this is a completely new situation. What I think should be looked at when defining the public service of the future is, firstly, that the world has changed completely from when we first started talking about public service, and secondly, what is that content, and what is that quality that needs to be made available in a small country like Denmark because the market cannot or will not deliver it? The great challenge for public service providers like Danmarks Radio is not to deliver the same as all the others deliver. It is to deliver a content that is capable of bringing together citizens, not by pushing it down their throats, but by simply delivering the format in terms of content, delivering a content that makes citizens actually want to subscribe to that kind of content themselves. I think we will be discussing this very much over the next four years. I am glad that the Liberal Alliance is in the conciliation so that we can be involved in the discussion, but I still have the conviction that the citizens will go faster than we can go. One last thing I want to mention is that I don't understand why it's not part of this media settlement that TV 2 is being put up for sale. We have been waiting for this for years, and although I have asked several times, I have not been able to hear a single politician make an argument as to why TV 2 should continue to be owned by the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103254	After all, we are discussing here today a proposal on which we all almost agree. It is the case that when we have a media reconciliation, it needs to be followed up with some legislation, and that is why we, too, from Conservatives, will support this bill, which is a follow-up to the agreement that we have reached. Nevertheless, it must have a few words on the way, because negotiations often reflect the fact that we are not all equally in agreement from the outset, and then we find a compromise. And, of course, compromises have been found here in various ways, compromises with which we, the Conservatives, are satisfied. However, it is worth pointing out in this debate, too, where we have each been in that debate, because, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we must have a continuing debate on public service companies in the years to come. For the Conservative People's Party, there have been two main considerations. One is, of course, that we live at a time when commercial television channels and radio channels also fill a very large part of the media picture and also fill the needs of entertainment, news and everything else that we can experience on television and on radio. There must be room for this, and Denmark's Radio should not grow so large and be so dominant that it limits the possibilities of commercial channels. Conversely, the second consideration on the part of Conservatives is that it is important that we have a strong public service channel in Denmark. It is important that we have a culturally-bearing social institution such as Denmark's Radio, which can help to maintain the common values, the formation, I had almost said, as we have in our society. The values built up through generations must be carried on to future generations, and Denmark's Radio has an important and heavy obligation to be the very cultural institution of society, to be a public service company. That is the balance, and it is one of the things we have then discussed in the negotiations that have taken place. How far should one go in one direction or another? How do you make room for the commercial channels? And I think we have found a reasonable balance in that. But there is a rapid development in the media sector. We all use the media in a completely different way now than we did a few years ago, and that is why we need to adapt our view of, not least, public service companies as developments take place. That is why it is reasonable that we have now decided that in the coming years we should assess the role of public service companies in society, and a committee is now being set up to provide at least a basis for the discussion that we will then also have towards the next media conciliation to be concluded. In all the balance that has been found, I find that one of the most important sentences in the media settlement is the one where it says that Denmark's Radio should not compete, and now I quote:..." DR must not compete with private operators where it does not serve a public service purpose. ▪ So, it is important that Denmark's Radio should be where the market is not It is an important signal, also an important signal to Denmark's Radio and the Danish Radio management that there is the limit that they should not be where it does not serve a public service purpose. There must be room for private players. That is also why we are currently having a discussion on the DR Entertainment Orchestra. I believe that the management of Denmark's Radio has gone far beyond what we have decided in the media agreement and, moreover, has taken a decision which cannot be implemented without changing the public service contract between the Minister for Culture and Denmark's Radio. But it is an expression of a lack of understanding of the role of Danish Radio when you choose an area where you hit exactly the core of public service, and remove the Entertainment Orchestra, but maintain a wide range of activities that in reality compete with the private commercial channels. This is a balance that we will also be discussing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103802	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103805	After all, it is nice to experience the commitment that has come from the bourgeois parties in relation to the very, very important cultural institution that the orchestra is. I would like to stress this point from this point of view. But just for the sake of all those who are listening, I would like to hear: was there a single time, one time, during the negotiations, when the Conservative People's Party asked for more money for Denmark's Radio, so that the cuts were not so hard, and one time when Conservatives said not to abolish the business license?
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103842	No, I can guarantee that there wasn't, and I actually think that before being asked, you know the answer. We didn't want any more money for Denmark's Radio. We have wanted to set limits for Denmark's Radio's activities, because Denmark's Radio is becoming more and more dominant, and it is important that there is also room for private commercial channels. That is why we have not asked for any more money for Denmark's Radio, on the contrary. Nor have we wanted to say no to the proposal to remove the business licence, of course not. But Danmarks Radio has a huge budget, and of course you can find the money in other ways. What I am criticising is that precisely what is at the heart of public service activities, with the savings that have been made or which are planned to be implemented, is being hit. I hope that we can prevent it from being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103931	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106103933	Then I would like to ask another question. The rapporteur is obviously completely surprised by the fact that if people are asked to run faster for less money, it can of course have consequences. After all, the rapporteur wanted Denmark's Radio to take a number of other decisions. So I would just like to hear: has one time during the negotiations had a desire to abolish the Board of Directors of Danmarks Radio, which normally stands for the approval of these decisions by the Executive Board, or has the Conservative People's Party imagined that we would begin to tell Christiansborg that it is not here, but there, that they should save? I'd like to hear that, too. So, Conservatives think we should sit in here and decide how and how it should be? I personally am very sorry for the decision that Denmark's Radio has made, so I would like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104022	I would normally never interfere in how to exercise one's discretion and what decisions are made within the economic framework of Denmark's Radio. But we politicians represent the owners of Denmark's Radio, and sometimes there are some fundamental decisions that we as politicians must be allowed to say that we do not think are right. These are major decisions in principle. After all, we have already mixed up with the Entertainment Orchestra, because when the public service agreement between the Danish Radio and the Minister for Culture states that there must be that entertainment orchestra, we have already intervened in it. It says that it is politically determined that it should be there, and then we may also say that we do not want it removed. In any case, I will allow myself to do so, regardless of what the Socialist People's Party might think of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104114	Sir. Morten Marinus for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104117	I think that this is an interesting question which Conservatives' rapporteur is getting here from the SF rapporteur. I would just like to know whether the Conservative rapporteur can confirm that Denmark's Radio has saved much more money in their savings plan, as they have put forward, than that contained in the efficiency requirement put forward by politicians, and whether the Conservative rapporteur can confirm that the additional measures we have asked for from the political side of Denmark's Radio have actually been honoured by giving them 30 million. kr. additional of excess licence funds plus then 6.4 million. kr. Every year to deal with these extra measures. Can the Conservative rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104158	Well, I'm glad to have the exact question as they say. I can confirm that this is the case. After all, we have said that there are some areas in which we want to strengthen our efforts and then money has been allocated for it. So, yes, I can completely confirm what is being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104214	Sir. Morten Marinus will say no more. Then I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur and give the floor to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104228	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law here at first reading, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank them for the cooperation between the media rapporteurs and the Ministry of Culture during the period in which we have negotiated the media cases. These negotiations have led to a very good framework for the media covered by the agreement. Then I would also like to sign for all the speakers who show the really good atmosphere that has been in the negotiations; although we come from eight different parties, we have gathered together to find the best possible framework in the compromises we have made through the negotiations. So this is a very good example of Danish popular rule. Thank you. After all, a large number of things have been touched on in the media agreement during the rapporteur's speeches. After all, the draft law is about far less than all the things covered by the agreement, because not all the parts bring about a need for a change of law. I would just like to mention those that have been specifically dealt with in the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. First there is the public service pool, and that is the pool where there is the possibility that different media can apply for subsidies to make different products, especially films and TV programmes. The public service pool is eligible for funding for the production of Danish public service programmes and it is also introduced that television programmes can be subsidised on video on demand services; this is the new one. This can make it more attractive for a number of the new video on demand services to initiate or take the initiative to participate in the financing of Danish television drama in particular. There has been broad support for this. It is also proposed that access to the public service pool to provide support for radio programmes should be abolished to date. This makes good sense, as it has proved very difficult to use the funding that has just been earmarked for radio. Secondly, there is the introduction of a limitation of access to the re-election and re-election of members of the Board of Directors of the Danish Radio and of the regional TV 2 companies. I think that is also important, because in doing so we have given the possibility of continuous renewal of the boards of directors, and we can do so in a way that we also maintain continuity in the board of directors. This will now only apply to the Danish Radio Board for the period 2019-2022. Finally, I would like to point out the introduction of a new scheme for non-commercial local radios, with increased focus on quality and local content. Based on the extended authorisations proposed here, it is the intention, with effect from 1 January 2016, to implement a new scheme for non-commercial local radios which corresponds to the principles we now have on local connection. And the new scheme for non-commercial television, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, has been a model for what is now going to apply to local radios. I should like to stress that the current system for local commercial radios is continuing under the known conditions. Then, I think, all the rapporteurs have mentioned the Committee on Public Service Affairs. This is not part of the draft law, but I would like to comment on it. It is true that we are at a turning point, which is very significant, in the media sector, because technology is ticking away as it does, and our habits as citizens and users of the media are changing incredibly quickly. That is why there is a new form of competition and a new kind of challenge, and fortunately we could agree to set up a public service committee with professional capabilities to illustrate what the future will look like if we still want a public service in general in the media in one way or another. None of us can say anything about how this is going to happen and what we are being inspired to do. I just think it is really important that we have a common basis for discussing these very complex things and that we can also get involved in or involve the experiences and developments that are taking place internationally. So I look forward to having a form of dialogue with the relevant committee on an ongoing basis, which has, of course, been given the opportunity to involve the politicians in their deliberations and what they achieve. So it is not a process that just waits; it is something that we actually tackle relatively quickly. And that is why we can also play a part in the public debate, in terms of what we imagine public service can be in the future: how we can define it and how we can ensure that all citizens in Denmark regardless of age, background, geographical location, etc. are able to continue to renew and develop their knowledge of what is happening in society around us, what it is for some things that affect us, and about the decisions that Denmark is going to participate in the world. We are living in a time of rapid change and there we must try to find a basis for enabling citizens to participate in those changes on a qualitative basis. So I would like, in those words, to acknowledge the support that has been given to the draft law, and I look forward to constructive discussion in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104752	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104809	The debate is open. Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106104832	Thank you. L 23, as the bill here states, follows the political agreement on sport concluded in May between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. So it is a broad agreement that has been reached where all the parties of the Folketing are involved. The bill thus acts as an implementation of this voting agreement that was concluded. The bill is intended to ensure a redistribution of the distribution funds to sports organisations and a change in which organisations are to receive grants. The change means that Anti Doping Denmark, Sport Event Denmark and the Sports Institute of Analysis receive money and that the funding of the Horse Race SportsFonds is gradually reduced over a number of years. Let me start with the positive side of this bill and this vote agreement that we have jointly concluded. I think it is very important that we get it in place that we strengthen Anti Doping Denmark's efforts in the fight against doping. After all, we all know and have heard scary examples of what doping can bring, and that is why it is also one of the important and fundamental values of our sports world, which in this way we are also helping to ensure by continuing to combat doping as much as possible. In addition to this, the draft law also strengthens the Sport Event Denmark. So we now have the opportunity to continue the good work that we are already doing, to attract, organise and develop major international sporting events, which we hope will continue to attract a great many spectators, and we hope that this will help to influence developments in both growth and jobs in these areas. These are some of the things I, as a Left politician, think it is nice that we jointly got a line under. We agreed that it was important to strengthen that area. Then, of course, there have also been concerns about the cuts that we have had to find in connection with this vote agreement. I would say, then, that it is horse racing, it is horse sport that we have jointly decided to cut back on. However, I would also like to stress that, fortunately, in that agreement, we had a fine stair model, which means that it is not already from January that we are removing 30 million. kr., but that the reduction takes place step by step, and thus from January it is 15 million. kr. to be cut down in horse racing. In addition to that, I think there is one thing that I am really, really happy that we got with the vote agreement. It is the agreement that the horse sport will now be able to escape, as we actually say in everyday speech, a wish that the horse sport has had for several years. We helped to fight to get through this, and it became part of the joint voting agreement that a text has simply now been inscribed that we should work on a solution where a possible joint Nordic gambling company can be established. At any rate, this is one of the things I know has been at the top of the list of wishes for horse sport, which is why I am very pleased that it has now been written into the vote agreement. Of course, there have also been concerns in the ranks of the Left, and this is still the case here about the bill itself. That is why I would like to say from the platform here today that some of the things I would like to fight for during the committee procedure itself are that it becomes visible in the report and is made clear that the equity of the horse racing fund, which is about 42 million. kr. today, can also be used if necessary. So it is now the case that the Horse Race Financing Fund, which is the one that distributes funds among the trotting lanes, has about 42 million. kr. equity. I would like to make it that I am putting pressure on there to be able to use some of the means, possibly during this process, in which we are in the process of finding out whether we can succeed in releasing horse-race. So, yes, there are still concerns, and we can hear that, too, there is today in the Palace Square, and that is, of course, something that we should take seriously, and I think we do too. Among other things: I, together with the chairman of the committee, have also made an agreement that, of course, during the committee procedure, we will hold various meetings where we can have various questions put to the various parties concerned. So there is concern, but as I also said at the outset, Bill No. L 23 of course, the implementation of the vote agreement in which we in the Left are involved and which we helped to draw up and in which, in fact, I think we had a very good vote agreement. As I said, of course, for this reason we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106105432	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106105449	Thank you. We made an agreement on 6 May this year, and I expressed in a press release with other sports rapporteurs: the Socialists have only reason to be happy with the new agreement. The agreement is as broad as possible in political terms as possible, ensuring the long-term nature of sport and the organisations around sport. The organisations have an extremely good grasp of what is happening in sport throughout the country. I wish them every success. At the same time, we are lifting the necessary areas as the analysis has made clear, and there will be a political opportunity to support necessary urgent action in the field of sport. • All parties in the Danish Parliament are part of a new sports policy agreement. It's really nice; it's constructive, and it's a recognition to the many people who work either as employees, as volunteers or just as participants in sports in every corner of Denmark. Now we have here a bill to implement the agreement we have reached. Some changes need to be made as to who gets money from the distribution funds for sport. There must be some changes in relation to the boards of certain selected public and self-governing institutions in the field of sport, and there must be changes in relation to Anti Doping Denmark's company and its territory. I would like to mention a few points which are very important for sport and sport in Denmark. There is the fight against doping. We have discussed the issue of doping many times in this Chamber over the last few years in both sport, sport and elite sport in Denmark. We give more muscles to work against doping. We also make it clear that here in Denmark, despite being a small country, we can accommodate large sporting events, that we become the window, and that we create the motivation for increased participation in Denmark, by seeing that exciting events are being held here in Denmark. It is conducive to both sport and sport, and it is also encouraging for this window to show Denmark ahead. We've focused on association sport. The sport of association is what kisses it all together in clubs and associations. They are very good at getting a lot of people to participate, and I think that we are clearly clarifying this sport policy agreement. This also applies to the elite sport, which has Team Denmark, who is in charge of those we send out to the world arenas for the big competitions. It is a matter of having as talented and as good athletes as possible. We have grasped the opportunity now to make a professionalisation of the boards of the self-serving institutions, so that we in Anti Doping Denmark, Sport Event Denmark, Local and Construction Fund, Idan I am very pleased, as a Social Democrat, that we also found the means for there to be a conversion pool so that sport policy here at Christiansborg can face up to new challenges that might appear; that we have some money in the box so that we can act quickly. It's really, really good. And I am pleased that we have also agreed in the agreement that we should hold a sports policy hearing at the latest every two years, a theme meeting where we are discussing sports policy in Denmark with everyone who is interested in it. We have missed that. Then there's the economy. My colleague from the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, has said where the money comes from. There is a reduction in the subsidy for horse racing's Financing Fund over the next 4 years. But we have also said from the political side that we want horse sport in Denmark all the best. We have also said that we will be incredibly aware of what is going on politically, and this has been the reason why a committee has been set up with members from the Horse Race Sports Financing Fund and Danske Game, which must look very quickly at new funding opportunities in relation to horse racing. And we have said that if it turns out that there are no new sustainable funding options, we will again have a political debate on the situation. I have taken the initiative that next Wednesday, in the Committee on Culture, I have done so as chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, we are holding a thematic meeting with all the stakeholders in the field of horse sport, and that we are helping to create a dialogue and hopefully an understanding of the possibilities, but that we also have a voice on the challenges expressed because of the reduction in the subsidy. We in the Socialist Group are very much aware of this, and we want horse sport to reach the same heights that horse sport has in terms of gambling in Norway and Sweden. It is a very good agreement and I am glad that all eight parties are behind it. This will give us the long-term benefit that sport and sport in Denmark deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karin Nødgaard as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110053	Thank you. To live an active life, where exercise and sport are part of it, there is no doubt that it contributes to a healthy life. This has always been the case, as a starting point at least. Unfortunately, in this area too, problems have arisen over recent decades which could not have previously been imagined to cast shadows over the otherwise so many positive aspects of sport. I am thinking very much of what I called the ghost of doping in previous debates. Furthermore, there is also the problem of match fixing, which has recently crept into the media's sport coverage as a perhaps even greater threat to sport. We must bear this in mind, as I believe that some of the means we spend on sport can be used in the future as well. There is no doubt that, despite these unbeings, sport must be supported more or less, and there is a broad political interest in that. And for the good of sport and society, I also think it is important that there are many parties, and preferably all, that we see in this case with the vote agreement on the future economy of sport that is taking place. A message is sent about what is the economic scenario in the years ahead in relation to the means of distribution for sport purposes. It can be difficult for some beneficiaries of these when there are reductions, and there may be others who are dissatisfied with the focus on allocating funds to areas that may not have so much to do with the more physical sport. Then I would like to make a few comments on several of the areas and beneficiaries of the funds and on the reactions that have occurred since we entered into the agreement in early summer. When it has been decided to strengthen the fight against doping, it is linked to the fact that this is an area which we must ensure does not escalate further and ends up becoming a slaff for some athletes and some backers who, for shitty mammon, will destroy the positive that is about to be doing sport, both at exercise and at elite level. Denmark is a country where there is already a great deal of expertise in this area, but there is a need to strengthen it and it supports the Danish People's Party. Gathering on sport has a lot of derived and positive side benefits that can be difficult to appreciate, but when you look at what the Sport Event Denmark has succeeded in attracting and organising major international sporting events in recent years, there is reason to ensure further work, and we do so with this bill with a permanent grant. It is not only for the elite, but also for the people as a whole. I myself have witnessed several of these events and can see that they really attract the general public and that subsequently there are, in fact, some, perhaps especially children and young people, who choose to pursue a given sport. Team Denmark is also receiving funds to help ensure continued efforts to strengthen talent development in Denmark. For the Danish People's Party, the fact that Danish School Sports is given resources is very important. It is certainly a small amount, but I think it is an amount that will actually make a difference, especially now that the reform of the primary school is to be implemented and more exercise is on the agenda in the primary school. The Danish People's Party is also concerned that the voting agreement agreed to set up a pool for other sports purposes. sports areas which have otherwise found it difficult to find a foothold. Since the bill was submitted for consultation, there have been a number of inquiries to us politicians from groups who are somehow involved in horse racing and the horse business. I have held meetings, and in many ways it has been quite constructive to engage in dialogue with stakeholders, including in committee. I would like to make it clear that in the negotiations it has been very important for the Danish People's Party to reduce the proposed savings on horse sport as much as possible. It is my hope that with the reduction that has now been proposed and which starts with the 15 million. kr. In 2015, it will be possible for horse sports and Danske Games to establish a collaboration and subsequently establish a joint Nordic gambling company. In fact, I also understand that many stakeholders are interested in this and that they also believe in the project, and I think that is very positive. But apparently it has taken a little longer than expected for the parties to initiate this dialogue, and that is why the announcement from some has been that it can be difficult to cope with it financially as early as New Year. I therefore hope, of course, that HFF will take a positive view of using some of its own funds to compensate. However, since it is a self-serving institution, the decision lies there, just as it is under the auspices of the decision, where and how the reduction should be implemented. As the chairman of the Committee on Culture has just mentioned, several meetings have already been initiated, and the Danish People's Party is looking forward to participating in them. And, of course, we also look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110555	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mie Bergmann as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110604	The radical rapporteur has been prevented today, and that is why I have been allowed to give the speech on the bill here, which, as we have just heard, concerns doping-free sport and the distribution of profits from lotteries and horse and dog racing. The bill proposes a redistribution of the distribution funds to sport and proposes changes in the composition of boards in selected public self-owned institutions in the field of sport and a change in Anti Doping Denmark's activities. As the other rapporteurs have said, this is an area which is quite crucial, but it is horse racing in particular, with which some critical comments have been made. The Financing Fund of horse racing feels that the bill is a major change, and they feel that it is a major change in the negative direction. But if we look at what you get from subsidies like DGI children and young people and what you get as a member of the horse race, then we can see that there is a huge difference there. All in all, it is all about re-prioritising the state funds that are given for the benefit of sport, and the Radical Left can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110722	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106110736	SF's usual rapporteur is prevented from attending today. Sport is more than physical activity and using your body; sport also helps create diverse communities. By being part of a sports association, children and young people and adults gain experience of what it means to be part of a democracy and a social community with room for personal development and commitment to a common interest. Sport and association life is important because it teaches us to be part of a community where we develop our democratic values and where we learn to make decisions together. As part of an association, both the personal and social values that are also useful in other situations are strengthened or may be in the labour market. In the SF, we welcome the agreement on sports policy which we jointly adopted in the Danish Parliament this spring; it creates a better framework for sport policy. Among other things: The Institute of Sport's Analysis and its work on sport in Denmark are secured funds from the Ministry of Culture, and we are pleased about that. We also believe in the SF that combating the use of doping in the sports and sports environments is an important battle to take. Doping is harmful to the body, but doping is also harmful to the concept we understand in sports and sports. Too many times doping has replaced human talent. Sport is about the human body and what it is capable of exercising. SF believes that it is important for everything in the world to ensure a healthy sports environment that doping should not be part of. We are pleased that the bill puts into practice the good ideas that lie in the spring voting agreement to strengthen Anti Doping Denmark's work for a healthy and doping-free sport culture. We think it is positive that the draft law helps to promote sport in the country, among other things. by ensuring boards of sports associations, which are resourceful and have the right skills to strengthen sports environments, for the benefit of all. And we believe that the allocation of extra funds for sport in general is sensible, as the Financing Fund for horse racing has so far received disproportionate amounts of the annual distribution funds in statutory grants. If the racetracks are to receive more support, this must be done as local business support and not as cultural support. Overall, therefore, in the SF, we believe that this is a good sports agreement and that this is a sensible legislative proposal, and we look forward to helping in the future to draw up the sports policy guidelines which we hope will pave the way for more cross-cutting sport policy initiatives in many different areas. There are, among other things: We need to think much more about sport in preventive health work, in urban planning, in social work and in business policy, and we need to continue to ensure both diversity and democratic participation in sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106111053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lars Dohn as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106111101	Thank you. I think it's the day of the temps today. I shall read the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhrs, speak up. After all, this is a legislative proposal that will give effect to our joint sports agreement of May this year. It is about the distribution of profits from lottery as well as horse and dog racing. We have made an agreement on the distribution of approx. 1 billion kr. in the field of sport, and we must be aware that it is small change that we have changed in the distribution. The main beneficiaries are DIF and DGI, which will in future receive more than 1⁄2 billion. kr. But we have strengthened our efforts against doping and found new money for the Sport Event Denmark and the Sports Analysis Institute and more money for Team Denmark. At the same time, we have found some money for a transfer pool to sports policy lines, which can be used in future initiatives in sport. It is not so bad when we have not spent more money on the overall agreement. The money has come from a slightly smaller grant to DIF and DGI, but at the same time they also receive indirect grants through the grants from Team Denmark and Sport Event Denmark. Those who also have to pay are horse racing, which has so far received a large subsidy compared to the number of sportsmen. I think we should take more money from the horse race, but it was a compromise that was good enough for us. We must also look at the fact that the Financing Fund for Horse Race Sports has a very high level of equity, and the fact is that if they want to carry on all their courses, they can use a small amount of equity. It seems they don't want to use their own money to carry on all the lanes, so they're gonna close two lanes. I would like to stress that this is not due to our agreement; it is due only to the decisions of the Financial Fund. On top of this, we have decided that the horse races will have the opportunity to build their own games, possibly together with other horse games in the Nordic countries, not least the Swedish game. This is a good sports agreement, which is now being implemented with this bill. First of all, I would like to emphasise that anti-doping is not just about punishing individual practitioners who are tempted by leaders, doctors, etc. The agreement states that Anti Doping Denmark needs more resources to unravel the backers in cooperation with the police. I think it would be better to combat the harmful drugs by tackling the root of the problem rather than just going after the athletes. It is also good that we have been given funding for the Sport Event Denmark, that we have been stressed that, in addition to being about major sports events at the elite level, it is also about broad sport, so that we ordinary athletes can be at our slightly lower level. Finally, I should like to dwell on the aims of sport policy. There is too little money to develop sport in Denmark. Firstly, we must develop sport for those who are at the edge of society. It's about the homeless who have been organized in OMBOLD. They lack money because they lose the support they have been able to obtain through the Ministry of Social Affairs. It means a lot when the homeless play ball; I helped play ball with them. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, this is about; I'm not that athletic, so it does something where they won 10-1. Some others to be supported, those war veterans who have suffered psychological damage. DIF would like to organize them for sports. We know that it means a lot to them that they get out among other athletes and they sometimes get better. Not least, we must save sport from the pervasive problem of matching. This is an international problem where we must take the lead in international sports organisations. I hope and believe that, as parties behind the Sports Agreement, we will soon be called to a meeting to translate the targets. With these words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106111523	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106111533	Thank you. Perhaps I should point out that I am not an alternate for anyone; I am, in fact, rapporteur in this area just for the sake of good order. Now it is the case that the elements of this bill are now being mentioned, so I do not need to repeat them. This area is an area that is surrounded with great interest. We can see that, because today the horse sport has almost moved into the Palace Square. There have been redistributions in the past, which have been surrounded with great interest, and everyone knows that it is virtually impossible to change the allocation key and at the same time make everyone happy. That's the way it is. It is therefore also the case that it is extremely rare for a government or, for that matter, a minister of culture to take up this issue on his own initiative, because it often and often causes problems. Here, of course, the forerunner is the fact that part of the game was liberalised in 2010 and it was noted that it had to be evaluated in 2014 and that is what is happening now. It is, of course, an important piece of legislation that has a lot more to do with than many legislations have here from this Chamber. If you look at the list of beneficiaries of profits, you can see that there are 800 associations and organisations that receive funds from it • all sorts of shades of volunteering, i.e. people who by themselves involve themselves in creating values for themselves and for others, managers and trainers etc. That is where we give a hand to voluntary Denmark through this law. That is why it is incredibly important how to deal with it and treat it. One thing is that we are then adjusting today, but I think it should actually be said from this platform now that the development of the source of funding at the moment is negative, and that is why these voluntary organisations and associations, which we agree to praise and congratulate on this, are in fact going through a weakened time. So you can almost say that we are discussing corners here, while the source of revenue is being weakened at the moment. The latest legislation meant that these beneficiaries were given by the monopolized games, and the liberalised games were such a different class, not so fine, and then perhaps that money had to go elsewhere. There is also a corporate tax from Danske Spil, which goes into the Treasury. Developments are negative at the moment and there is nothing that seems to do that can be reversed. Those who understand it mark that just the opportunity to launch new games is virtually exhausted. We are all familiar with developments over the past many years. When the lotto game came when the scratching game came, it got a proper boost up, and there's not really anything on the way that can boost it. Therefore, we just have to see that the curve that is negative will continue over the next few years. I believe that the government will have to look seriously at whether this development is sustainable in relation to voluntary Denmark. Now there are fine financial law negotiations at the moment, in which some parties are involved, and one could take such an appropriate interest in them, those who are now doing so, those who have been invited in this context, because there one could in fact simply ease corporate tax on Danish Games and thus allow more money to go to profit-takers to correct the downward curve, which I see is a bigger problem than what might have come out of this bill today. In fact, I believe that we should discuss this development and the concern that lies in allowing ourselves to sit with our hands in our laps, while at the same time the whole of the voluntary sector is going through a period of time which weakens their ability. If it weakens engagement in voluntary Denmark, it will be expensive for society elsewhere, and therefore there is reason to point this out here, and I very much hope that it is possible that the Minister of Culture and the government will take an interest in that area, for this negative development in the wake of this. We cannot solve this with this legislation. Then it is that the redistribution here, which strengthens a number of areas, the fight against doping and major sporting events, etc., has been mentioned, and that is fine, and the problem that has then come to the surface is that the money should be taken from somewhere, and it is then the horse sport's financing fund that is being reduced. If you look at the history of the whole area playing horses in Denmark, you see that this is an area that has undergone major changes over the years, where you have had your own game, and then there have been competing games, and then you have changed taxes etc. We can see in other countries that there is more interest in games on horses than the tradition that is in Denmark. That is why it is right, and that is why a mandate has been written to look at how to establish a cooperation and thus establish a game on horses that can finance it in the future. We believe that it is true that they have been taken out of the key and then have to find their own legs. We appeal to Danske Games to help you find a good solution for horse sports. This is not where it should be found, and that is why we fully support this legislative proposal with the adjustments that are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112100	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Orla Sea as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112119	Thank you. When I use this unusual procedure, it is due to almost 50 years, we must say, association with or interest in horse racing. This case is figuratively about a group of people agreeing to enjoy a good meal with good ingredients on the plate. The problem, however, is that they add the bill to a third person who was not even invited to the meal and who, moreover, risks not having the opportunity to earn money to pay the bill. There are many myths about horse racing. An ultra-short description may be appropriate. The horse racing sport consists roughly of two groups that share the fascination of what the interaction between horses and humans can develop into in a sporting context. One group is those who work actively with the horses in connection with breeding, care, training and running every day of the year. It is not wealthy, but typically families who share interest in horses and in an often tight budget give priority to having this hobby. Their dream is about producing a Tarok. The second group is those who are active spectators. They follow the sport, the news about it, the performance of the horses in interaction with the driver or rider. That knowledge is used to take part in the totalisering game that over the ages has formed the basis for a major part of the economy of sport. Their dream is about the big win. A few years ago, the government and the Danish Parliament helped this totalisering game into Danish Games. The background was a desire to use the new technology and changed forms of communication to spread the game with IT and TV. Politically, there was a desire to help the game not to prevail and to come into a framework to ensure that it contributed partly to horse racing and partly to the general purpose of the old tip service. Since then, technology has developed enormously rapidly. Danish Spils' commitment, will or perhaps ability to develop the game on horses has slowed the development of horse racing at the most shameful. Danish Games have 4,000 deposit stalls across the country. In 200 of these alone there is an opportunity to play horses. The consequence of this has been that Danish horse racing has ended up in series 6 with an annual turnover of just over 500 million. kr., while in Norway the turnover is 3.5 billion. kr. and in Sweden for 11 billion. kr. On top of this, a language has been introduced indicating that sport is on the support. This is not a true picture, as the nature of sport has always been to develop so that it itself could create its own economic foundation, where the state has, for many years, received revenue through the charges at stake. In addition to the marriage with Danske Game, politicians also designed the Financing Fund of Horse Race Sports, which has proved unable to interact with Danish Games to promote the development of horse racing. The board appointed by the Minister has its focus on the operation of courses where the sport unfolds. New tractors and other equipment have been a priority, while the development task has been non-existent or counter-worked. In the midst of rapid technological development and now cutting funds for sport, we must ask the question to the group which today presents a fait accompli in the form of a bill for horse racing: Are we prepared to give sport new tools to create revenue for continued development, or do we passively see this part of our culture disappearing to the detriment of the many people's leisure opportunities, social commitment and employment around Denmark? Will you help the sport out of Danske Spils strangling tag and create a platform to develop the sport and its financial basis? A future scenario for this offers the opportunity to develop the Scandinavian cooperation that already exists in the field of sport to include a common game. This presupposes not leaving sport without the financial means to pursue this scenario and creating a dynamic role that HFF has had so far. Is the Minister and the majority here today prepared to play an active part in this, or will he let horse racing suffer a disgraceful and quiet death, without respect for the many people who are part of this culture, who are probably more active than there are supporters of, for example, The ballet? Both are small elements of a rich cultural life, and we should make room for this through wise decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112643	Thank you. It was an interesting privateist speech to hear from a socialist colleague, for it is no secret that we have been able to see in the press for a very long time that the Left has been the party in the Danish Parliament that has been pushing for years for horse sports to be freed and liberalised, so that we could get various kinds of games going, either a Nordic model of gambling or another form of gambling, and so that a large number of million revenues could be generated. It is good that there are now even Socialist Members who support this. And I guess that's the question... that you will support inside the Social Democratic Party that this time period takes the time it takes... gets cut off. Because if it were up to the Left, we would like this game to start tomorrow, if possible, and at least as soon as possible. So when Mr. Orla Hav now stands and speaks as the great defender of the future of horse sport, I assume that Mr. Orla Sea also will make sure that the tempo comes in up gear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112749	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112751	Well, next to polishing the gloria, I'll be able to respond to Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen's question. I do not know whether it is the Left who has so much cared for these interests, because the Left had the opportunity to do something about it at another time. But it's okay that the Left is now interested, and I know that there are good people in the Left who are committed to it that's really, really good. I can only say that this was the last question I put at our group meeting, and I have tried to stay within the framework of such ordinary parliamentary work and to try to exert influence where I have been able to get it. I have just experienced that this has been presented as a fait accompli, where we alone can take a position on the overall package, and it is therefore essential to get some people to listen to the fact that some tools have to be provided to give horse-race a chance to cope with the future, otherwise it will die.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112847	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112849	It must be admitted that it gives an interesting picture of how other parties work with agreements. I would then like to say, for information, that fortunately this has not been the case in the Left. We have been discussing this for a long time, including throughout the negotiations. But that was interesting to hear. What I just want to say without polishing the gloria or other things is that I am not the one who has today taken the privateist role in the platform. I want to hold on to what I did not really get an answer to, namely whether the privateist will take the lead in the Social Democratic Party, in relation to the fact that we will have a faster liberalisation of the game for trotting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112927	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106112929	The driver's shirt is not something you take, it is something you acquire through profit, and it is not certain that I get any profit for the behavior I have today. Well, then I'll just say to Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen's somewhat condescending remark about the timetable that I have been discussing this issue for quite some time since it appeared, but I have kept it indoors. I think so too, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen will know is wise to do in the parliamentary work. But I just have to say that when this was presented as it is now, namely as a fait accompli, where a comma cannot be moved, I have to ask whether, however, there can be no look at the commas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113006	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. Then it is the Minister for Culture, since there is no Conservative rapporteur present.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113022	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments at first reading. As I have said, this is a legislative proposal whose aim is to implement what we call a political agreement on sport, which the parties of the Folketing signed in May of this year. I am very pleased that all the parties are behind the agreement. It is positive for the future of sport that we have agreed with the agreement on how state funding for sport should be given priority in the future. Against this background, I am very convinced that the agreement benefits sport in Denmark as a whole. The bill makes some technical changes to the legislation that are necessary in the light of the agreement. I can quickly sum them up: there will be a redistribution of what we call the means of distribution, that is to say, profits that we get for cultural, sporting purposes from gambling turnover. These are changes in the composition of boards in selected public self-owned institutions in the field of sport, and this is a change in Anti Doping Denmark's company. I would like to make a few comments on what we call the redistribution of funding for sport. In the contract circle, we agreed that the Horse Race Sport Finance Fund should be cut by 15 million. kr. increasing to 30 million. kr. Over four years, this is out of a total grant of 97 million. kr. We also agreed that horse racing should be encouraged to explore alternative funding options, among other things. through the development of new game forms. Against this background, the Horse Race Sports Financing Fund and Danske Game have launched a study of possible models to find a solution to the task of financing horse race sports through game turnover. If these studies suggest sustainable models for alternative financing of horse racing, the parties behind the agreement have indicated that they would take a positive view of the possibility of autonomous horse racing, or say in its own words: it will be released. On the other hand, if the studies show that there are no viable alternatives, then the contract circle will discuss the future subsidy for horse racing. And that's from 2018 onwards. In other words, we have opted for a sensible phasing-out system which should allow horse racing to adapt to a new economic reality. In connection with the hearing, there has also been a lot of debate over the period from the submission of the bill to today on the pruning of horse racing. I would like to sign for all the clarification and comments I have received in the later period by e-mail and by other means. I promise I'll get the answer to all of them. Finally, I would like to remind you that the political agreement on voting on sport is precisely about re-prioritising the state funds allocated to sport today. And then I would like to comment on the problem that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen made a statement on the prospects for the growth of the means of distribution or not growth. It is quite true that we are now at a time when profits are decreasing. The 2010 agreement decided to evaluate the situation four years after the conclusion of the agreement. It was then pushed a year, so it had to start in 2015. The Minister of Finance is bringing forward that evaluation now, so it will be started this year, and we will then get it in the spring, I assume. It is also because, in the light of the agreement and the way in which the agreement is drawn up, we need to assess the appropriateness of the developments that are now taking place and how we deal with it. And there have to be some changes, and I am actually very convinced of that. Well, then I'll just answer Mr. Knox's question. Lars Dohn, that the parties behind the vote agreement are called very quickly to discuss the sports policy objectives. It is a process that is being set in motion now and which must also involve sports organisations. At some point they must be consulted and involved in it, but we will start the debate between the parties to the agreement. So I look forward to further consideration of the draft law and hope that it will continue to do so in a constructive way, and I would like to acknowledge to the parties to the agreement the constructive cooperation we have had, which has led to the first written agreement on sport policy, which is, of course, about how we allocate the funds and with what intention we are doing it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113511	There are a few brief comments, I see now, first from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113517	Thank you. I think it is actually obvious in this Chamber today, when we are debating and discussing L 23, that I am also asking the Minister for Culture whether the Minister can confirm that the text that we had written into the vote agreement in order to ensure the possibility of horse sport also being released, as we say, has been passed on to the Minister for Taxation. We hear something in the corridors, but it might be nice enough to confirm in this Chamber today that it has officially been passed on to the tax minister, so he is also aware that this is one of the things that needs to be taken into account in the negotiations that are to take place with the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113606	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113611	As you know, the tax minister is part of the government, so the tax minister is also involved. He was in the process before we made the final decision. So the tax minister has to do the same to the finance minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113626	That's it? Mrs. Anni Matthiesen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113629	Thank you. It is complex in that there are, after all, many different ministries involved in some of the same things here. Another point that I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech was that a little pressure could be put on to emphasise that the equity capital available to the horse racing fund can also be used in different contexts to support horse racing. And there I would like to hear from the Minister whether she does not agree that there should be no problems in that and that, if the board of the fund thinks so, money can also be taken out of own funds, possibly to close a gap in order to give more time to these negotiations and investigations that have been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113721	That is absolutely correct. So, the Financing Fund for Horse Race Sport is a self-serving institution, and it has an equity which is very large if you look at what the need for equity is in that type and the size of the business. There is no need to have more than 1, 2 or 3 million. kr. You have to be able to cover the costs you have to bear, wage costs and the type of expenditure, and any debts you have to bear. That is why the Board of Directors of the Fund has own funds within the meaning of the Fund's Statute. The only thing the Ministry of Culture does is to ensure that the equity capital is adequate. And there I can say that it is much bigger than it is necessary. It is the board of the fund that decides how it uses the funds, and the rest of us cannot interfere with it and should not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113818	Sir. Orla Hav for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113822	I have a question for the Minister, bearing in mind the situation of horse racing in which, when the funds are cut, it is absolutely essential that the dynamics needed to create a new income base be put in place. Is the Minister prepared to play an active part with those actors who are to some extent government-controlled, despite the fact that it is a self-serving fund, because I fully agree with that? However, it is the Minister who has appointed the representatives of the Horse sports Finance Fund. Is the Minister prepared to play an active role in bringing about the development that is absolutely necessary to pay the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113906	Yes, both the Ministry and I are interested in this, and I have had a meeting with both parties, not just here recently, but during the summer, about how we set it in motion, and so there are also people on Danske Spils' board who are interested in finding solutions quickly, because they are also part of this whole scenario that we are talking about. So I find it difficult to see where there is a problem right now, but I would very much like to help facilitate that things are going to go as fast as possible, but also in a sufficiently relevant and qualified way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113945	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106113947	I would like to sign for that by saying thank you very kindly, because I think that will be very necessary. What I hear on the periphery of horse racing is that Danske Spil has an idea that they have to be paid out to release the horse racing game, a horse racing game that they have had no interest whatsoever in developing. The situation with the Horsesport Finance Fund has been that one has been very concerned about the operational task and has ensured that there are good tractors to haul on the tracks etc., but has not had the commitment to create development. It is in this situation that I ask the Minister to take account of both the time factor, but certainly also the fact that horse racing is currently in need. So it's a matter of taking, I don't know if it's the handbag out or the boxing gloves on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114043	I take off the gloves and shake hands with those who come and visit me and invite those who are interested in the theme, as Mr. Orla Sea, for example. I should like to make a few comments on this subject. You are very welcome to ask for a meeting with me. Sometimes you can do that in 15 minutes or half an hour, so it is not something you put the whole world in motion for, and everyone is welcome to make their contribution. So I also predict that we will have a number of meetings and contacts in different ways in the future, and that I will also follow what is happening under Danske Spils.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114124	Then there is one last brief comment from Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114129	Thank you. In May 2003, the Finance Minister then submitted a note, a statement, to the State Audit Office, where he among other things submitted a report. writes: "For the sake of good order it should be noted that for the board it played an important role that Dansk Tipservice, with the takeover of the horse game, could at the same time protect its core business. If the horse sport had succeeded in introducing the so-called lightning game Harry Boy in Denmark in close cooperation with Swedish AGT, the result could be seen in the form of a significantly decreasing earnings on especially the lucrative Lotto game. In such a situation, earnings would be lost in the order of three-digit million euros each year. ▪ I think it is the kind of statements that cause you to worry about horse sports when it is combined with the Vice-President of Danske Spil, Søren Møller, yesterday, and in a press release said that the sport must be cut much more. So it is clear that I think that in horse sports you start to get nervous and ask, "Tell me, can we count on this or what's going on?' So my first question to go to the Minister is whether the Minister feels confident that Danske Game should help the trotting sport when it is one of the statements we hear from the management.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114242	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114245	I understand that, in the field of trotting and horse racing, people are worried when they hear such reports. That is also why I choose to indicate here from the platform today that I am following what is happening and that I am also following what is happening in Danske Game, and I have an appointment for a meeting with Danske Game in the near future. And it's not just me who does it, it's also the department officials who work in this area. After all, we have an obligation of initiative to ensure that what is agreed in this Chamber between the parties is also implemented in accordance with what was intended, and we will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114325	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114328	Minister, one of the things one hears if one comes in these circles and that is perhaps something that the minister has also heard is that, among other things, when HFF, the Horse Racing Financing Fund, to which the Minister himself appoints the majority of Members, has the view that they will not go in and use the money some have described as ample equity capital, if one is to look at the operating costs they have, it is because they are afraid that they will be met with it, as Mr. Orla Hav said just before, namely a requirement that they should deliver some of the money when they are to be separated from Danske Spil. Am I right when I understood the Minister like that and now I am trying not to put anything in the Minister's mouth that has not been said, so the Minister must correct it if I have not understood correctly that the Minister is of that opinion in relation to the Folketing? And would the Minister help to send out a signal that there is at least enough money to spend 15 million? kr., because that's the problem. The problem is whether we can get the 15 million. kr. on 1 January, so that we avoid closing lanes, and then hope that we can get along with them, with which we would prefer to create a financing platform. But did I understand the Minister correctly, if that is what I am reproducing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114446	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114448	Well it is true that no one in the Folketing or outside the Folketing or outside the financing fund can decide on that equity. Only the board of directors who sits on the fund can do so, but they must do so under the responsibility of the regulatory framework, namely to ensure that there is adequate equity in order to discharge what is the commitment of the fund. Well, I can't say it any clearer than I've done this. However, I would like to stress that it is not therefore the task of the Danish Parliament or anyone outside the remit of the board; it must be those who are in horse racing themselves who are discussing how to use the funds available, and it is the board of the fund that decides how much money they want to take out of that equity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114532	No one else has asked to speak, so thank the Minister for Culture. And the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next item on the agenda will be taken up in due course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114602	The debate is open. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114607	Thank you. The draft law before us today concerns the modernisation of the legal basis of the higher artistic education institutions of the Ministry of Culture. This has been a long time in the process, because it actually comes as a result of an explanation of the structure of education and the division of labour between the educational institutions in the so-called performing arts sector, which was launched as a result of a political agreement at the moment 2011-2014, which was concluded in the government of the VK with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democrats, Radicals and the SF. It can therefore be said that it is gratifying that efforts to modernise now finally lead to concrete legislation. On the basis of the analysis, the Minister for Culture has proposed the creation of this entire educational institution, which we believe also modernises and in the long term can offer Bachelor and Master's degree programmes. In fact, we regard this as a good idea. This institution, Den Danske Scenekunstskole, will gather several of the existing institutions: Statens Scenekunstskole, the actor's degree at Aarhus Theatre, the dramatist's degree at Aarhus Theatre, the actor's degree at the Academy of Music, the Danish Academy of Music Fredericia and Odsherred Theatre School. All these institutions will therefore be separated from their former administration and placed under the overall leadership of a joint rector. Of course, we have noted that the consultation responses have been overwhelmingly positive from all levels, and there is, in fact, broad support from all the existing educational institutions. However, among the consultation responses were also some critical voices and, of course, they deserve to be taken seriously during the consideration of this legislative proposal by all of us. Among other things: The theater's organization of interest and the Danish Actor Association call into question the power of the Ministry of Culture to appoint a joint rector. Danish Dramatists welcome the transition to the bachelor and Master's degree programme, but both the Danish Artist Federation and the Danish Artist Federation warn against a possible slippage in the artistic and practical basis in favour of academyisation and theorisation. So the fear of having a common principal is, of course, something we must take seriously, but at the same time it is not something that causes us to shake our hands, because the situation is that if we look at how and how it will be in practice, we see that it will be done on a professional basis and, above all, with a background of practical and theoretical knowledge, and at the same time it must be one with international experience. So we're not really so nervous about making this structure. On the contrary, we actually see that there is the potential for us to create better training courses, which also provide the necessary high professional level, which may have been lacking in some of the courses. And not least, we can guarantee the future of this whole important area. So in those words, we support the bill and would recommend that we all go into it with an upright forehead and optimism.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114933	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Troels Ravn as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106114940	Thank you. With the bill here, L 24, the Danish performing arts programmes are converted into bachelor and Master's degree programmes. We strengthen the international view of the Danish performing arts programmes, and this is positive. It is crucial for us that we do not shut ourselves down in cultural policy. The redeployment is a clear strengthening of previous four-year courses, and structuralally they will be closer to the other art courses abroad. In the consultations there is general satisfaction with the draft law and it is expressed that it creates better conditions for higher artistic education. The aim of the structural changes here is not to standardise the individual stage arts courses in Denmark. On the contrary. It is also important for the Social Democrats that the education programmes work to develop different artistic approaches and profiles to ensure diversity. We are thereby fulfilling the ambition of the government to ensure increased internationalisation and better interaction with the remaining educational landscape for artistic education. We are now bringing together different educational orientations and institutions under the same legislation in order to have the best possible insight into the development of training. We take Danish performing arts seriously by prioritising the efforts together, and at the same time we clarify the role of the educational institutions. We are reviewing the objectives of the institutions so that it is clear what role they should play. So let me conclude by saying that art plays an important role in our society. At a time when much is made up in crowns and ears, it is important to be able to sense and experience other things in life, and that helps art to do so. Art and culture are welfare. It is important that everyone has access to high-quality art experiences in Danish society, which is why it is important that we give priority to performing arts, as we do with Bill L 24. The Socialists are, of course, behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106115158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll get to sir too. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106115206	Thank you. The academicisation of our degree programmes continues, even though the government says it wants something else. Now the tour has come to the stage arts educations. You want to tone down further the craftsmanship, centralise the training courses, harmonise them and make them a bachelor and Master's degree programme, thereby further marking them, as you know from the United States and the rest of the Nordic countries. In other words, in the future we can expect much more Professor Higgins than Eliza Doolittle in our performing arts. The archipelago is the analysis of the performing arts educations from 2013, where there are a lot of exciting punks, such as that the artists should be independent, entrepreneurial, flexible and interdisciplinary, etc. Not only do artists have to document and establish reflection practices, and of course they need to be prepared for internationalisation. In order to achieve all this promise, the courses must be centralized in a single institution, which must be named the Danish Scene Art School, so that trained performers can obtain an academic degree in order to go further and retrain, which is basically good enough, but it must be at the expense of the traditional master's teaching, which for centuries has been the trademark of stage and film art. I understand that the academic environments have been skeptical. I am not sure that it will produce better performing arts, rather, on the contrary. Many of the greatest actors we have brought forth in Denmark over the years have emerged from the theater's student schools. Here, after a tough admission test, young people were admitted to the school, after which they went through a demanding education based on mastership and acting crafts. That's why they were so good even when they were on TV and in movies. I cannot help wondering if a modern educational and artistic learning philosophy will help the actors students. I don't think so. Do you think Hans Christian Andersen would have had a chance to reflect on and document and convey the awareness and insights that arise in or relate to the artistic creation process when, as a young man, he wanted to be an actor? I don't think so. I have criticized this in the past, which is why the legal notes have tried to guard against the academy: Since the main knowledge base is practice, teachers must participate in or have active contact with relevant artistic practice and development environments. It also states that the Ministry of Culture will emphasise that the transition to the new bachelor and master structure will not result in the theorisation and academisation of the stage arts courses at the expense of the practical and artistic elements, but that the transition will enable the development and strengthening of the artistic foundations of the courses. But I'm not quite safe. The Minister must therefore respond to how she will ensure that there is no academyisation of education. Centralisation is also very worrying. All performing arts institutions, i.e. Theatre schools, assembled in a unit with joint principal. This has been criticised in some of the consultations. The Ministry has nonchalantly rejected it as a problem. The Minister should therefore answer how she will avoid the model leading to centralisation and alignment and whether she will follow it up annually. A third concern on the part of the Danish People's Party is that the Minister is authorised in the bill to hire all rectors. In this context, it would be a good thing if the Minister could explain the recruitment procedure to the parties of the Folketing. However, there are also good things in the bill that need to be included. There will be, for example: continue to be admission tests for the programme both for the bachelor and the candidate part. Baccalaureate will not be required to be admitted, and the actors will be given better opportunities to further train themselves by taking the courses to bachelors and candidates. We also support the return of artistic education to the Ministry of Culture, where the right ones belong. The Danish People's Party will therefore await the committee before we state how we vote on the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106115635	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130038	The sitting shall resume. We are at first reading of draft law L 24, and the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Mie Bergmann from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130104	Thank you. This bill, L 24, deals with proposals for law on higher artistic education institutions. Culture and art are an important part of the quality of life of most citizens. This applies to citizens of all ages. I have been to a children's festival in Kolding; it was a huge event in which all kindergarten children and primary school students were offered, that is: they were almost forced to participate in at least one theatre performance. It was an eye opener for a lot of kids. As the children said, this is real! It's their terms, because they're used to watching movies, so seeing a theatre performance was real to them. Fortunately, there are citizens who want to take an education in the field of performing arts, and now there will be the possibility of a bachelor and Master's degree in performing arts as well. These courses will change from having previously been an education of 3-4 years to becoming a bachelor and Master's degree, but the admission requirements themselves will not change. This will have the consequence that there will be an educational institution in the field of performing arts, so that the current higher stage arts courses can come under one hat. The Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130232	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then the next speaker is Karsten Hønge from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130246	SF's usual rapporteur is prevented from attending today. But I can say that the SF supports the bill, which makes it possible to strengthen the performing arts educations. As it is now, artistic education may find it difficult to meet the challenges posed by a dynamic labour market with many temporary jobs and permanent jobs. It is also a labour market which places high demands on the transition of graduates to a constantly changing labour market. Those challenges must match the arts educations, for we owe our young talents the very best prerequisites for unfolding and hopefully also being able to live on their talents. We are pleased that the bill introduces a bachelor and master structure into artistic education. A harmonised structure will result in better opportunities for institutional cooperation between the different educational establishments. The flexibility of artistic education will be strengthened by giving students easier access to a Master's or Master's or a change of degree programme. Increased flexibility will also give students the opportunity to work and gain experience before choosing to specialise with an artistic superstructure. At the same time, it ensures a better framework for effective cooperation with the research environments around the country or with other international institutions. We are also very positive that the proposal sets out to preserve the practical approach of the performing arts courses and its own unique traditions of educational approach. It is important for us that education does not lose their practical focus or risk becoming too academic. It is important for the SF that the bill will not lead to excessive centralisation or alignment, and we welcome the signal from the Minister that regional diversity will be maintained and that the autonomy of local educational institutions will not be undermined in relation to the organisation of education. In several of the consultations, there have been concerns about the size and composition of the customer panels, whether it will ensure diversity and representativeness. This is a concern that we share in part, so I hope that we will be sharp to keep a close eye on how the downstream panels will work in practice. It is important that education and training have the opportunity for a good dialogue with the outside world around them. Having said that, overall, we think that this is a very good legislative proposal and we look forward to seeing how it will hopefully strengthen the performing arts environment in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130537	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Dohn of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130546	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, is prevented, so I have to read Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr's speech. The reason for this bill is, of course, that in 2010 an agreement was made whereby it was decided that a committee should clarify the training structure. The Enhedslisten was not included in that agreement because it involved some green harvesting elements. But this does not affect the part here about the structure of education. Our position on the proposal is positive. It makes very good sense to bring together the artistic educations with a new institution and to transfer the courses to bachelor and Master's degree programmes. This creates more coherence between the different training courses and makes it possible to develop more interdisciplinaryly. At the same time, it gives students better opportunities to transfer to other programmes and creates better conditions for an international perspective in the programmes. However, it is important for us to stress that the transition to Bachelor and Master's level must not mean that it will be a more academic or theoretical education almost literally the same as the previous rapporteur said on that subject. Scene art courses should still be oriented towards practice with a high degree of knowledge from the specific field of practice. The minister in the consultation note rejects the idea of an increase in academia, so that is also our expectation. At the same time, it is vital for us that this restructuring does not mean that there will be less resources for the core task of training, namely education. The Minister says in the consultation note that no funds are transferred from education to administration, and we are aware of this. It is important for us in the Enhedslisten that with a new educational institution we ensure influence for employees, for students and for customer organisations. It is our expectation to the Minister that it will be met by further implementation of the framework, just as it is our expectation that sufficient resources will be allocated to ensure that the institution can guarantee quality education, adequate guidance and good conditions for research and development work. The unitary list may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130844	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106130854	I can't help wondering, when you look over this virtually empty hall, whether you're in some way a player in a play. But it was a registration note. We have to deal with L 24, which follows on from the analysis that has been made of the performing arts educational institutions under the Ministry of Culture's ability to create one coherent institution. It's definitely a recommendation that we make this change, and that's why it makes really good sense. I also think it makes a great deal of sense to equate the performing arts courses with other courses in that they are now given a formal opportunity to call themselves bachelors. In some of the consultation responses, concerns have been expressed as to whether this is now the expression of an academy, it expressed the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party as well and whether one gets away from the fact that it should be practice-related. I do not share that concern at all. In other words, the fact that you reflect on your own work, on your own profession, and that, as part of a Bachelor's degree programme, you also relate theoretically, academically to it, can only be a strengthening in all areas, and I do not think it will be something that will happen at the expense of the practice-oriented. However, this could perhaps help to ensure that the level of education and training and the level of training are actually raised. So I think it's a really good thing. And by the way, if you want a degree as a bachelor, it is clear that you must also meet the requirements of the Bologna Declaration and elsewhere. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I have some concerns in this regard, and that is that, when many institutions are put together for one institution, it is, of course, also an expression of centralisation. We've seen it in a lot of places. I myself have been involved in this, both in professional education, i.e. professional high schools, and at university level. After all, the intention and the approach are that it should also be to make things more efficient and to show that there must be less bureaucracy. I have to say, unfortunately, that my experience is that the very opposite is happening very often; that there is a hierarchy which is incredibly pointed with layers on layers, and that there may be a temptation, even if you have geographical decentralisation, that in time there will be centralisation. I know that it has been tried to say that this is not what is meant by this, but I would nevertheless like to raise a warning flag: please ensure that this does not lead to further bureaucracy and ensure that it does not lead to a geographical centralisation of these education programmes, because we have but with the small concerns I would say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106131204	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106131216	In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of the draft law, in a positive sense, in the sense that we agree with the intentions. It is important that we develop these training programmes. It is a good intention to develop a bachelor and a candidate. It is good to streamline and modernise. We can also note that the draft law has been tabled on the basis of a report in which the institutions concerned have previously had the opportunity to participate in committee work which is then the basis of the draft law. So much good we have to say about this, but our final position must await the work of the committee. Because I believe, and I have said this from the outset, that there are problems with the centralisation that is being set up, because it is centralisation. It is also clear that when these institutions are merged into one educational institution, a rector will be appointed for the entire institution, who will then replace those currently in the individual institutions, and many good words can be said that each institution must retain its distinctive character. But I just want to ask how, when we finish the bowl speeches in connection with the examination of the bill, we will ensure that the principal and the board of that institution do not say: Aah, we must be able to centralize something more; everyone must drive in the same groove, along the same track; we must have some consultants in there who can see if they can see if they can reach that we can save even more money at the bottom of some spreadsheets by making more efficient and centralising even more. And quietly, we risk that consultants and spreadsheets and the desire to show leadership power from a central management lead to the individual characteristics of these institutions being wiped out. I also agree with what Mrs Mette Bock says: that it is not always when you want to streamline and remove layers of systems that it really leads to something that is more effective. So in the course of the committee work, we will have some assurances that we can also remain calm permanently, especially with regard to the fact that these institutions retain their own characteristics. It is not only an objective to make things more efficient and that things look great in some structural sheets with boxes and lines etc., it is also important that things work out there in reality, and so that what it is all about, namely ultimately creating artistic quality, development and innovation, having room for creativity, etc., can still happen on these institutions separately, and that one cannot be subjected to a centralisation that is subjugated to cultural development, innovation and enterprise. These are things that we, the Conservatives, want to emphasise. As I have said, we are in favour of this as a starting point because we share the intentions, but we must have some assurances in committee before we can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106131550	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106131559	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions here at first reading, and I should like to start by stressing that the artistic education of the Ministry of Culture has a special value, because they contribute in their entire nature to giving the Danish society both spirit, formation and creative strength. That is why I am also pleased that the draft law we are talking about today creates a solid basis for the development of education for the benefit of art and culture and society. The draft law states that educational institutions play an important role as artistic and cultural institutions. The draft law contains a number of provisions which help to ensure a good and sustainable framework for education and training. Those provisions shall include, inter alia: the knowledge base of training, international cooperation in education and quality assurance. This draft law is a very important step towards a new organisation of education in the field of performing arts, and all the rapporteurs have touched on this too. This means that in some years, the courses go from 3-year-old to 4-year-old to bachelor and Master's degree programmes. And this means that a new nationwide educational institution for performing arts is being established which brings together the current higher stage arts courses. These measures are based on the main recommendation contained in the report on higher education in the field of performing arts, which came last September. The committee behind the report consisted of representatives of the managements of the current institutions and representatives of the performing arts environment. I think it is important that we listen to the artistic environments. That is why it is very important that the proposals for a new organisation of the performing arts education have come from the institutions themselves and from the performing arts environment. That is what we normally call: the involvement of those involved. I also think it is important that we give the artistic environments the opportunity to take responsibility for their own development, and that is exactly what we are doing by following up the recommendations of the report. The idea has been expressed from a few quarters that the introduction of a bachelor and master structure will lead to the academy of the stage arts courses. I do not share this concern and a great deal has been done to beat, I was just saying a seven-inch nail through that it will not happen. I would like to mention some points of view as to why it does not want to do so. Firstly, we still have an admission test as an entrance and there is no requirement in some places for any other prerequisites than that of the admission test. So the recording takes place on one's own personal development and ability. That is the one important thing. The second important thing is that even if it becomes a Master's degree, it is not research-based, as all other Master's degree programmes are; it is development-based. And that means that the measure taken when observing and assessing the institutions involved in this performing arts education indicates what the potential for development they provide is. It is physical, touchable, sighting; so we can see what is happening because it is the performing arts it is about. I think that is very important. That is why I would also like to stress that it is a master apprenticeship. You can't read yourself to be a stage artist, it can't be done. You have to practice and practice it, and learn from others and make your experiences with others when performing performing performing arts. So I have to say that we have a common interest in ensuring that the stage arts courses continue to be of the kind that is fundamental today. That is not the nature that is changing. We are just giving some other opportunities than there are today by designing the structure of the programmes with a Bachelor's degree and a Master's degree. The advantage of it is that you can go out of Bachelor's degree programme, go out into the world and experience, try out various things, and that you can choose to come back and start a Master's degree. You can't do that, too. Moreover, it is not necessary to pass some stage art education in order to become involved in a theatre and perform performing arts. It is a free market, if I may say so. The reason we take this up is that the courses want to be accredited so that they can be compared internationally. There is only the situation of accreditation according to the legislation that exists, in other words, from the institution as a place of education. And there is too little, the accreditation people say, if there are only eight students per student. vintage. So it's not really easy to make an accreditation. That is, of course, one of the reasons for the decision to unite and to form one institution that is then accredited by the Accreditation Board. I certainly think that we should keep an eye on what we do with all the institutions for which we are responsible and which we establish in society. Of course, as politicians, we must also follow them and see that things are going the way we want them to go. Then I have to say to the question raised by several people, namely whether there is centralisation, that I fully agree that there is always a risk of that. And I also agree that there may be a risk of bureaucracy when you do it this way. After all, we can be helped to follow it, intervene and discuss it when we see trends in that direction, because that is not what is meant to be. I would just like to point out that elsewhere in society and in the education system some limits have been exceeded by going in and doing things, for example. administrative communities. This is now being done in the high school world, for it has been given the opportunity to do so. In the High School Act adopted by the Danish Parliament in the previous session, it is possible to do so. The high schools have already done so. They were very, very hesitant at first; now they are using it as a saving opportunity so that they get more money out of what they can use for something other than administration. So I think we should also be open to the fact that the technology that is developing in this area can also be used to simplify some processes at the individual educational establishment. Then questions have been raised about how to accommodate the appointment of a rector. What happens when the Ministry of Culture appoints a principal? There we have experience of setting up an appointment committee. In fact, we do that when the institutions need to have a rector. The State Museum of Art has just received a new director, and this was done at an appointment committee where we had international help, because someone came from the international art environment; someone came from the institution itself; there was a representative of the Ministry of Culture, because there must be such situations as the legislation has been arranged; and then there were some professionals. It is, of course, a way of setting up recruitment committees which are well known in other contexts. We can also discuss how we do this in practice and how it can be useful. I also agree with what the SF's rapporteur said, namely that it follows the function of the customer panel, that is to say how it works. I also fully agree that it will be interesting to see how this can work. So all in all: the special feature of the common is, after all, the individual current institution that enters the Community but has its own distinctive character. That's why it's special. That's why you could have the special thing in the joint as a headline for or standing over the door frame like the one that's the slogan for this maneuver. I think it will come to the stage arts courses and thus also the Danish society • all of us are very useful, but we can be helped by watching that the things that we appreciate can be developed in the good, constructive way, and discuss what we do when we see the danger signals on what we do not like. So that openness must be there. I will deliver all the labour that is possible to the Committee on Culture when they deal with this bill so that we can have the best possible basis for making the final decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106132444	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106132504	The first rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106132524	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward this bill. It is actually a follow-up to a resolution which we discussed last October and which I myself, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party helped to table. It is positive to see that the Minister has taken up the proposal and wants to increase the freedoms of free vocational schools. Today we are discussing L 32 and, as I said, it deals with the free vocational schools and will give them greater freedom in their professional provision, mentoring and campus training. The current legislation for household and hand-working schools is out of date. The term 'domestic schools' and 'hand-working schools' alone is not in line with the present, and it has been a great wish of the free vocational schools to change their names to free vocational schools. The same is true in relation to the professional offer, and I have to say that this bill, which changes things in a way, so that in future the school scheme will be described as free vocational schools, also means that the term for the professional offer will then be changed to practical or professional subjects. We think that this is a good and necessary step, and it is a good thing that the law for free vocational schools is following developments in society and thus giving free vocational schools more opportunities. The draft law also proposes a new lower age limit for whether schools can receive additional fees for a mentoring scheme for young people. The lower age limit is changed from 171⁄2 years to 16 years. This means that more young people will be able to receive support to move forward in the education system and it will further strengthen the work of free vocational schools in improving young people's opportunities for vocational training. At the same time, the draft law awards the schools for those pupils who, within seven months of leaving a free vocational school, are admitted to vocational training, and this part of the bill is also very positive. In addition, during a trial period, the draft law will allow the free vocational schools to cooperate with other educational institutions, and in the draft law the restriction in the free vocational schools is that there must be at least a vocational training institution in campus cooperation. It is a good thing that the Minister is opening up campus cooperation. This will give free vocational schools and other participants in a possible cooperation exciting opportunities. At the same time, I would have liked the Minister to have looked at whether this cooperation could possibly be extended so that it does not necessarily have to be included exclusively by an institution of vocational training in the Left, we are pleased that the government will be involved in giving more freedom to the free vocational schools. We think the proposal contains many good things, but, as I said, we would like the government to open up more in the context of campus cooperation. We do not think it is necessary to include an institution for vocational training in this cooperation. We would like to see campus cooperation set up without such institutions and that free vocational schools were given an even greater freedom to enter into cooperation with other institutions or companies for that matter. All in all, we think it is positive and we support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106132942	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106132952	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a goal that as many young people as possible should have an education and that each of them will be as skilled as they can. In the last Assembly we adopted a very comprehensive and ambitious reform of our vocational training. At the same time, however, we also agree that the fact that young people are dressed to start is a really, really important part of it. This is a small step in the direction in which we are in future making the same demands on education for these schools, but we are giving a freer framework for how they can organize it. And that is among other things. the possibility of creating a concept that is called ready for vocational training. This is a very important element in ensuring that as many young people as possible receive training. So is the work on mentors, and I think it's a good bill. The Social Democrats can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133047	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133056	Thank you. After all, the bill here is a follow-up to a resolution from October 2013 by the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, and it is indeed gratifying that the government has listened to the opposition. We are confident in bringing forward more motions for resolutions which the Minister and the government can follow up and prepare for legislative proposals, and this is quite excellent. This means, among other things, that free vocational schools will have their field of activity expanded. After all, it is a practical education aimed at young people who find it difficult to hold on to youth education and who are good with their hands. The small things that are being changed in the existing law I shall not make any more of, because Mrs Anni Matthiesen has explained this very well. But that is something that means a great deal to the free vocational schools, and I can only note that schools that get students into vocational training quite quickly, that is to say within seven months of their stay, will be rewarded. We think that is quite excellent, too, that they are given the opportunity to join campus communities and I really think it is fine that one of the institutions is a vocational training. That's great. So all in all a fine little amendment proposal, which we in the Danish People's Party can warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133231	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mie Bergmann as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133246	Thank you. During the 21⁄2 weeks when I was a member of Parliament, there have already been quite a few updates of old laws. There is of course a need for updates, for the world is changing every second, and the understanding that a name like household and handwork school does not sound like a lot of young people is understandable. The bill for a change of name to free vocational schools is perfectly logical. This bill also proposes that the name be changed from household and hand-working to practical and professional subjects, thus extending the subject areas of the schools to technical and craft trades. It makes sense. It is important that as many young people as possible take an education, and with this change it is very likely that even more will get an education when the way can go through free vocational schools. It is also proposed that the lower age limit for schools should be reduced from 171⁄2 to 16. The Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Karsten Hønge as the next rapporteur, and it is for SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133414	SF believes that it makes good sense to bring together schools offering young people different kinds of occupations under a single term, namely the free vocational schools. The term covers schools which can attract young people with different conditions, needs and interests. For us, it makes sense to strengthen the framework for schools in relation to the important work they do. This contributes to the fact that more young people in Denmark are taking an upper secondary education. With the adoption of the law, schools will be better able to offer practical-professional packages to young people so that they can better act as a kind of pre-stage for vocational training. In this context, we also find it positive that the free vocational schools with the bill will be able to form a campus with upper secondary education and institutions offering vocational training. Hopefully, the enhanced cooperation between the free vocational schools and the vocational training institutions can facilitate the transition to vocational training for pupils following a course in a vocational school. SF will work to motivate more young people to take a youth education and the bill creates a more coherent framework for free vocational schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133531	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133539	Thank you. I want to start by revealing that we in the Enhedslist can also support this bill. I think the former rapporteurs have explained quite well what is in the draft law. I would just like to say that we in the Enhedslisten are quite happy that free vocational schools are now also legally called free vocational schools, because it is much more comprehensive for the work of schools, as well as the new description of subject areas and of professional schemes and approaches to pupils are described much better here and much more appropriate for the work that the schools are actually doing. We are very pleased with this in the Enhedslisten, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133630	We are now discussing Bill L 32 on the free vocational schools. The free vocational schools in our optics are somewhat of an educational sunshine story, both historically, but also right now and here. Diversity in our educational provision and especially for young people is very important, and free vocational schools play a very important role here. In fact, we in the Liberal Alliance think that we should regulate much less what is offered by educational opportunities, what these schools should call themselves, and what exactly the content should be. We shouldn't even be here to decide on that at Christiansborg. We would very much like to give much more freedom to schools so that they can develop, and fortunately we see that they do. It is good to see that there is support for it today. So in the Liberal Alliance, we'd like to support Bill L 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133735	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Lene Espersen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133745	Yes, and not surprisingly, the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. We think the bill is very good. First of all, it gives free vocational schools more freedom in order to achieve our common objective of at least 95 per cent. of all young people must receive youth education. In addition to the measures contained in the bill relating to name changes, we are very pleased that the lower age limit for a mentoring scheme for young people from 171⁄2 to 16 years of age is being lowered, so that we ensure that as many young people as possible receive an education. We are also very pleased that it is ensured that there is a premium for each pupil who, within seven months of the end of a free vocational school, is subsequently admitted to a vocational school. In fact, we think it is very important that all young people receive youth education, and for some young people this means taking a slightly different path in order to get there. And the many flexible offers are very important. Finally, it opens up the possibility of free vocational schools becoming part of the campus environment on an experimental basis, and we think that is actually a good idea. We think it is really important that we try to catch all young people wherever their interests are, and therefore this is a very good legislative proposal that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133900	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106133909	I would like to thank everyone very much for the very broad support for the draft law, in which the household and handwork schools become free vocational schools. One can clearly hear the commitment that is being backed up by the fact that it is something that has been a desire for a long time. It has also been brought out by various parties for a long time. We have also had a very good dialogue on a regular basis with the household and handwork schools, which have long called themselves free vocational schools, even before the bill changed it. It is, of course, the range of initiatives that the rapporteurs have also outlined that make it a good package because it modernises training, makes them more targeted in terms of practical and craftsmanship. In a new vocational training course, which starts here after the summer break, there are also better opportunities to work together, so with those words I would just like to thank you for your broad support. Although it is a small education, it is an important education for a target group of young people who may not always take the straight way forward, and that is why I think it is a very important common signal that we are sending out with the support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134015	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134028	The first rapporteur is Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134047	Thank you, President. As can be seen from Law No. 270 of 27 March 2012 amending the Law on Production Schools, we shall evaluate in this Assembly the certificate of competence introduced by a broad agreement in the Folketing. The bill was prompted by an agreement by the then government, i.e. Left and Conservatives, as well as supported by the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats in the agreement • A strengthened effort towards young unemployed people. The certificate of competence shall document the duration, content and outcome of the course in question, including meriting combination courses and any internship. The point of this is that the proof must be able to improve young people's chances of crediting their real skills in the transition to education or to employment. The evidence should also increase the opportunities for young people to enter into a training agreement with a company or to start a vocational training course. For the Ministry, Rambøll has carried out an evaluation of the system of certificates of competence to examine whether it has had the desired effect. It has done so, which is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134202	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134211	Our production schools undertake an important task, and the skills you get when you're young, when you're finished, it's good to have paper on. Our introduction of certificates of competence turns out to be a very good initiative, and that is why it is being made permanent. The Socialists welcome this approach and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134236	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Then we shall go to the next speaker, as it does not appear that he is in the Chamber, and it is Mrs Mie Bergmann who we will take Mr Bergmann. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party in the right order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134322	Thank you, President. Thank you for your patience. After all, it is a minor revision clause that we need to talk about, and this is because the certificate of competence which the production schools issue to their pupils when the course is completed works well and as intended, and so we must now make the proof permanent. As we are included in the agreement on the certificate of competence, we are also satisfied and therefore we can warmly support this small change which benefits the production schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134354	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Mie Bergmann of Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134403	This bill, L 33, concerns the issue of a certificate of competence in the production schools. Since 2012, all production school pupils have been able to obtain a certificate of competence at the end of a course, and for the individual student it is just so good to be able to get paper on the implementation of a professional course at a production school. When the scheme was introduced, there was an agreement that the scheme should be evaluated in 2014 or 2015 and that is what has happened now. The conclusion is that the scheme is functioning well and thus the revision provision of the law can be repealed. The certificate of competence can become a permanent arrangement, and of course we can only support that in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134452	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134503	The Danish education system is spacious and diverse, and space has been created for most people. There is room for young people who like to learn best by reading books, and there is room for young people who like to use their hands and be allowed to be practical while learning. Such diversity is unique, and SF believes that the competences acquired by young people in their training programmes should be safeguarded, whether by a academic or a practical approach. The production schools are doing a great deal of work to help achieve the objective of 95 per cent. of a youth year gets an education. In SF, we found it positive to introduce a temporary scheme in March 2012 with a certificate of competence for young people during a training course at a production school. That is why we also believe that we should make that system permanent. In this way, we will ensure that young people who start their training courses in a production school in the future will have proof of the skills they have acquired. We hope that a permanent system of certificates of competence for young people in production schools will help young people to be taken further in their later education. At the same time, the bill will ensure that the certificate of competence is placed on an equal footing with other school certificates. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134627	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134631	Thank you. The production schools fulfil a very important task in our education system. The production schools are helping to lift the pupils who have difficulty finding their way through our youth education programmes and those who, like everyone else, may find it difficult to find a job and become part of the labour market and the young people who have not figured out what direction they are going to take. At the production schools, the students acquire a number of competences and they are dressed for their further life. And the certificate of competence contributes and has certainly contributed to greater recognition of both the work of the production schools and the hard work of the pupils. That is why we in the Enhedslist are very, very pleased that the present certificate of competence will be permanent. We have worked very hard for it in the Enhedslisten and were very committed to the legislative work when it was introduced in 2012, and that is what will become permanent now, and we can so much support that with the adoption of this bill. While supporting this bill, we would urge the Minister to carry out a general review of the production school legislation so that we have legislation that is more focused on what the production schools can do, rather than being focused on what they cannot and what they cannot do. So we hope this will happen, just as in the Enhedslisten we also have a very burning desire to remove the one-year rule in the production schools, so that you can go to production school for longer than one year if that is what is needed in the individual pupil. We simply have confidence that the productions themselves can assess this without us in the Folketing having to make rules about it. But, as I said, we support this bill. We are very pleased with what we are very pleased about the fact that the system which all parties in this Parliament are supporting is now being permanentised, and we also hope, as I said, that at some point the Minister will take the initiative to carry out a general review of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106134839	We are now discussing draft legislation on production schools, L 33, on the certificate of competence. Let me start by saying that we in the Liberal Alliance support the proposal. The production schools are doing a very important job, but let me also say in the same breath that we in the Liberal Alliance are concerned about looking at the educational carousel we have also created in the field of youth education, which means that we have some young people who develop into what I would call educational nomads, that is to say, who take a lot of youth education in a row or parts of youth education, without really raising their qualifications or their chances of getting a job on the labour market. Among other things: It is, of course, the case with the current SU rules that you can start five different upper secondary educations with the SU. We also see young people who may first take a 10th grade, then they may take something at a production school and now we've also got a flex education and you take parts of eud. It is of no benefit to anyone, not even to young people, just to go and get older, if you do not get qualifications that increase your chances of being able to feed yourself. So that's something we need to look at. The production schools will continue to play a very important role, but we must have looked at this tendency to develop educational nomads. It is because we have been inconsiderate in our way of linking our education system together. But, as I said, we support L 33.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lene Espersen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135031	Thank you. After all, the bill here stems from an agreement reached between the then VK government, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats on 7 July 2011 to strengthen efforts towards young unemployed people. There was one of the initiatives, that is, this certificate of competence, which was intended to document the duration and content of specific courses and thus also the professional competences acquired. It was agreed, in order to have a guarantee that it was in fact a good arrangement to put in place an evaluation of it before it could be permanentized. The evaluation has proved to be good. The scheme has had exactly the effect we would like to have, which is why it is also very wise for the Minister, with this bill, to make the system of certificates of competence permanent in relation to the professional competences acquired by pupils in a production school. We therefore fully support the proposal. Then I will allow myself, although it is probably completely outside the Rules of Procedure, just to say thank you to all my fellow Members in here who are here now. This is the last time I've been on Parliament's platform, and it's been worn out by me for the last 20 years, both as a member of parliament and a minister. I have enjoyed it very much, and to all the education rapporteurs who have been here today, I would like to say that it has been a great pleasure to cooperate with you and to cooperate with the Minister. I wish you all good luck. I know you'll take great care of the people's rule. So thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135203	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135216	Thank you for the very broad commitment to permanentising the certificate of competence for young people at production school. It is a small but important proposal, because it means that you get the recognition and value that what you have been through is actually something that counts forward. It has worked very well as an attempt; it is now being done permanently, and I am glad that it is also something we agree on here, so that it is a way in which we can give young people who may not be able to go the very straight way through education, the necessary impetus and recognition that they will of course get something with them when they are in a production school. I would also like to say a word of thanks to Mrs Lene Espersen for her excellent cooperation on the agenda. After all, we have had the pleasure of Mrs Lene Espersen joining us as rapporteur on education for the Conservatives, and we can only say that we had a rapporteur who had 20 years of experience with her. It's been a pleasure. All kinds of good luck.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135318	Thank you to the Minister for Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141106135343	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 7 November 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
