ParlaMint-DK_20141114100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 72 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 73 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Securities Trading, etc., the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money and various other laws. Torst Schack Pedersen (V) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a pool for tourism), motion for a resolution No. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cancellation of the increase in excise duties in 2015) and motion for a resolution No. B 30 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a pool for the improvement of excise duties). Torst Schack Pedersen (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the continuation of the housing employment scheme (handicraft allowance)). Torst Schack Pedersen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of NO x motion for a resolution No. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of cost compensation for companies and foundations in tax matters). Steen Gade (SF) and others: Question No. F 9 (How does the government intend to follow up the report on the definition of Denmark's negotiating line at COP 20 this year and towards COP 21 in Paris 2015, including through alliance building towards the crucial Paris Summit, and efforts to achieve a reduction in CO2 and a sharpened climate adjustment in Denmark, based on the information and the reinforced warnings in the fifth report of the United Nations Climate Panel?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 3 November 2014, it was decided that the responsibility for offshore security was transferred from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building to the Minister for Employment per year. 1 January 2015. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 3 November 2014 stated that the responsibility for the Security Act, etc. for offshore installations for the exploration, production and transport of hydrocarbons (offshore safety law), ref. Legislative Decree No. 520 of 13 May 2013 and related tasks shall be transferred from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building to the Minister for Employment per year. 1 January 2015. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Helle Thorning- Schmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20141114100154	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114100213	In the Left, we believe that crime and punishment belong together. There is a strong signal in that, and we must stick to it. But punishment doesn't have to be prison. The use of community services instead of prison sentences can in many cases be a good alternative. However, community service is not a problem-free service. We must remember the victim and what is called the sense of justice, but which one could just call good old-fashioned justice. That is why, in the view of the Left, community service cannot be addressed by very serious personal crimes, while in other cases it can be sensible and help to reduce crime. That is why it is also important to stress that more community service must be introduced, not because we think it is a sin for the criminal, but because we want the criminal to stop being a criminal. The positive effects of community service, such as: Thus, a decline in the return to crime, the so-called relapse rate, is a crucial argument that community service should be used more often as an alternative to prison sentences, and that is why we in the Left welcome the government's proposals as a starting point. However, we have serious reservations which mean that we cannot vote in favour of the draft law in the form it now has, but if the Minister of Justice is willing to enter into substantive negotiations with the Left on the content, then a long-term law can be adopted by a broad majority. In concrete terms, the government proposes that community service should be able to be used against a broader field of forms of crime, first and foremost in the case of first-time offences that are not organised or gang-related crime, and that makes sense. However, the Left cannot accept further reductions in violence. Already today, the courts can impose community service by simple violence, but this presupposes that the perpetrator is young or that the violence is caused by previous disagreements. We believe that the limit has been drawn in the right place. In addition, we believe that the number of hours spent on community services should be increased, so that the penalty is more equivalent to a prison sentence. It seems unreasonable that two years in prison can be exchanged for just 300 hours of community service or, to put it another way, 17.520 hours in prison can be done with 300 hours of work. Or to put it another way: 1 day in prison is less than half an hour's work in a crèche, and after all it is so hard not to work in a crèche. We would therefore like to discuss the conversion table in the proposal during the committee's work. We should not underestimate the deterrent effect of the penalty. That is why it is also important that new crimes committed in the probationary period have consequences, and that is why we warmly support the proposal to tighten up new crimes in the probationary period, so that there is a residual punishment, even if the criminal has carried out his community service. This helps to underline the seriousness of the fact that a conditional sentence on terms of community service can still trigger a relatively long unconditional prison sentence. People who in their young years commit something criminal and receive a prison sentence are at risk of getting into bad company while they are in prison. The negative influence of other inmates may have an impact on whether the young person spends the rest of his life in a criminal career. Unfortunately, it is well known that a prison stay can lead to more crime and that some hardcore criminals even use the prison to recruit new gang members. That is why, as I said, we are in favour of increased use of community services, but we are awaiting further consideration of the proposal before we can express our final position, just as we have a number of issues that we want to clarify. This concerns, among other things: on the control of private companies, where criminals now have to be able to carry out community services. It is important to ensure that there can be no abuse, but the most important thing is the issue of violence. So if the government insists that 11⁄2 years of imprisonment for completely unprovoked violence committed by an adult must be able to cope with 300 hours of community service, then it will be without the support of the Left, and my guess is that it will be without the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114100613	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114100621	Crime in Denmark goes down in virtually every area. This is welcome, because it means that fewer Danes end up as victims of the totally unacceptable actions of criminals. We Social Democrats are concerned about preventing crime. The fewer those who commit crime, the fewer are victims, and we are very concerned that those who violate the law will be punished to ensure that the crime does not happen again. It is against this background that we are standing in this Chamber today. Because, of course, it has to have a consequence if you are criminalising the Community rules of the game. It is at the heart of our legal society that there is a consequence, a punishment if you break the law. But why are we punishing? That question I know shares the waters among the political parties that have gathered in this Chamber. Let me therefore state quite clearly the position of the Socialist Group: punishment is about justice. It is about the consequence of breaking the law. But we must never, never punish for the punishment. On the other hand, it must be the aim to ensure that the crime is not committed or that the crime is not repeated. The draft law we are discussing today reflects this very view. The proposal aims to ensure the extension of the use of community services as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment in the case of first-time offences not of the nature of organised or gang-related crime. Examples are cases involving simple violence. In so doing, I would also reject the myth that has been advanced that violent persons who have been responsible for the death of another person should enter a kindergarten directly rather than go to prison. So that's not the case with this bill. We have asked experts in the form of the Criminal Law Council to assess whether further use of community service has a positive effect. And the recommendations are clear: it makes sense to use this form of punishment. This can help to prevent criminals from repeating their unacceptable deeds. In addition to the further use of community services, it is proposed that for the slightly longer sentences of more than 3 months in prison, a system should be introduced so that new crime triggers a residual sentence equivalent to one third of the conditional prison sentence once community service has been carried out. This means that new crime in the probationary period is being punished more severely than it is today. The proposal also means that up to a third of the community service must be able to be involved in a special treatment or training programme in accordance with the provisions of the criminal justice system. As a legal rapporteur, I very often meet former criminals, and it is striking how many of them point to the fact that it was first the recognition of being a part of community and being something for others and doing something for others who got them out of crime. And that's exactly what this proposal supports. As the legal rapporteur, I also meet many victims of crime, and yes, they are, of course, concerned that it has a consequence for their perpetrator that this has caused damage. But I must also say that I do not think I have met a single person who does not hope that the perpetrator will think better and put the criminal career behind him. And that is why it is clear that we need to use the most effective tools to prevent the crime from repeating itself. With those words, I would like to say that we Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101005	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101014	As the draft law states, the aim is to increase the use of community services as a substitute for unconditional imprisonment. And it is not because I or the Danish People's Party are opposed to community service, it may be quite good in some situations, but in this case it is proposed that in several cases of simple violence community service should be used when it is a first case, and I am, to say the least, deeply shocked about that. We have a Justice Minister who wants to be the guardian of the law, as the tough one, and here I have to admit that the Minister of Justice appears infinitely weak. From the bill, you can also conclude that it's okay to knock you down on the street. The first time you're rewarded, as sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned, with a little community service like this every now and then, when it can fit into your other calendar, and the second time the hammer falls then. But I do not believe in the preventive effect that the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned. I do not see that there is a preventive effect in being sentenced to community service for knocking a person down the streets for the first time. The argument should then be that then the offender will not be exposed to these negative influences that may be in a prison. Perhaps the offender should have thought of that before the violence was committed. And then I could be a little more worried about the negative consequences for the victim and the victim isn't much thought about in this bill. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party does not want to relax in this area, we want to sharpen the punishment for violent psychopaths. I do not know if the Minister saw that during the week there was a television programme on police work, where it was very clear how little respect is given to the police when they come out and have to do their job. Shoutings are being made against those whom I do not wish to stand here and repeat from Parliament's platform. And even the police must also suffer the torment, that is, when you finally catch these punks, you can meet them when you pick up your kids in the day care center, because then they've got some community service. So it's not animated for the police's work. At least it's nothing there, if I was a police officer, would make me want to do my job more. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party would also like to focus on in connection with such a law is the whole matter of fines. It has been mentioned in the bill that the possibility of imposing a conditional fine will be abolished, i.e. a fine that is not payable. It also seems grotesque in itself, but I understand that it is so forward-looking that all fines will be unconditional. And I could also imagine that it was one of the things you could convert into community service, because many of these fines are simply not paid, and then you could pool them a little, and then those people could work it off instead. There could, of course, be quite, very good community service. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen did a little bit about the conversion table. I have taken the example of 50 days in prison. It is then converted into 60 hours of community service and must be settled within 6 months. It is 1,200 hours of prison, converted into 60 hours of community service, which can even be distributed over six months. It is 1 hour every 3 days, as I mentioned earlier, when it can fit into the lunch break or at some other time. And that is simply not right. It doesn't seem like a punishment in my optics. There's also a little something about custody. It must then be set off against the community service, and it will actually end up with the fact that society is almost going to owe the criminal some kind of service, because often the detention will extend beyond the modest community service that is being imposed. So there are a lot of things in this that make it completely inedible for the Danish People's Party. The last thing I want to mention is that the community service must be able to take place in private companies. Yes, but that is a very good thing, because the moment some companies run out of cheap Eastern European labour, you can then get some in community service to carry out the tasks instead. However, it is just as in the word that community service is, in other words, that criminals should do society a service; they should not be rewarded with access to the private labour market. And there are lots of tasks with which to serve society. If you go for a walk in the streets of Copenhagen, you can see that it is flowing with filth and crap everywhere, so it was appropriate for you to be able to assign the people who have to perform community service. There are plenty of older people who are not able to cut their hedges themselves etc., and you could make these people do that too. And finally, if you take a trip along the Danish highways, you will also see that it flows with garbage everywhere. So there are enough tasks you can do as a community service, you don't have to take up ordinary jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101531	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101534	Thank you. It is, in fact, a very, very simple question. The rapporteur himself refers to whether or not community service has a preventive effect, that is to say whether it prevents people from committing crime, that there is a prospect that if they do, they can get community service or prison for that matter. So says Mr. Kim Christensen, you don't believe that community service does. I would like to hear: is there any research that indicates that community service has a less general preventive effect than for example? prison term?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101621	I could then turn to Mrs Pernille Skipper's question a little bit about my name Christiansen, forgiven, nor have I been in here for so long and say: Are there any research results that show that it has a beneficial effect that it has a preventive effect? I don't think there is. Yes, it is some advice that has been set up, some lawyers who say so, but I am still away from the same conviction. I find it difficult to see that having 30 hours of community service rather than having 4 months of unconditional imprisonment should have a more preventive effect. At least I know what would deter me the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101705	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101707	I find this exciting, so the next time we have doubts about a preventive effect, a form of punishment, we ask Mr. Kim Christiansen on what would deter Mr. Kim Christiansen mostly from committing crime, and then we legislate from it. I can tell you that all the research that is in this area and that I have come close to seeing something shows that it does not matter whether there is any prospect of community service or prison when you talk about the deterrent effect, that is, the preventive effect. On the contrary, social services have the effect of being at a lower risk of committing crime again. But I don't know if it's anything, sir. Kim Christiansen doesn't believe either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101759	Of course, I would like to thank Mrs Pernille Skipper for her confidence in consulting the Danish People's Party in the future when it comes to dealing with legislation in this area. We would very much like to contribute to that. Of course it's a matter of faith, but whether you believe one thing or the other, there are two things in this. One is whether you believe that it has a preventive effect, and I do not, no matter how many wise people can sit and try to convince me of it, I simply do not believe it. Then there is the second thing, and that is the concern for the victims. So there are both victims and relatives, and for the sake of their sense of justice, I think that we also need to punish people who commit crime and not just reward them with a job down at the local gas station. So that's the other angle of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101845	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114101852	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by saying that we Radicals can support this proposal. We support the fact that we constantly think over and over again about how we can organize our criminal system more intelligently, because we have to punish so that it works, and here community service is one of the pillars. Firstly, community service ensures that people are more able to hold onto the good elements of their lives. It may be work, it may be school, it may be family etc. Secondly, community service does that petty criminals do not meet hardened criminals and get a lot of new bad playmates inside the prison. It is simple sociology: you are simply influenced by those around you, and we must try to keep petty criminals away from the more hardcore elements of the criminal environment. Thirdly, community service means that, as a criminal, we are allowed to give something back to society in the service that we are doing. That is why this government has also in the past extended the use of community services. At that time it was in relation to the maximum number of hours. Now we're ready again to use this tool even more. However, it is important to emphasise that not everyone should be involved in community service, but we Radicals believe that more people can well be subject to community service conditions, as proposed by the proposal. In particular, we think so, because the draft law also envisages tightening up the terms of the trial period laid down even after serving one's hours in community service. We have, of course, had to consider this part from a radical point of view. I'd like to be honest with you. However, we can live with the balance that lies in the proposal. Last but not least, I would like to highlight something that is quite pioneering in many ways, namely that after the assessment part of the community service can now also take place in an education or treatment programme. I simply think that is excellent in many ways. I myself have been out in the past to advocate similar ideas, so I can only back that up, and I think that it will be particularly good for criminals who are harassing abuse while being criminals and young criminals. These are really some groups on which we need to focus our attention. This is a good and well-worked proposal from the Criminal Code Council, which I honestly believe we are forgetting to thank and instead take credit for the work they are constantly doing in modernising our penal code. However, I would like to pay tribute to this work and, like so many times in the past, it is a thorough and solid legal work that makes our penal code better and more modern. So, overall, we Radicals can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102133	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102136	Thank you. I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Jeppe Mikkelsen about petty criminals. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen mentioned the word petty criminals, and I would like to hear what Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen's definition of petty criminals is. Is simple violence in the definition of petty crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102201	We can always discuss that. I guess we have different definitions in the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. Actually, I almost hope we do. But when I say that we should not mix too many smaller criminals, petty criminals, we can call them what you want, with the hardcore criminals, then there is a good point in it, because if, for example, you do. as a young person has committed simple acts of violence in a bar, you have been drunk, you have not thought about, you must of course have a punishment. But rather than putting the person in prison and letting the person play with HA and gang members from other environments, I think we should actually look at whether we can punish alternatively. Yeah. Then we can call them petty criminals or less criminals, but we certainly agree that it is bad if they become as hardcore criminals as gang members. And there is just a tendency for prisons to become a criminal factory sometimes, and we radicals want to help fight that. It's not like I think criminals need to be nurtured, but it's about avoiding as many victims as possible in this society. We have to fight against more people in this society who are being subjected to a crime. I think that is my prime objective as a legal rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102307	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102310	I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that social services, as I said, can be useful in some situations. Now we have found out that violence is petty crime. As far as the second point is concerned, as Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen mentions about the bad influence in prison, I would say that it is surely not up to us here in the Folketing to legislate that the weak inmates should avoid the strong employees. I guess that's something we have to leave to the Department of Criminal Services. I agree that you can just try to separate people who serve so that you do not put first-time inmates together with hardcore criminals who have little experience in this area. I very much agree with that, but I still believe that it is not our job to stand here and sort it out. I think we should leave that to the Criminal Services. I would like to know if the rapporteur could agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102358	In this respect, I agree that, of course, criminal justice must try as well, it is possible, to ensure that people who are once in prison are not inspired and recruited, for example. The biker gang environment or for that matter gets other good ideas. So I agree with that, but I still believe that we can do more to ensure that people do not end up in prison at all. It also has a preventive effect which has an impact on whether people are committing crime in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102427	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102431	Now Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen is a case of violence in which a young person has been provoked in a pub and has therefore committed violence. It is said that in such cases community service should be available. That's what you do today. That is the case law today. Now we are dealing with a legislative proposal that seeks to change the case law, so that the courts also have to do community service in cases where there are no previous disputes when the perpetrator is not young. It is said that there should be no particular thing that applies to cases of simple violence. The only thing to look at is whether this is a first-time criminal, so also in the case of mature people who are completely unprovoked for no reason attacking others and engaging in violence against others, we must be able to use community service. Is the government prepared to enter into a discussion on whether we can avoid the extension of the concept of violence envisaged in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102543	As the draft law stands, I think it is a good thing, but we are always open to negotiation, and I think that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen was quite constructive in his rapporteur's speech a little earlier, and I did not have any comments on it either, so I am quite willing to discuss this with Mr. Jørgensen. Jan E. Jørgensen and Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102603	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102605	That sounds very good, and I look forward to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114102619	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to say the following: community service is a sensible sanction with many advantages. First of all, it has proved to be a less repetitious crime. In this way, we save more victims an unpleasant experience, and we also save the community budget, because prisons are expensive and not always the best solution when it comes to avoiding new crime or keeping the convicted person in an otherwise reasonable life course. So even if I don't think it should be necessary, I'd like to give it a whip that community service is a punishment. What we are discussing is what penalties can be reasonable and whether we should use the most sensible penalties. It is also fundamentally important, at least in the SF, that the sentenced person delivers something back to society for the damage he or she has caused. It therefore requires active action on the part of the convicted person, and it is an important step in recognising that damage has actually been caused. Finally, however, it also means that the community service can be solved so that it is parallel to education or work and thus ensures that those people move forward in their lives so that they do not have the opportunity to further destroy their own chances of life. That is why the SF can support the proposal, which extends the use of community services to several forms of crime, which means that private companies can now also be used as services and that treatment and training programmes can be included. So it offers new opportunities to play, and what is most important is, in fact, that we reduce crime in our society. It is clear that, during the trial period, the issue of tightening the penalties for new crime may not be what we think is most important in this context. The knowledge we have shows that sharpened penalties do not reduce crime. But, on the other hand, we can see the need for the extension of the system to new and slightly more serious forms of crime, to break the trust contract that is now also a community service, to be able to hang together and keep up with it. In the SF, we will not let that element stand in the way of more people being given the chance to be punished as a community service, and that is what the draft law opens up for. It is our clear hope that, as a convicted person, we will seize the opportunities that lie ahead. That would be very good for the individual. It will also be good for society and there will not be so much new crime. Finally, I must warn that the SF will follow up at the Annual Meeting of the Association of Judges, where several rapporteurs declared their willingness to ensure that anklet chains can also be judged in the courts. I hope that we can either agree on an amendment to this bill or alternatively a report. It makes sense that the courts, which already have a lot of information on the conditions and personal circumstances of the convicted, can also decide whether ankle chains or community service can also be the way forward. So we basically support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103011	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103031	Thank you. What is called the general preventive effect of community service, that is. the overall deterrent effect of the community service is no less than the deterrent effect of the general conditional prison. Even if the Danish People's Party feels otherwise, it is a fact. At the same time, it is also not the case that individuals who are actually sentenced to community service instead of prison are more likely to commit crime again. On the contrary, there are far fewer people who fall back on new crime if they come into community service and thus avoid the negative influences of a prison stay. Therefore, if you have a reasonably logical and objective approach to legal policy, it is very positive that the scope of community service should be extended. As there are several consultation responses which also point out in connection with this bill, it would be useful to consider extending to other forms of crime, for example. drug crime, if, at the same time, we combine social services with other conditions, such as treatment, which the draft law also opens up to, and that is also positive. When we talk in the Enhedslisten about preventing people from committing new crime and having smart, intelligent forms of punishment, we are not doing so for the sake of the criminal, but we are doing so for the sake of the potential new victims who are in society and for the sake of our society in general. As the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, this bill also means that a breach of conditions should be punished more severely, but there is no indication that such a threat of serving in breach of conditions would reduce relapse in the trial period. It recognizes both the Criminal Code Council and the Government by pointing out the general sense of justice as it is called, as a reason why there is to be this here what should you say increase in punishment. In principle, I think this is one of the worst arguments in legal policy at all. I am aware that there is what can be called a sense of justice and that there must be forms of punishment, even if they are not necessarily always particularly wise, but I think that is actually a relatively small argument, because it appeals more to irrational feelings than to what is reasonable and what can prevent crime in the future. As far as the content of the community service itself is concerned, I must also say that we are a little concerned about this extension to include, as we might call it, private companies. As the Criminal Code Council also notes, community service has both a punitive and a restorative function. So the idea is not only that you should pay for your crime, but also that the actions you then give back have a socially beneficial character, in other words that you give back to the society you have damaged. There are some fine adjustments, but it is worrying, we believe in the Enhedslisten, that it can be done by private companies. First of all, because the restorative nature will fall into the background, that is to say, that you no longer give back to society but give to a private company. Secondly, it is extremely worrying that consideration of the consequences of this is limited to what I am now quoting: it must be possible to do so without distorting competition. It must be possible to do so, I think there are some details missing, to put it mildly. How can this be done without distorting competition? How are we going to define this so that there is no cheap labour that prints wages? In the hearing note, the Ministry replies that it must be found out by the Department of Criminal Services. I have great confidence in the capabilities of the Department of Justice, but I simply think it is irresponsible to leave it up to them, and I would like the current Minister of Justice and, I must point out, former Minister of Employment to consider whether this will have a negative effect on social dumping, i.e. whether it will be wage-pressing. I will use my very last seconds to say that, of course, there is also some economy to take into account in this. There's both something that gets cheaper and something that gets more expensive when you move around like this, but we can't read what's behind it, and we really want to see the figures, the calculations that are behind it, that you think this should be cost-neutral. There's some evidence that you've kind of smelled that way. But we would like to ask a written question about that, because then I think the Minister for Justice has a better chance of answering it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103537	There are a few brief comments, first one from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103542	I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper, in relation to the rapporteur's speech, whether the rapporteur could elaborate a little, where the Enhedslisten can be seen more specifically as extending the use of community services in cases of personal crime. Is Enhedslisten e.g. Is it a good idea to extend the use of community services in some cases to cases of rape or serious violence? I understand that the rapporteur and Enhedslisten want to expand it, but could the rapporteur not elaborate on where one might think one could go much further than is the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103625	I think the example I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech was in relation to drug crime, especially if it is combined with treatment, which is also being put in place for this new legislative proposal to actually be able to do so. So it is not Enhedslisten's intention to propose that rape or murder should be included in community service. But we are very closely following the research into whether this can be applied to other forms of personal crime, of course with regard to the fact that there is this sense of justice, even though it is an illogical argument. But we would very much like to see community service expanded as much as it can at all, where it is still useful and useful and with the aim of reducing the number of victims in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103712	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103714	In other words, in cases where, for example, a victim of violence has suffered physical or psychological harm, does the Enhedslisten not, as a rule, have any problem in extending the use of community service? I ask because the Criminal Code Council says that you have to be very reluctant about that particular part. I just have to say, as I see it, that Enhedslisten says, whether it is true that you do not have that restraint. And the restraint of the Criminal Code is due, among other things, to. also the sense of justice which Enhedslisten acknowledges to a lesser extent. So that is just what I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: is this how one can see the policy of Enhedslisten in this area? And I heard about drug cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103759	We listen very carefully to the Criminal Law Council when they give consideration, and also when they say that we should be reluctant to do something for the sake of the sense of justice. Then we'll listen to them. In addition, I would like to say that it is not the position of Enhedslisten that politicians should stand and find specific cases and punishments on them. I know that the Left now and again wants to do so from the platform. We do not; we leave that up to the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103825	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103827	Thanks for the speech. I just have one question. Mrs Pernille Skipper was worried a little about whether it was now a good idea to have community service in private business companies, and I just think it sounds like Mrs Pernille Skipper is guilty of a misunderstanding, because it is said that when you have to have community service in a private company, you do not give anything back to society. But doesn't Mrs. Pernille Skipper confuse the state with society? After all, something is being given back to society, but not to the state, and this is not a state service, it is a community service. So if it is society that has to be given back to, is it not actually a positive thing that it is not only in the public domain that we have to give back, but also in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114103917	Look, it's funny when the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance are discussing again, right? I'll start by correcting Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and say that now it is not the case that everything that is not private companies is the state. There is certainly something called civil society, non-profit organisations, municipalities, regions, and I believe that all this can be done by community service. I believe that something is being given back. I also believe, of course, that private companies are an important and central part of our society, but nevertheless those companies have a profit in mind and as their purpose. I even think that Simon Emil Ammitzbøll thinks that they have a really important thing to do; yes, I can still do a little bit more, and it does of course make a difference, not least because people who are free workers, in and when they serve community services, can unfortunately function as wage printers in the private sector, because you can suddenly use this free labour instead of employing ordinary workers, who, after all, need a job and want to make a living.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104028	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104030	I am just wondering why Mrs Pernille Skipper does not think that companies and the private sector should also have the opportunity to do something good, as it were. You'd think Mrs. Pernille Skipper would like that. I think the companies are doing a lot of good all the time, but I sometimes have some doubts about what Enhedslisten thinks about that part. If we now accept that society is made up of three parts: public, private and civil society, then I am surprised that the Enhedslisten will like to reserve the two of the three main elements of society, because then it will not be community service, then it will be two-thirds community service. I can't believe the government here is actually offering that now we can finally turn community service into community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104123	I am certainly not opposed to private companies being allowed to do something good and contribute to anything other than profit making. On the contrary, I think that some of the projects in which what should I say, in fact, support private companies in hiring former criminals, are really, really good even. I mean, giving a person, like... has served a prison sentence, a job not a place where they can come and work for free, but real work is one of the most important things to do to ensure that they do not return to new crime. And yes, I think that private companies should open up a little more. Having said that, there is, of course, the big difference between private companies and civil society and the public sector, if we say so in such a way that there is profit in private companies. This means that free labour can lead to wage pressure. I know, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll doesn't care about us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104221	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104235	It is always a pleasure to discuss how we punish people who commit crimes. A number of people have mentioned why we are actually punishing. It can be said that this is both a good question and that there can be many good answers to it. In fact, we are probably punishing for a number of different reasons. We have talked a lot about today, that we are punishing because of deterrence and that we are punishing for preventing repetition, and these are clearly two essential elements in relation to punishment; but there are also other elements that are important, for example. to avoid vigilantes. If a penalty is not given on behalf of those who have been subjected to abuse, one might fear that it would be something that one would do privately, and it is of course important that it is something that society and the state do. Then there is justice for the victim too, and I think that may not have filled as much in the debate as it should, because of course it is also an essential element, namely that you think it is reasonable, when you yourself have been subjected to a crime, that you do not just see that the criminal gets away, as it were. It is good to hear that there is broad support for community service as such. I also think that there are many good elements in draft law L 50. I think, as opposed to the previous rapporteur, that it is very good that we can now also provide community services in private businesses. I think it is a good thing that there will be a chance of a combination of judgments. I think it is a good thing that there will be an opportunity for you to have an extra penalty if you do not comply with the conditions. There's really a lot of good in this. The general view is that first-time criminals should be given greater status to community service, so we are also in favour of the Liberal Alliance. One can be a little concerned about the specific offences, i.e. how far one should go and still be able to provide community service. If I could, of course, as a representative of the Liberal Alliance, then I would say that it should be primarily in first-time violations and primarily in mild cases. When you look at the table and how far it goes up, compared to how hard the penalties can be, and at the same time you talk about community service, we can be a little concerned at the top of it, if I may say so. Is it really reasonable that there should be community service? However, we would like to make a positive contribution to the work on the legislative proposal. I think I will put some written questions to get some clarification, perhaps also some concessions from the Minister, who knows. But overall, we are positive about the idea of using more community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104601	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104615	On behalf of Mr. Tom Behnke, I give the following speech to the rapporteur. The Conservative People's Party is very sceptical about the Minister's proposal to increase the use of community services. We share the view that community service can be a suitable form of sanction in the mildest cases where conditions exist, but we believe that the limit has been reached on who or what types of crime can be sanctioned by community service. With the enlargement proposed by the government, we are far too far in the direction of community service being an appropriate sanction. The minister writes that community service is good because there is much lower relapse in those who have been sentenced to community service compared to those who have received an unconditional sentence. But the argument does not stand, because the fact is that today it is the mildest criminal acts that can be subject to probation on terms of community service, whereas those in prison have committed very serious crime or repeated crime. So those we put in prison are already gross criminals, and there is, of course, a greater relapse. We can take part in the parts that concern the possibility of community services being provided by private companies, and we think it is right that an increased penalty should be met by renewed crime in the probationary period. However, we would have liked the government to have tightened up completely in relation to those who commit renewed crime. If it were up to us, the rest of the sentence would always be triggered completely by renewed crime, one by one. We cannot support the proposal, because we do not agree with extending the use of community services to more and thus extending beyond what we call the mildest crimes. It should never be the case that victims can meet the perpetrator on the street shortly after being subjected to a serious crime. That is simply not fair. Grove criminals are going to prison; that is both reasonable and reasonable. That is why we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114104816	Thank you. I would actually like to start by thanking you for a very, very good debate, I think. I am not used to being in the Parliamentary Chamber with the Parliamentary Legal Rapporteurs, but I am constantly happier and happier for you in the sense that I think that in the debates that I have so far been a part of, it has succeeded in having a proper legal policy discussion, and I think that suits the area and parliament. I also think that some very relevant issues have been raised in the course of the debate. First of all, I would like to say that I feel basically that we must be just as tough as society in the face of hard crime, just as forceful as we must be in preventing where we can at all. And it goes without saying that when, for one reason or another, a person commits serious crime, whether it be in the gang-rockery, drugs, violence or anything that violates other people, for example. rape, which has also been in the Chamber today, must, of course, be promptly punished and sanctioned by society, and the prison, as far as these types of crime are concerned, is the most common and should also be the preferred choice. Having said that, we also know that there are other forms of crime, and we also know that people's way to that crime can be very different. With this proposal, we want to open up an increase in the use of community services, and there are several reasons for this. We know that it works; that fewer people fall back on crime and that the community service and the framework around it are some of the things that can, so to speak, bring people back on track. It is also, of course, because we want to say that there is a difference between whether you have ended up in a criminal career or have chosen a criminal career and are there or whether, for one reason or another, you are going to commit some kind of criminal act. There, of course, we as a society must be able to organise ourselves in a way that will, hopefully, allow what can only be an isolated criminal act to be allowed to be only that which does not, therefore, encourage further crime. That is why we are quite concerned, to the extent that we can, to keep many of our first-time criminals away from prisons, because prisons are a raw environment, and we also know that, of course, there are some who are going to stay in prison both too far away from their ordinary lives, but also run the risk of getting into the hands of people whom they are not going to be in the hands of, and by that way perhaps becoming even more criminal. After all this has been said, I also basically feel that it is always more sin for the victim than it is for the perpetrator. That is why it is, of course, important for us to choose the forms of punishment and sanctions which, on the one hand, hold the individual responsible for its action and, on the other hand, of course take account of the victim who may be left after a crime. That's why we have to keep our tongues straight in our mouths when it comes to violence. It is already the case today that community service is being used in a number of cases about what we call simple violence. It can be kicking, fist punching, what doesn't happen systematically. Where exactly the line is drawn between the simple violence and the gross violence, I think no one can draw, but it is certainly important for me to say that when it comes to assessing whether, in each case, community service is the right form of sanction, one must, of course, keep one's tongue straight in the mouth and be fully aware of what kind of violence it is. It is not because we have to defend violence in any way. I do not want to do that and I do not think that we should do it. But, of course, there is a difference between the motive behind the violence and its consequences. We know that community service is being used by simple violence today and also with a beneficial effect. We want there to be a little more use of community service in cases of simple violence. It will always be based on a concrete assessment, which is why we must, of course, be extremely sharp in assessing whether it is the right thing to do or not. Then there has also been discussion about whether we should extend community service to private companies as well. I'm gonna be one of them. I should like to ask you specifically to deal with social dumping. Now I would like to say that I have used private companies for a great deal in my years as Minister for Employment, and I would very much like to do so when it comes to community service. I think that it is a fundamentally wrong premise, whether it be business practices, wage subsidies, useful jobs, utility or community service, to compare it in any way with the spread of social dumping in our ordinary labour market. I myself have no problem whatsoever with involving private companies in the use of community services, on the contrary. I would also like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this is not about giving some people a job, it is about imposing a sanction which we know has a positive effect, and being able to be at a workplace with colleagues, being brought into a normal situation, while at the same time being sanctioned, I think, there is a lot of scam in it. But of course I would also like to take the discussion with Enhedslisten, which has some reservations about the use of private companies. So the Left, I think, also raises a relevant discussion about the conversion table, so we have found the right balance between what could have been a prison sentence and how many hours of community service are being sentenced. I will also take that discussion very, very much. Overall, I believe that some important issues have been raised. I would very much like to stick to the fundamental principle that I myself base the issue of community service, namely that when it comes to serious crime, we should not be reluctant as a society to respond, sanction and punish. And it must never be the case that there is any individual who can disclaim responsibility for his own actions. On the other hand, and at the same time, it is so crucial that we are better at preventing crime, that we are better at ensuring that fewer people fall back into crime, and that we therefore, for example, are better able to do so. As the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also said, it is always open to debate what forms are taking us in the direction we want to take in legal policy in Denmark. So thank you for one, I think, open and constructive debate. As far as the individual elements are concerned, let us dig into them in the specific committee procedure. I look forward to that, and I hope that we will be able to reach a fairly broad agreement on the proposal. It may be that it will require some adjustments, and I am very open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105518	There are three short comments, first Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105523	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister two questions. One is in relation to the fact that the draft law describes the Criminal Law Council's review of the current rules of community service and that the community service should be used with caution in relation, for example, to: Violence, robbery and other things. When you look into the practice study carried out by the Criminal Code Council, you find that it is in fact in connection with a very, very large proportion of violent cases, that is, cases of simple violence, where community service has been used. This will lead me immediately to conclude that practice has developed somewhat further than what the legislator originally intended when it made that legislation. That was, of course, many years ago, but there is my one question to the Minister then whether she agrees that it is possible to say that practice has gone on in relation to what was originally intended. That was one thing. The second is about the conversion and whether the Minister agrees with it. It may be that you have to look at it that someone, if they get five months in prison, can get rid of the five months in prison against having 100 hours of community service. Is the Minister prepared to look at whether there is the right balance in the conversion as there is in the current system?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105639	Yes, there is a commitment to the latter, i.e. whether we will look at whether we have found the right balance point; I will always be willing to uncover that. In relation to the first, that is, the fact that, on the one hand, we have to be careful about the use of the instrument and, on the other hand, we can see that it actually has a fairly wide spread, including in the case of simple violence, I would say that there does not necessarily have to be a contradiction between the two. Hopefully, for each case, there is reason to consider carefully whether it is the right thing to do or not. So I certainly do not think that, on the basis of the figures alone, it is possible to assess whether the practice has gone. On the other hand, we can see that the alternative forms of service, even in the case of ankle chains, are actually in progress, so I was going to say that it is being used more and more and I think it is doing so for good reason, because we know that prison is the ultimate, for good and evil, in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105741	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105743	Thank you, and thank you for the commitment to the last, that is to say to look at the conversion. The reason I asked about the practice is that it is a standing discussion. We are parties that want violence to be punished, including simple violence, harder than it is today, and also to change legislation. At the same time, there is the community service, which is being set up, and it can then be concluded that practice has progressed quite considerably. Then it is said here that it is fine, because it has not led to a major relapse. However, I can say that, from the outset, we in the Left believe that this is a relevant political discussion, and we want to penalise some things harder, and then practice just goes into urban and rural law, and I think that is actually problematic. That was the fundamental discussion that I would try to get the Minister to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105828	Well, I think that is a relevant discussion, but it is also relevant to discuss what is happening in the field of violence. As I started by saying, I never think that the use of crime should be defended, nor, and perhaps not especially, when it comes to violence, but equally important it is to say so, just as important I think it is also possible to say that it is the basis for the debate on violence, that it can arise for many different reasons and that it can have many different motives. In my view, there is a difference between whether this is an isolated incident which is serious enough in itself, but which does not necessarily express anything more general, and the use of violence as a form of expression or as a systematic one, for example. with other perpetrators as well. And we must be able to distinguish between that in the way we organise it, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105918	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114105921	Now I do not know if you can hear an outstretched hand, but a stretched hand came from the Minister, and we on the Left are pleased about that. As it is today, there are approx. 40% of cases of simple violence, i.e. section 244, where community service is imposed already today and then there is 60% where unconditional imprisonment is imposed. Since, as a general rule, community service is used for first-time criminals, there may well be many of these 60% who have committed violence before and are therefore unable to cope with community service. So we can see that community service is already being used quite a lot in cases of simple violence. What is then proposed in the draft law is to expand, in addition to the very many people who today receive community service, we want to expand even more. What is being proposed is that community service should be used also in cases where there have been no prior disagreements between the victim and the perpetrator, and also in cases where there is no young perpetrator. Only if there is organized crime or if the victim has suffered significant physical or psychological damage should one be reluctant, and then, as a rule, one should also be reluctant if the violence has been perpetrated against a particularly defenceless victim. However, I am hearing the Minister in this way, and I would ask the Minister to confirm that the Minister is willing to look at whether we should not extend the use of community services for simple violence, because it is already being used quite a lot today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110105	My impression is that it is being used for good reason, even in the case of simple violence, and fortunately we are in the situation of some who commit crime, which relates to simple violence, once in their lives, and then they stop again because, in one way or another, we succeed in getting them right. And that is the best thing, that is, that violence does not become an expression and that violence does not start to be part of a pattern of action. Although even simple violence is serious enough in itself there is almost nothing worse as a human being than being subjected to violence by another • we must try to turn it to what it hopefully can be in many cases, namely an isolated episode. There, I think, community service... there's also something that suggests... that may be the right instrument. So I am not myself concerned about the enlargement that we are proposing, because it is in line with the practice that has developed. However, it is clear that we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths, and we must not go down that road too far until we approach something which is gross violence, and I do not think that community service should be used there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110209	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110211	In the Left, we believe that we have gone far enough along this road, to stay in the minister's imagery, and, if there is good reason in the cases where community service is being imposed today, it might perhaps also be concluded that there is good reason why community service should not be dealt with in further cases. But I hear it as if the Minister is willing to negotiate, but the Minister should also know that this is heartblood for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110239	Well, I hear it is. My starting point in many cases is that if there are good and wise views from other political parties too, we must involve them in the legislative work, but here there is a real disagreement, and I would very, very much like to discuss it, because I do not think it is problematic that we go a little further down that road. What I am saying is that we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths, because there are limits to how far we can go. What we must of course bear in mind is that it will always depend on a concrete assessment whether or not community service is right and, of course, we must also have confidence that the concrete, correct decision will be taken in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110326	No one else has asked to speak, so thank you to the Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110340	The debate is open. It's the Attorney General who's opening the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114110403	Then we move, it has to be said, something away from the national scene to something that seems a little more locally grounded and motivated, but there must of course be room for that too. In any case, there is an important discussion on the whole question of proximity to the judicial service. I think it's something that matters to a lot of people that you don't have to travel too far and that you have a sense and a knowledge and a real experience that quality is high wherever you live in Denmark. But it may be that we should try to start by looking back on some of what has already been agreed in the Folketing, because we are dealing with a judicial reform which has been adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing on the basis of quite extensive work in some different expert committees. There are a number of interrelated reforms in the reform and they were all aimed at modernising and improving the Danish courts in order both to preserve and strengthen the courts as the main forum for resolving legal disputes. I believe that what was the political motive and desire was to ensure greater and more efficient urban courts and, at the same time, to ensure that everywhere the professional environment is necessary in order for all citizens, wherever we live, to be able to count on settling cases in the courts at a uniform and high level of professionalism. That was the background, which it is worth holding on to in every way possible. One of the things that was decided at the time was to bring the judges together in some strong professional units at the 24 city courts. The Court of Justice reform and the other reforms which have been implemented at the same time or later, including judicial reform, jury reform, reform of the small-scale case and registration reform, are closely linked. Several of these reforms were considered impossible at the time without the merger of jurisdictions being carried out, among other things. because the task could not be solved by small town dishes. The aim of the reform was to ensure that the individual city courts became resource-friendly and independently able to meet the demands of the future for the city courts. At the same time, for reasons of proximity, which are part of what we are discussing today, they should not be greater than was necessary in order to meet those requirements. There are some places where the jurisdictions cover some geographically very large areas, and branch offices were then set up in different places in Denmark. As provided for in the judicial reform, the so-called citizens' cases are those dealt with at the branch offices, because it is obviously important that it is close to the citizens. The cases which can be expected as a citizen to be dealt with at the branch offices include: death-change cases, ordinary bailiffs, debt relief cases and minor criminal proceedings. Cases such as: confessions and court cases and civil cases involving many local Witnesses can be dealt with at the branch office. It is the individual Presidents of the Court who, after discussion with the Court of Justice and the local actors, including local authorities and lawyers, determine the arrangements for the distribution of cases between the main office and the branch office in those places. You can, for example. See the guidelines for the distribution between Holstebro and Thisted on the Court's website. The Court of Justice has informed me that, in cooperation with the presidents of the city courts, they ensure the most appropriate settlement of the case and administer the work of the branch office in accordance with the conditions of the reform. It goes without saying that I and I also believe that the Danish Parliament is of course committed to the fact that the division of tasks is in line with the prerequisites of the reform and reflects an appropriate balance between the need for the effective conduct of cases at a high professional level and the need for closeness in the judicial service. Now it is Thisted that I have the feeling that is an essential reason why we are discussing this today, and so let me say a few words about the special circumstances of the branch office in Thisted. Local discussions on the distribution of cases between the Thisted branch office and the headquarters of the Court in Holstebro have had some difficult conditions. This may be due to the fact that at the time of the reform, for reasons of locality and consideration for staff, it was decided to bring together the staff of the Court at Thisted and the Court at Nykøbing Mors at the branch office in Thisted until the main venue at the Court in Holstebro was given new courtrooms in 2011. In doing so, the Thisted branch in the years following the reform dealt not only with cases from the then Thisted Circle, but also with cases from what was called Nykøbing Mother's Circle of Law before the reform. Well, the reform could leave the impression that the branch office in Thisted had been strengthened. When the Court in Holstebro got their new premises in 2011, it was intended to implement the planned distribution of staff and cases between Holstebro and the Thisted branch office. However, after discussions with the local mayors and the Court of Justice, the President of the Court of Justice chose not to carry out the anticipated redistributions of cases. Instead, a special breakdown was made of cases that have led to a larger number of cases being dealt with by the Thisted branch than provided for in the reform, but still a lower number than has been dealt with in the years 2007-2010. The Court of Justice has stated that this special distribution between Holstebro and Thisted has not been changed since 2011. Well, then we have to get back to the more general. As the rules are now, we have of course chosen to say that the competence to manage and distribute the work in the most appropriate way lies with the city court presidents. In order to ensure the most appropriate conduct of the proceedings, particular attention shall be paid to: In this context, it should be noted that, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the White Paper on growth, jobs and employment, it is necessary to take account of human resources and the necessary legal capacity. The layout and safety of the legal buildings and the possibility of holding telephone meetings and videoconferencing are also examples of factors which may affect the question of which cases should be dealt with in a main and branch office respectively. As a starting point, I would like to say that I believe that the distribution of cases between the main place of business and the branch office should be resolved locally, with emphasis on the above considerations. If the Folketing had to decide to place all one-judge cases at the branch offices, it would of course deprive the local level of the possibility of a flexible and appropriate organization of work, and with this there is a risk. This may compromise quality, processing times and efficient handling of tasks, and this is on the basis that the government cannot support the resolution. However, I would like to propose something else, because I think it is a relevant discussion whether we have the necessary proximity. That is why I would like to propose to Parliament today that we launch a study to clarify the distribution of hearings between main and branch offices since the entry into force of the reform in 2007. A number of years have passed, and I think it might be interesting to get that knowledge and overview, and thereby also to examine whether there should have been a change in the balance provided for in the preparatory work for the original reform. I will, of course, ensure that the Legal Affairs Committee is informed of that investigation. I know that this is not exactly what the motion for a resolution wants, but that is the way it is and now Mr Delors said it. Jan E. Jørgensen before that you could hear the outstretched hand, and I hope that you can do that again, that I think it is a relevant issue, and I would like to find out if something had happened. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111216	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111220	Thank you. I could hear and see the outstretched hand, and of course I would like to sign for it. One of the things that the Minister emphasizes is that, based on the branch office in Thisted, because it initially covered both Thisted and Morsø municipalities, relatively too many cases were settled. Now the purpose of the branch office in Thisted has actually always been to cover Thisted and Morsø Municipalities, i.e. the old jurisdiction in Thisted and the old jurisdiction in Nykøbing Mors, so it is not surprising that the branch office, when it covered the two municipalities, handled cases from both places. Then the Minister of Justice is quite right that it happened afterwards that several things were moved from the branch office to Holstebro, but then, when the court reform was passed, it was established during the committee work that the branch office should cover both Thisted and Morsø Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111321	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111323	This does not alter the fact that there will be some sort of distribution of matters between Holstebro and Thisted, and that will also be forward-looking. In other words, I do not want to go into a very specific local discussion of the distribution between the two, but, as I said before, I would like to clarify the distribution, also on a specific level, between the main points and the branch offices, because in this way I share the spirit of the motion for a resolution that proximity is important, and I believe that this applies in a very, very large number of areas. Conversely, we must always find a balance between proximity and accessibility on the one hand and quality and professionalism on the other. And that is the balance that I understand has originally been sought with the reform, which is why it is relevant to look at whether it has also succeeded in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111424	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111426	I look forward to that being made clear, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will be able to give us an indication at this point that it also means that one of the wordings of the entry into force of the reform, as the Minister described, that where there were many local witnesses, could, according to a specific assessment, be carried out locally. For that is very much what is experienced as not being the case. In other words, when there are cases arising in one of the municipalities where there is a branch office, not only in Thisted, but also in Tønder, Haderslev and Grenå, and therefore very local, where the defendants, witnesses and lawyers come from the branch area, it is only with great wonder that one can see that those cases are still settled at the main venue when it was precisely in the reform that it was precisely to be taken into account. So I hope that the Minister will confirm that this will be clarified very specifically in the study that the Minister will launch.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111535	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111537	Well, I think it would be relevant to include the witness issue as well. There may be good reasons for this, but it may also be that there aren't. But I think it would be perfectly natural. Because it is true that it was originally specifically mentioned that witness issues were also involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111554	There is another brief comment from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111558	I just had to understand the Minister correctly about this analysis, because I think the Minister mentioned something about analysing the extent to which decisions have been taken at local offices and to what extent they have been taken at headquarters. That's where I'm thinking, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left had just asked questions which clarified this. I just want to make sure that this is not just part of the analysis work, so that we do not do the same work twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111635	I am not quite sure that I understand the question, but I can repeat what I said, namely that I propose that we carry out a study which clarifies the distribution of hearings between main points on the one hand and branch offices on the other since the reform came into force. And, of course, it's to see if there's been a move in a direction other than what you actually expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111700	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111703	That is exactly what we have already confirmed. That's why I just wanted to know if that analysis contained other things, too, because otherwise it's something we can see here and now. But I would also like to ask the Minister something else. Since this is something that a number of conciliation parties are behind, would it not be an obvious idea also to call the conciliation circle to discuss what we could do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111729	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111731	I'll also be happy to meet with the conciliation board, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111736	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114111746	With proposal B 15, the proposers wish to require the government to ensure legislation by October 2015, so that court proceedings with only one judge are conducted at the local branch office in the jurisdictions established under the main heading, i.e.: in thisted, Grenaa, Tønder, and Haderslev. Let me start by making this clear so that it is no mistake that we Socialists are strongly in favour of proximity to the citizens. This was also the starting point for the 2006 judicial reform on which the proposers themselves were penwriters. In the judicial reform, it was crucial for the parties to the contract that a good balance was found between the need to deal with the cases closely with the citizen and the need for legal certainty, uniformity, professionalism and effective performance of the task. Against this background, the parties agreed on the exact types of cases to be dealt with by the branch offices. For us Socialists, it is of course crucial that the courts comply with the agreements behind the reform. We do not have an objective basis for believing that this should not happen, and we therefore appreciate the fact that the Minister for Justice has today clearly stated that an investigation must be carried out into the distribution of cases between main and biting places. Then we get a look at the case: Do the courts live up to the agreement on the division of cases or not. It is clear that action is required if the courts fail to comply with the agreements we have concluded with them, so let me repeat: it is essential for us Socialists that there is a principle of subsidiarity, including in our courts. Then may I not express my astonishment at the fact that, without any evidence, facts or other basis, the authors of the motion put forward a proposal in this Chamber today calling into question the reform which the authors themselves are behind, a reform which is based on a factual and enlightened basis. I hope not, and I repeat, I hope that what we are witnessing today is not a local media stunt. In any case, I find it deeply worrying that the proposal here is being made without any distinction to the facts. Let me repeat for the third time that we Socialists are very concerned about subsidiarity. We guarantee that legal proceedings can also be conducted locally. But what we are also concerned with is the legal certainty of the Danes, uniformity, professionalism and flexibility in the proceedings. Against this background, I must inform you that we Social Democrats support the Minister for Justice's investigation into the distribution of legal proceedings, but we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112026	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112032	Now, I think the Minister for Justice was a little bit complacent, but it can be said that the Minister for Justice's party colleague was by no means. I think it is rather strange to call a motion for a resolution a local medium-stunt, a motion for a resolution from which I do not know how many questions have been put in the Committee on Legal Affairs even when the reform was dealt with, and which subsequently looked at how the distribution of cases has been, both in one year and in the other year. Many of the points referred to by the Minister for Justice are well documented, but let us get the full picture. I think that is a rather aggressive approach to a problem that is really for a great many people. It is a problem which means that people are being violated by their sense of justice, people who think it is unreasonable that it is so difficult to have contact with the courts. And then the Social Democrat rapporteur speaks of it as a media stunt and says that everything is under control. I think that is quite striking. But I have to take that as an expression of the fact that the whole Social Democratic Parliamentary Group does not think this is a problem and that this is a media stunt. I think that's impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112143	Well, I'd be happy to send my speech to Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen, so that he can read how many times I repeat that for us Socialists it is absolutely crucial that there is a principle of subsidiarity. However, we have reached an agreement on the reform of the Court of Justice, which places particular emphasis on the principle of subsidiarity and where there are clear agreements on what exactly is the case for trials to be conducted in the Court of Justice in Thisted and which cases to be conducted at the main venue. Let us, however, find out whether these agreements are being complied with. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has no factual basis or evidence to say that the agreements are not being complied with. And that is what I find strange that we are tabling a resolution on when we have no professional basis on which to build our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112230	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112232	But it may well be that I should have simply raised the issues mentioned in the comments on the resolution so that the Socialist rapporteur could have found a way of reading them. I had assumed that you could look them up on the Danish Parliament's website and see the answers which show exactly what the distribution of cases is like. Because it is not exactly as the Socialist rapporteur says that it is completely clear which cases should be dealt with where. It is, as the Minister of Justice says, after a concrete assessment. And there are just too many examples of cases where the defendants and witnesses come from areas where there is a branch office and where the court then chooses not to settle the case locally. And it just stands for me to look at the principles of subsidiarity that the Socialist rapporteur also speaks so much about. And that is, in all modesty, why we are concerned that the proximity expected would be the result of the reform in the places where a branch office was chosen because of the large geographical distances, so that it will also be realized.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112338	Now I'm well aware that sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen is elected in Thisted and therefore has an interest in focusing on this area. I feel that when you bring a case in here in the Folketing, you have to have a factual basis on which to do it; then it must be based on more than just a gut feeling or a desire to get more activity in your own area. So I welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice is proposing to investigate the area and to examine whether the courts are complying with the agreements we have concluded with them before we start making proposals in this Chamber that change something that we all agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112418	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Hjermind Dencker as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112430	Today we are discussing something that is geographically located four different places in Jutland, namely in Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev. Then it's a little fun to hear a minister say it's a local case and to hear a socialist say it's a local media stunt. If everything west of Valby Takke is local, we've certainly had it confirmed. Back in 2007, when we adopted the judicial reform, we also helped to ensure that there were some local branch offices located in different places in Denmark, namely in Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev. These were all places where there was a long way to go, and I think I am speaking on behalf of several parties when I say that our intention, of course, was to ensure that people in the outermost regions also had good access to the judicial system. It is, of course, our responsibility as politicians to ensure that the things we adopt are actually followed up locally as well. When we then find out that in many cases the people who live near the branch offices that we have established in the sparsely populated areas have settled their affairs at the main points that they still have to travel to the larger cities, even if they live closer to the branch offices, then we have to recognise that there is room for improvement here. That is, of course, what we simply want with the proposal. If the state jobs that we place in the sparsely populated areas are not used sufficiently, then we all know what is going to happen to them, and in the Danish People's Party we have a great interest in maintaining the state jobs that we have in our rural areas. That is why we want to help ensure that the departments of Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev are actually used.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112633	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112637	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker what we should do for those who live near the main venue, because as this resolution is drafted, one would very much like to take account of the people who live near the branch offices, but I have the feeling that they are being dragged very far to the main points. Then it is suggested that all one-Judge cases should be moved down to the branch offices, including the one-Judge cases, which have a greater geographical connection with the main points. Well, then I just don't understand. What about the people who are involved in a one-judge trial but live far closer to the main venue?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112728	Thank you. It is the case with this proposal that when we require the government to put forward a proposal at the end of the parliamentary year which will ensure that these places are also used, we must, of course, do so in a way that makes the most sense. There I agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that it must of course also make sense, that if you live in Randers and all parties, defendants, witnesses, judge, lawyer and everything, is affiliated with Randers, then it is silly to go to Grenå. That is why it is incredibly important that we ensure that it makes sense too, but we can see with the proposal that, despite the fact that we have actually agreed that there should be these branch offices, you do exactly what Mrs Pernille Skipper says, just with the reverse sign, and that is really silly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112824	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112826	What I hear Mrs Hjermind Dencker says is frankly that the proposal makes no sense. For what it says is that all one-Judge cases can be settled at the branch office in the jurisdictions where a branch office is established under the main heading. This must also apply to all cases in which the persons involved in a single case have a greater geographical connection with the main point. Then it may well be that there is a problem, and Mrs Hjermind Dencker and Mr Hjermind Dencker feel so. Torsten Schack Pedersen very much that there is, and then you choose to solve it in a way that creates a problem for some other people. I think I'm having a hard time understanding this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114112913	We are in the situation, just as Mrs Pernille Skipper says, that there are some people who live in, let us say Thisted, and there have actually been cases where all the parties in thisted, despite it, have had to settle their case in Holstebro, despite having an office that is equally close to them, and that does not make any sense at all. That is why when there are so many cases locally, where it is the branch offices that are closest to them, they must of course also be put into service, because if they are not put into service, they will shut down. So this is simply an indication that these branch offices are going to be used, and when we then ask the government to put forward the proposal, we naturally expect it to be done so that it is healthy and sensible and makes sense to everyone, including those who live out there, so that they do not have to go in to settle their case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113008	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113018	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur basically believes that before a government is required to change its distribution, it is a good idea to have an overview of the existing distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113032	We are in complete agreement on this, and we already have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113038	Trine Bramsen? There weren't any more. Then we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and go to the radical rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113049	Thank you very much, sir. President. We Radicals cannot support this resolution. There are two reasons for this: both the content and the form of the motion for a resolution. Let's start with the contents. We Radicals support the 2007 judicial reform proposed by the VK government. It greatly reduced the number of smaller jurisdictions, and this was done in order to strengthen quality. However, four so-called branch offices were still kept - which is what we are discussing most of all here today - in the jurisdictions that became particularly large geographically, and we could support this radically, because we radically also support the principle of subsidiarity, which has been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. In these four offices, as the Minister explained, small cases must be dealt with; it is my impression that it is also being followed a long way along the way, just as the Left and Conservatives suggested at the time. The people are also well pleased with the service in court circles with branch offices, as shown by the Court of Justice's survey of users from last year. So I don't see the need for the big changes like that. Nor do I think it is a matter of fact that, with a motion for a resolution, we should change fundamentally the way in which our jurisdictions work. The reform was a very long time on the way, worked through so that it Basque, and it has taken a long time to implement it, we have had case humps etc. etc. I am therefore very careful to change the reform without further ado, but we have not studied things in depth. In other words, if we are nice, we say that the proposers have written a quarter of a page on this; it is a quarter of a page on which the proposal is based. I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper also very well pointed out the importance of what is contained in the proposal; it says, in this proposal, that we must ensure that one judge's case is settled at the branch office in the jurisdictions where branch offices are established under the main heading. Does this also mean that all the citizens of Holstebro should go to Thisted, and that all the citizens of Sønderborg should go to Haderslev or Tønder, and that all the citizens of Grenaa should go to Randers? Well, it just doesn't seem very well worked, because that's kind of what it says. I don't think it is if I'm going to be nice, there's the mindset behind it. I think it's something else you've had in mind. So I think we should be careful about this. However, I would like to take part in discussing in the Committee on Legal Affairs whether we can evaluate this and do what I hear the Minister for Justice says, namely that we are opening up some kind of analysis. I would very much like to be a part of that. However, we cannot support the fact that on a Friday morning we are changing something which took a great many years to complete and which is absolutely fundamental in our judicial system. That was the content. But we also reject the proposal because of its form. I'll be honest. I simply think that this is the expression of local populism, and I think that you have some pretty good proof of that. It is in fact that on the occasion of today's debate, Mr Ventre's rapporteur has been replaced. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who is randomly located in Thistedcircle, one of the places where there is a branch office; it should be said that more cases are actually being dealt with in Thisted today than the VK government was proposing with the reform, and there should not have been as many cases dealt with at the Thisted branch office as there will be today, and the Minister of Justice explained that just now. So, both in terms of form and substance, we Radicals cannot support this proposal, but we will be happy to discuss it in the Committee on Legal Affairs if the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights want to address it there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113432	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113438	I find it striking that since the court reform was adopted, where this has been a theme in several parts of the country, a work that has been going on is being demeaned to be such a local patriotic stunt. If the fact that we are some people who are concerned that the principles behind reforms that we are doing in here are also being followed and experienced as such in the country is local political stunt, then one must bear with me, for then I am guilty, because I believe that what we are adopting in here must also be what the citizens are experiencing and must be the consequence of it. If we are now on the agenda, and I believe that the radical rapporteur is that the branch offices are well described as to what geographical area they cover, we would also be able to see clearly that these are, of course, matters relating to the territory of the branch office and that this is where they are to be settled. The second thing about moving all cases from the entire district to the branch office makes no sense. I would also say that the radical rapporteur is having a rather difficult time deriving it from the text. But at least that misunderstanding has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113554	It is just striking that it is a Member of the Thisted circle who is going to present this proposal. I would like to extend my hand to the Left and say that I would like to contribute to examining the impact of the reform on the division of cases between the main office and the branch office. But it is rather striking that the two members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, who were here on the previous case, have now left, and then we are left with only one member from the Thisted circle. Excuse me if I think it's striking, but I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113624	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113626	I really think it is radical arrogance when it is worst. I mean, honestly, should you be cut off from dealing with matters that have a local interest? I actually thought that one of the purposes of the way in which we elect people to parliament is that we should represent the areas in which we are elected and help to raise some of the issues that are there. Then I am glad that there is support for it, because it is not a proposal that I am left with alone. It is a proposal arising from something that the Left worked on in the time of the VK government. So it is not something that has arisen overnight. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen will be able to find this in a play from the Left from back in 2011, I think. So I think this is an arrogant way of attacking an issue that is real, namely that there are citizens who see that the proximity of the judicial service that was expected with the judicial reform we made back in 2006 with effect from 2007 is not put into practice. Then we are some who are preoccupied with the fact that it is being realized, and it must then be demeaned as some stunt. Frankly, I think that is making fun of the people who are affected by this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113741	I would very much like to share in discussing closeness in the judicial service, and I would very much like to share in discussing the distribution of cases between the main office and the branch office throughout the country. This is certainly a relevant issue, etc. We can then do this in the Legal Affairs Committee, where we can sit down and discuss whether some steps should be taken to evaluate this point in the judicial reform. But it will not be here on a Friday in the Parliamentary Chamber that we change the division of cases between the main place of business and the branch office just like that. It won't if it's up to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113824	Brief remark from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113827	I am sorry to hear that the rapporteur is bothered to see some new faces in the Folketing with which he or she is not accustomed to working in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left has a local pre-war in Thisted, and I am also guilty, because I am the rural rapporteur, and I see it here from a rural point of view and from a desire to have state jobs in rural areas. The amazing thing is that we are different and have different interests in this. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really believes that we are determined that it should be a case of one judge wherever it is, because here we are going to require the government to come up with a legislative proposal? Does the rapporteur not believe that in the draft law which the government is being asked to make, there is, of course, room for it to be made in a way that makes sense to everyone who lives in the outermost regions near a branch office there and to those who live near a head office? Does the rapporteur not believe that this could be the outcome of tabling this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114113941	Yes, I think it could be done more precisely than is described in the motion for a resolution in such an incalculable way. I think so. To return to what the rapporteur started with: I think it is appropriate to have the discussion about state jobs and where they should be placed. We also had that discussion in connection with the judicial reform when it was presented by the VK government at the time. In fact, only two extra divisions and two extra jurisdictions were added to what was actually the presentation, and that was partly because the courts would be extended more than what was initially proposed by the VK government. So I kind of think it's relevant to do. But we just have to be very objective in this, because one of the pillars of our judicial system is, therefore, the authorities, how they deal with matters and where they are dealt with. We have to work very hard on this, and I just do not think we do that when we say: okay, we stand here on a Friday morning and think that we will change a reform which took many years to complete and which was before hundreds of pages of report. I don't think that's a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114048	Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114051	Well, that's not what this is about. It is about the fact that a reform was adopted at the time, in which we can now see that they are not being used in practice. Even though the witnesses, the defendants and all of them live in Grenå, they still go to Randers. We have adopted something and then we can see that it does not work locally. Is it not our duty as politicians just to open it up again and see if there is anything else we can do to sharpen this up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114123	We would like to help to see what the consequences of the judicial reform have been. We would very much like to be involved in this. I also heard an outstretched hand from the Minister of Justice in relation to that. But this is a major change. It is, in fact, quite a matter of moving all one - judge cases into the branch offices. This is a major, concrete change in the judicial reform, so I do not think the rapporteur is right in saying that this is just such a small adjustment. This is a concrete change in a reform which was very carefully worked out, and I am not standing here on a Friday morning and helping to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114201	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Karl H. Bornhøft.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114213	Thank you. I am speaking on behalf of the usual rapporteur of the SF, and I really want to return to such a more agreeable tone. In fact, in the SF, we can build a very great understanding of this proposal, and we can also say that we agree that for some citizens there has been a very long way to go when they have to settle their cases. We can then also take a positive view of this and say that, fortunately, most people do not need our legal system, but those who have experience in these years that the distance is increasing, not only to the courts, but to the authorities in general. If we then do not support the proposal, it is, of course, a matter of virtually all adopting the 2006 judicial reform. It sought to strike a balance between the need to deal closely with cases and the need to ensure that they were carried out effectively and planned and implemented locally. It was essential to ensure that all citizens, regardless of their place of residence, should be able to count on a uniform high level of professionalism when dealing with their case. So, respecting that we are part of an agreement, we stand by those agreements. However, I must be the first to deplore the many reforms of centralisation which we have witnessed in recent years and which, whatever the way we turn it, have been a huge challenge for our outermost regions. The municipal reform, the reform of the police and judicial system, the collection of tax centres, the pooling of educational institutions, things that may sound quite reasonable, but which overall and largely empty the outermost regions of functions. And it's just a relationship we have to admit. This is incredibly serious, and I think we will have to have a more look at it in the future when it comes to making legislation. In the present case, the Minister for Justice has promised to launch an investigation into the division of cases between main points and biting points; we are pleased about that, and we actually think that is sensible. And if there are any things that need to be corrected, the possibility is also therefore, and that is why we look forward to that part of the work being done. In conclusion, allow me to call for the thinking behind this proposal, i.e. on subsidiarity, to be remembered when the next thoughts of a necessary reform should take hold of the members of parliament. That could be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114513	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114522	Like previous speakers, the Enhedslisten is very much in agreement that proximity to justice is an important principle. Accessibility and, above all, the indirect legal certainty inherent in it are extremely important. Some citizens will find it easier to travel longer distances than others and, for example, to travel longer distances. Centralized all legal acts around Copenhagen would, of course, prevent certain sections of the population from being able to come forward and speak their case, whether it be criminal proceedings or civil proceedings. In Danish law we even operate in small cases with the so-called no-show judgments, and thus a lack of accessibility would mean for many people that they would be convicted even if they thought they were innocent. So yes, proximity and accessibility certainly have something fundamental to do with legal certainty. Having said that, and we are starting to read the actual proposal we are dealing with now, I believe that we are in a process of detailed regulation. Somehow we are discussing whether it is reasonable that a branch office can be shut down for a period of time because of an employee's maternity leave, and I simply do not think that we should sit and deal with that in here. And I have not yet heard an argument to dispute that the courts actually take account of the local treatment and actually place cases at the branch offices when it makes sense for the parties involved. It's like something the proposers sense. And I would like to start by saying that it is extremely generous of the Minister that, in the light of the feelings of some proposers, the Minister intends to launch a proper study. Then we can actually get some knowledge to talk about down here. In addition, I would say that the proposal has even been formulated in such a way that, in order to accommodate the people living near a branch office, all one-Judge cases will be taken and moved to the branch offices even if the parties are geographically closer to the main venue. And I know there that the proposers have been out to say that this is some terrible nonsense. Yes, I think it is, but that is how the proposal is formulated, and that is what the proposers are asking us to adopt. And no, we will not be voting for that. But I do not think that is what the proposers want. I think we have just come up with a proposal that has not been thought through. This means that, as far as I am concerned, we are left with one single reason for this motion for a resolution, and it is of course, as I have said, that the authors of the motion have the feeling that too many cases are being dealt with centrally. And it somehow has a connection with some constituencies, and then we don't have to say more than that. We very much agree in the Enhedslisten that the principle of subsidiarity is important; it has something to do with legal certainty. It is being examined now, and I think that is generous by the Minister, and I would like to support that. And if we adopted this resolution, we would create more problems than we can solve, so we could not agree that the point is to wait for the Minister's investigation and then we can always discuss it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114858	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114114918	It is, of course, fundamental that people should have a proper legal service, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is also co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution, which deals with the fact that in cases which are locally anchored, that is, where there is a branch office, namely in Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev, there is no reason why all those involved in the matter should go to the main venue. Instead, they can just stay in the neighborhood, and then the judge can go to them. It is a better service for citizens, and we think that is a good thing, and that is why we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114115010	Thank you. And then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114115023	Of course, we in the Conservatives can support the proposal because we are co-sponsors. It has always been the intention that legal proceedings that could be carried out at the local branch offices should be carried out locally. Developments have shown something else, and that is why, unfortunately, this motion for a resolution which requires the government to ensure that the courts in their planning of the hearings comply with the reform. We therefore agree with both the reform and this motion for a resolution, which seeks to ensure that trials involving only one judge are conducted in the local branches of Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev respectively. And I had to say that on behalf of Mr. Tom Behnke.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114115059	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114115115	Let me start by thanking you for your support for the proposal from the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance. It doesn't surprise when we're together on the proposal. I would also like to acknowledge that, after all, the Minister of Justice believes that there is an importance in the presence of closeness in the judicial service and that the objective of the judicial reform of 2006 with effect from 2007 is also being achieved and that this is also the reality afterwards. Of course, I had hoped that the government would have been a little more receptive to the proposal, but of course I am listening to the government, after all, taking part in the fact that it is being looked into. However, particularly in relation to what both the Socialist rapporteur and the radical rapporteur, and indeed the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, said, namely that this proposal was based on gut feeling, that it was so unprepared that there were not really any facts, that it was just taken out of thin air on a Friday morning, and that it was quite unreasonable to change a reform just like that suddenly, I must also say: this is a motion for a resolution which requires the government to table a bill because we are in favour of it being more appropriate for legislative proposals to be drawn up through ministries, rather than the opposition itself sitting and writing specific legislative proposals. That is why we are tabling it as a motion for a resolution. But I have to say that there are some of the accusations that are completely out of the blue. Let me take some of the answers I have received in relation to the distribution of cases. So, how has the distribution of cases been at the court in Randers and the branch office in Grenaa in 2013? That, then, is what I have to understand is a gut feeling, because I can at least understand that the rapporteurs concerned have not read the answer to Question 945 to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs of April this year. That answer says, and it must then be thought a gut feeling or not, that if you look at closed criminal proceedings in Randers, there have been 416 cases with judges; of these there have been two cases in Grenaa, while there have been 620 hearings in Randers. When it comes to cases without judges, there have been 2,94. There have been 793 hearings in Randers and 103 in Grenaa. And when it comes to confession cases, there have been 357 court hearings in Randers and 29 in Grenaa. It becomes even more funny or rather sad if you look at the number of completed civil cases with the main debate, because if we sum up small cases, marriage cases, parental responsibility cases and housing cases that have been conducted in Grenaa, then it is zero. There are two common cases which have been settled. It's just to spend some time countering that this is based on some gut feeling. This is based on the fact that, of course, we have been asking questions for several years to see what the distribution of cases is like, and that is what we have to say: there are some figures which are worrying and which in our view mean that there are cases which, in relation to the intention of the judicial reform and to some wordings which the Minister of Justice himself read out, where it would have been quite natural for them to have been settled locally. That has not yet been the case, and that is why we have made the proposal. For the Left, it is, of course, crucial that this reform complies with those intentions. The report, which was behind the reform of the Court of Justice, came just as I have pointed out today, with a recommendation that branch offices should be set up where there was a long way to the main point. And the result was that in Thisted, Grenaa, Tønder and Haderslev branch offices were established precisely because there would be disproportionate distance from the court. To ensure closeness in the court service, yes, branch offices were established in the four cities. During the committee's work in the parliamentary assembly 2005-06, it was also described which cases should at least be dealt with locally, but also which other types of cases, which, according to a concrete assessment, if there were many local witnesses, etc., could also be handled at the branch offices. As the debate has given me the opportunity to say several times, there are too many examples of cases that have their origins in one of the areas around the branch offices but have not been handled locally. And there are many of them. As far as I'm concerned, it's all about us doing things wisely. And I don't see the wisdom of us putting the defendants, witnesses and cops from an area to lie in the tail of each other to a main place when there's a branch office in the area. Those matters should be handled locally, and I cannot understand why we should see that the cases that arise in one of the municipalities covered by a branch office are still settled at the main venue, even if they are only people from one of the municipalities covered by the branch office. Of course, it has something to do with what conditions we offer citizens, what conditions we offer people who serve the courts. This, of course, also means something in relation to the lawyers, not because we have to pay special attention to them, but if there is too far from an area to the court, there may be a risk that some will at least be able to claim that the lawyers are moving closer to the court. One can then say that one thing is what it means for lawyers, but another is what it can mean for a local area, in other words for business to be able to draw on highly qualified legal advice in their work as well. So there are many good reasons why we are trying to make it a little smarter and spend each other's time a little better, and that is why we come with this motion for a resolution, which is aimed precisely at ensuring that, where matters arise, they should be settled, in other words locally. I would have liked to have had more support for this than is the case, but as I said, one must always choose to look at the world in a positive way, and that is why I would like to sign for it, as I have also done in the past, that the Minister of Justice will, after all, examine the distribution. I would venture to say that it has been asked repeatedly in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but if we can get it into a wider context and perhaps also through a study, we will get a deeper look at some of the figures, in relation to what elements are behind it, in relation to how local some of the cases are, then of course we will get a better picture of reality and hopefully come a step closer to the fact that the proximity that everyone is talking about is also being realised. So, after all, I would like to welcome this, but I have to say with regard to some of the reports that have been made, that it should be a purely local populist media stunt and all sorts of other things that have been said, that I think these are some very violent accusations. It is a matter which has been asked questions over many, many years and which has been the subject of various initiatives to oppose, and when parties in the Folketing then resort to tabling a motion for a resolution, it is because there has not been the necessary momentum in this area that has been desired. And that is why I think it has been somewhat arrogant rejections that have been, in that it is quite unreasonable for us to allow ourselves to interfere in the way in which the courts act. In other words, the courts must act in accordance with the legislation we adopt in here. That is our task, and then it is the courts that decide on the specific cases and how they should fall out, but it is the Folketing that decides where the branch offices should be. Let me therefore also make a single correction to what Mrs Pernille Skipper said: that she could not see that it was up to the Folketing to decide whether to close a branch office just because someone was on maternity leave. But now it is actually the case that when the court reform was adopted, it was explicitly cut out during committee proceedings that a branch office cannot be closed administratively. If a branch office is to be closed, it requires legislation from the Folketing, and if you think it is legitimate to shut down a government office while there is one on maternity leave, then you are helping to undermine what we have adopted in the Folketing. I have received a reply from the then Minister for Justice, who says: If branch offices are to be closed, it requires specific legislation from the Folketing. And then I thought that there had to be a common understanding in here that what we have adopted is also what needs to be applied in reality and that the courts in their day-to-day administration should not simply be able to override that. However, as I said, it is more fun to be optimistic, so I thank you for the commitment that we will move forward in the process, and I hope that can then be a step on the way to an objective described in the proposal, and then we will see how quickly it can happen and whether we can resolve it by means of a report in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But we have to look at that in relation to how the work is progressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120058	Mrs Pernille Skipper has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120106	Thank you. I'll start by making my point to Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen that there is strong support for local cases to be dealt with locally. Just no one knows about those numbers, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen reads, is an expression that it does not happen, and therefore there is great support for us to investigate it. I would like to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen about something. He insists that it would be a good idea to adopt the motion for a resolution as it stands here, which would impose legislation on the government, so that all one-Judge cases would be dealt with in a branch office when there is one, and that would also involve all one-Judge cases, which have a greater geographical connection with the main venue. That is how the motion for a resolution is formulated. And it is now the case that the government, if we adopt it, must do what is being said because it is the Folketing that decides. So I would like to ask: Is it unreasonable if the defendants, defendants and officers are to drive to a branch office, even though the case has its origin in a local area near the main place of business?
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120223	But when it is that I am concerned that there is proximity, that means, of course, that I believe that one should have one's case settled as close as possible to one, and that of course also means that a single judge's case, which has its origin in a local area near the main venue, must be settled at the main venue. And I think that is a slightly sought-after way for Mrs Pernille Skipper to read the motion for a resolution. But if there is a need for clarification in relation to what is quite obvious, that is to say that these are matters relating to the municipalities covered by the branch, then let us make it even more clear, so that there is no doubt about it. That, of course, is what has been charged. I would say that should be quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120308	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor, which means that the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141114120340	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 18 November 2014, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which appears on the Danish Parliament's website, where you can also see the weekly schedule.
