ParlaMint-DK_20141202130000	The meeting is open. At the request of the Minister for Industry and Growth, the third reading of L 17, which is listed as no. 7, from today's agenda. I should also like to inform you that the first reading of B 14, which is listed as paragraph 27, is also to be deleted from today's agenda, at the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution. There are the following reviews: Erling Bonnesen (V), René Christensen (DF) and Daniel Rugholm (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a food and agricultural package). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a better indoor climate in schools). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130057	I give the floor first to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130105	Thank you. The government has set the goal that our children and young people should be the best educated generation in Danish history. We're doing something to get to the target. We are the government that has invested most in education ever: 9 billion. kr. extra for education and SU since we stepped in. We are developing our education and our society, and we can do this because we are not in favour of zero growth. We are in the process of completing a new primary school with the aim that all children should be more skilled. We have agreed on a major reform which will improve vocational training so that pupils receive more and better education, and yesterday we presented a new plan for secondary schools for the future. We want to change the high schools so that they can live up to their task of preparing young people for higher education from dental technician to primary school teacher or engineer. Today, high schools work well in many ways. Many get a baccalaureate, teachers are highly qualified, but there are also challenges. It is difficult for young people to see through the variety of courses and combinations of subjects. Many get a baccalaureate which they cannot use to get directly into the education they want. That is why we want to introduce a more simple structure and fixed main entrances. In the general high school, for example, there will be: be twelve general directions within four entrances: science, social sciences, language and art. We have received the clear message from higher education that professional quality needs to be seen. Young people must have stronger qualifications, especially in mathematics. Therefore, we will make mathematics and science at intermediate level mandatory for more students. And then we'll spend the school year better. Especially the first and second g students do not have so many exams at the end of the year. Here, therefore, there must be less reading holidays and more teaching. In short, we simplify high school, we make it more manageable to choose direction, we give more lessons, and we raise the quality so that young people are better dressed to be able to read on. I welcome the largely positive reports that have come from both organisations and several parties here in the Danish Parliament, and now we have to start the negotiations. The Minister of Education will invite all parties to discussions here before Christmas. My aim is, of course, to achieve a broad consensus on preparing our upper secondary education for the future. It is important that education and training follow in time and develop, and we look forward to starting negotiations on this. After all, the Bureau of Parliament has decided to extend the Question Time by 1⁄2 hours once in the quarter, so that the North Atlantic members also have the opportunity to participate. I think that is a good decision, of course. Last week, the Faroe Islands concluded an agreement with the EU and Norway on mackerel fishing in 2015. It is positive that there has been agreement on quotas in the fisheries that are so important for the Faroe Islands. As you know, elections were held a few days ago in Greenland, and now we are awaiting the formation of a new local government. I look forward here today for the first time in Question Time to discuss and answer general questions within the whole Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130513	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we will just start with the new version of the Question Time, where we have the four representatives of the North Atlantic parties here in the Folketing, and we will start with that, and first it is Mr. Johan Lund Olsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130530	Thank you. First of all, thank you for this opportunity to put questions to the Prime Minister. I also think it is time for the North Atlantic Members to have this opportunity. After all, the Prime Minister is not only Prime Minister, but also Minister of the Kingdom Community, and it is natural that it is in the capacity of the Prime Minister and I now have to discuss some very important issues for Greenland. As the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Commonwealth will be aware, a new agreement, a new so-called service contract, has recently been concluded with the United States on the operation of Thulebasen. It is an agreement that means that both Greenland and Denmark lose money and jobs, and it may well be that it is a price that you are willing to pay in Denmark for your relationship with the United States, but for Greenland there are very, very large amounts. Greenland Contractors, which are partly self-employed, secures income tax, corporation tax, income tax; ensures that Greenlandic and Danish labour are given jobs; ensures the possibility of medical assistance from Thule Air Base to Qaanaaq and its settlements; ensures apprenticeship and internships for Greenlandic pupils; ensures various purchases in Greenland with, for example, KNI Pilersuisoq and KNI Pisiffik; ensures that Royal Arctic Line gets revenue; and finally ensures that Air Greenland also gets revenue, increased earnings. All of this is for the benefit of Greenland's economy and therefore also for the benefit of the citizens of Greenland and the sluggish national bank in Greenland. All in all, therefore, there is a minimum of 200 million. DKK, which Greenland is now in danger of losing. As the Minister of the Kingdom Community, the Prime Minister, knows, it is not exactly because the money is growing on the ice sheet in Greenland. As a Greenlandic member of the Danish Parliament it is then that I ask: What is the Prime Minister's position on the boring consequence that the Greenlandic treasury will lose at least 200 million. kr. Every year, even when you consider that our economy is already feeling really bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130740	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130742	I understand that this question is of concern to the honourable Member. I'd like to make it clear...
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130747	Wait a minute. There's something about a microphone.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130756	I would like to make it clear that it is my clear view that Thulebasen should continue to benefit the Greenlandic and Greenlandic communities as far as possible. That is also why the government has a clear expectation that the United States will comply with the joint agreements concluded with Thulebasen on this service arrangement. I now understand that there have already been objections from those companies which have submitted tenders for the Thulebasen contract but which did not win the tender and that there is an appeal procedure to be concluded in this respect. However, I would like to reiterate that Thulebasen must, as far as possible, benefit the Greenlandic and Greenlandic communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130852	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130853	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister, Minister of the Commonwealth. But this process started a long time ago, already last year, and then it ends with this. What has the Danish Government done to defend Danish-Greenland interests in the process? After all, we are talking about a kingdom community, and you are talking a lot about the cohesion of the Kingdom community. What has Denmark done to defend Danish-Greenland interests throughout this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130925	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202130927	The United States is in no doubt about the... [Sound Outfall]... and from Greenland, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stressed to the United States that if errors have been made in the supply, they must of course be corrected. So I do not think the Americans are in any doubt about our view that there may be errors in the supply. As the honourable Member is aware, the Foreign Minister is called in consultation on this matter in the Greenland Committee on Friday, 5 December, and there will be an opportunity to ask further questions about the more concrete part of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131014	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131016	Thank you for your answer. But the facts are still gone, that it's gone to an American shell company. It is an American shell company that has received the contract, and an American company is not obliged to pay personal taxes to Greenland, and an American company is not obliged to pay corporate taxes to Greenland society or to Denmark either. Nor is an American company obliged to use Greenlandic or Danish labour, so what happens is outrageous. The process started last year, and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are well aware that Greenland's economy is lagging behind. On top of that, we get this case, which makes the whole situation in Greenland worse. What does the Prime Minister intend to do in this case? Does the Prime Minister intend to go into the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131115	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131115-2	Well, as I started by saying, I believe that Thulebasen should continue to benefit the Greenlandic people and Greenlandic society as much as possible. And that is also why the Americans have no doubt that if mistakes have been made in this invitation to tender, it must of course be corrected. I also assume that for those companies that have not won this invitation to tender and which have now complained in the case, the appeal case will be dealt with correctly, and that is where we have to wait for the appeal to be concluded before we can proceed further. However, as I said earlier, the Foreign Minister has been called in consultation on Friday and there will be an opportunity to ask further questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131201	The question is closed. The next question is Mrs Doris Jakobsen from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131212	Thank you. As the Prime Minister knows, there have been elections in Greenland, which my party, Siumut, has won. Our President, Kim Kielsen, is now examining the possibilities for a new broad cooperation in the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut. The main problem in Greenland is the lack of economic development and the increasing pressure on the economy. At the same time, the United States has just abandoned Greenland Contractors as a service company at Thulebasen. Greenland owns a third of that company together with the Danish company MT Højgaard. It is a decision that costs Greenland millions of kroner. In Greenland we have seen it as a clear condition for Thulebasen's use of our country that we at least got something out of servicing the base. But it is Denmark that is leading the foreign policy and defence policy that we must follow, and Denmark that is responsible for the negotiations on Thulebasen. Because of this situation and the economic situation in Greenland, my question to the Prime Minister is what the government has of plans to ensure support for possible Danish investments in the Greenlandic economy. Does the government now see it as an opportunity to invest directly from the state in business development and developing activities in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131353	It's the PM. May I have a little more quiet in the Chamber, please? The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131359	I think it will be and have long been a discussion about whether the Danish state should engage in... [Sound emission]... It has been the policy of the last two national leaders that raw materials development in Greenland and also other commitments should take place on commercial terms. And, of course, the attitude that has been quite clear from the last two national leaders has been respected by the government. I must also say that I agree with that position. This does not mean, of course, that Danish companies cannot play a role in the development of the economy in Greenland. I really hope they can. This is also why the government, together with the now outgoing government, and hopefully also with the new government, has set up a joint working group to look at and make suggestions on how to contribute positively to the development of the economy in Greenland on commercial terms. Because, as we have also discussed many times, I do not think that Greenland or Denmark, for that matter, has any support for state participation in the development of various infrastructure projects or mining of raw materials, or whatever it may be. It has been the case in this respect that there are pension companies that have expressed an interest in co-financing projects in Greenland, and that is very good. We hope they will, and we expect them to do so on commercial terms. But state money into raw materials development or similar commitments is not government policy, and I have in fact also understood, after thorough discussions with the last two governors, that it has not been their wish either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131613	Mrs. Doris Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131615	Thank you. I remember the Prime Minister in his last speech saying that the Growth Fund must also be able to be used by Greenlandic companies. I think it's a good idea too. I also remember that one of the ministries made a recommendation in relation to the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Investment Bank, and we also hope that Denmark will see it as an advantage if Greenland's industries and the Greenland economy continue to move in a very different direction in the future. In this context, I would like to know whether the government really believes that the matter of the service contract at Thulebasen has finished the debate ^ although the Prime Minister mentioned that we will be debating it with the Foreign Minister. The Danish company, which is going to lose a lot of money on this case, has raised a complaint in the United States that the contract has been given to a company that here in Denmark can be described as a shell company. According to my information, this is contrary to the agreements on Thulebasen's use of Danish and Greenlandic companies in all areas where possible. So, the question is: How does Denmark intend to support the Danish company in their fight for justice in the United States? Or should the Commonwealth just expect the government to hold its hands in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131746	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131747	No, the Commonwealth should not expect this, and that is also why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made it clear to the United States that this is something we attach importance to both Danish and Greenlandic, and it is to the United States that, if mistakes have been made in that tender, those errors must of course be corrected. As I understand it, three of the companies that have not won the tender have complained. There is now an appeal procedure under way on this issue, and the appeal process underlines that the matter has not been closed. And now, as I said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come in consultation on Friday and will be able to elaborate on it. But the bottom line is that the Americans have no doubt that if mistakes have been made in that tender, they should, of course, be corrected. And my bottom line in this matter is that Thulebasen must, as far as possible, benefit the Greenlandic and Greenlandic communities. I do not think there is any discussion that this is our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131900	Mrs. Doris Jakobsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202131903	As Greenland is in economic crisis, it is very important for us that Thulebasen should also benefit the Greenlandic national fund. I therefore hope that we will continue to fight in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, Denmark is also sending many soldiers and weapons ^ million expenses ^ in support of the US war in the Middle East, which is why I also believe that there should be economic benefits for us at Thulebasen. But that's not a question. I look forward to the next meeting with the Secretary of State on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132001	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132003	I totally agree. I understand perfectly well that this is an additional challenge in a Greenlandic economy where you feel a lot of pressure. So I understand that this question is coming up. That is also why I look forward to having the opportunity to put questions to the Foreign Minister and to discuss this matter with the Foreign Minister in the conciliation convened on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132024	The question is closed. The next question is to the Prime Minister by Mr. Edmund Joensen from the Samband Party in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132034	First of all, thank you to the Presidency for the opportunity to attend Question Time, and also to the Prime Minister for answering questions from us North Atlantic Members. I want to focus, in principle, on the Kingdom community. When we in this House have the community for debate, we often hear two things: firstly, that it is up to the Faroe Islands and Greenland itself to develop the kingdom community, and that development must take place through takeovers of matters. We most recently heard this from the Prime Minister during the debate on the Kingdom Community in April, and I believe that takeovers are a form of liquidation. Secondly, we also hear that the Kingdom community is giving the Kingdom a great deal of international impact on the foreign minister mentioned in the Deadline on Sunday, and I am quite, very much in agreement, but there is a lack of an important angle. Ever since the introduction of the Home Rule Act in 1948, the basic idea has been to maintain a similar level of welfare for nationals of the three countries, but this is rarely heard in this Chamber, and this is an unfortunate development, which I know many convicts are very concerned about. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: does the Prime Minister agree with me that the development of the Commonwealth is a joint responsibility and that, in addition to this, we also have a welfare project to be developed, and that we do not have an international impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132254	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132257	I fully agree that the Kingdom Community is a joint project, and when it comes to the many things I have talked about in relation to the Kingdom Community for some years now, I think that I and the government have always made it very clear that we are very concerned about the Kingdom Community, we will go a very long way in defending our Kingdom Community, and we have very much respect for the position and the power of action of the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the Kingdom Community. That is also why we respect the fact that if you choose to take some areas home, then the decision is sovereign in the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively, just as when an area has gone home it is the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's own area with its own responsibility, and I think that is actually at the heart of the respect we should have for our kingdom community. But I am quite convinced that the Kingdom Community, both in relation to the rest of the world, but also in relation to the practicalities of how we live with each other, is a win-win-win cooperation. There is no one who loses on what we all win by being part of the Kingdom community, and of course also by respecting the framework that we ourselves have helped to set for the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132417	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132419	Thank you. I can see that the Prime Minister has good intentions, but in this case this is a common area, which is therefore not a taken over area, namely hospital, social services and defence, which is a common matter. I have noted that Denmark, with which we and Greenland are together under the Constitution and in the Commonwealth of Denmark, and where Denmark is also part of the EU, so no borders have, when there is a debate in this House on EU issues, for what one wants to develop and harmonise and collaborate on, while when it comes to the Kingdom of Denmark, it is suddenly up to the Faroe Islands and Greenland to develop it. We need to look at the Kingdom community in a different way. It may well be that we have to take over responsibilities which the Faroe Islands and Greenland themselves manage, but it cannot continue in the Kingdom community without development, and that is the development that is lacking. So I would like to ask at the end: why does the government have this difference in commitment and willingness to develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132558	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132600	I must say that I do not quite recognize the picture that we are not concerned with developments in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. One of the things that has also just been mentioned is that we also want to expand the Growth Fund, so that we have the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It emphasizes that we are a great community of kingdoms and that we are concerned about continuing to be so. In relation to the specific question, when an area is not taken over, we have to ensure an appropriate standard in that area, both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, corresponding to the standard we have in Denmark, and that is actually a good way of thinking about this: Are the standards the same in those areas that have not been taken over? If an area is then taken over by the Faroe Islands or by Greenland, then it will be the standards you set yourself in these areas. However, as long as an area is not taken over, it is our duty to ensure that standards are largely the same throughout the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132711	Sir. Edmund Joensen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132714	Shortly at the end. I mentioned in my first speech that it is a fundamental idea of the home governance system to maintain roughly the same level of welfare throughout the Kingdom community. We share funding for the Faroese health service, social services and pensions and other things, but instead of talking about taking over these matters, we can do something else. We can develop the welfare project together, and my question is: Why not ensure that the Faroe Islands health and social services come up to the level of the Danish, which is not today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132812	The Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132815	After all, the areas for which you take over are your own responsibility, and for those areas which are still responsible for this part of the realm, we have a responsibility to ensure that the standards are of a sufficiently high level, and since you also have a very own economy in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, it is also reasonable that there can be different standards. I want there to be high standards, and I want there to be affordability to have high standards for our welfare societies both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, but there is also a responsibility for the money to fit and for you to have your own economy where the money has to fit. So I am sure that we could have a longer discussion on this issue, but actually it is quite simple: you are responsible for your own economy, and in areas that are not taken over, we are responsible for a certain standard that would like to be roughly the same throughout the realm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132911	The question is closed. The next question is from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202132922	Thank you, sir. President. I hope that it is not symptomatic that the Prime Minister's microphone does not work when she has to answer questions from the North Atlantic so far that has been a good answer, I should say. Now it is the case that Denmark is formally, according to the Constitution, a single state with one government, one parliament and one foreign policy, but in fact Denmark is quite a different size. Of current foreign policy examples, mention can be made of the great fishing dispute, where Denmark stood on the one hand and the Faroe Islands on the other. Another example is the dispute between the West and Russia, where Denmark has one position and one policy, and the Faroe Islands have a different position and another policy. It takes a great deal of political understanding to make things work when there are such great differences between the formal and the real • but it does work. It has gone because the Faroe Islands have been given the necessary room to make their own decisions without Denmark interfering. The government understands that the Faroe Islands must have their own voice and praise for it. When it comes to the war against IS, it is different, because here the Danish authorities have made the kingdom, the whole kingdom including the Faroe Islands warring. The Faroe Islands have been informed, but not asked, and have not been given the opportunity to express their opinion in relation to the decisions. It is of course Denmark that bears the defence costs and poses with the soldiers, but when a kingdom is at war, then the whole kingdom is at war. I would therefore like to know whether the Prime Minister sees any problem in Denmark making the Faroe Islands a formally warring country without the Faroe Islands being given the opportunity to speak in this regard. I am not thinking of a right of veto, but of an opportunity to be heard. The question will be asked a little further to what the Foreign Minister said in Deadline the day before yesterday, when he said that what gives Denmark the weight that Denmark has, foreign policy and defence policy, is the Faroe Islands, but primarily Greenland. That makes it even more reasonable for these countries to be heard and heard when such decisions are made, that they should go to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133131	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133132	First of all, I would like to thank the questioner for the praise he has given me for my answers, which I am not so accustomed to, that is to say to be commended for my answers. So thank you for that, I'll take it all with me. In relation to some of the very heavy questions raised by the questioner, I agree very much that because Denmark is part of the EU and the Faroe Islands it is not, it sometimes presents challenges that need to be solved. The biggest challenge we have had in recent years has, of course, been the sanctions against the Faroe Islands. It was very difficult to deal with, but it is my feeling that because we discussed this very much both here in the Folketing and elsewhere, we actually managed to find solutions that we could live with in a very difficult situation. I have also thanked the Faroese for being able to do so because there was a good consideration and a good dialogue on this whole issue. So I would like to start by thanking you again. In relation to this very fundamental question of how the Faroe Islands and Greenland are involved, when Denmark decides to enter an armed conflict, we have fortunately formalities and legislation to stick to in this respect. And it is the case that Denmark's participation in an armed conflict must be dealt with here in the Folketing. At the same time, it is also the case that, in connection with the adoption by the Danish Parliament of the most recent motion for a resolution on a further Danish military contribution in relation to the action against ISIL, the government did indeed give the national leaders of the Faroe Islands and Greenland a briefing on this issue. It was then up to the governors to convene and inform the relevant committees in the Latting and Landstinget. After all, the government attaches fundamental importance to the fact that we have an ongoing exchange of information on these issues, especially when it is of particular interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I recognise that this is one of the situations where it can probably be difficult and that you sit on the Faroe Islands and think: what happened right there? But on the other hand, that's how the rules are. Denmark adopts this kind of thing in the Folketing, but of course it has to ensure the ongoing dialogue on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133353	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133355	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister spoke about formalities and what the rules are like, but it is also the case that the former Layerman of the Faroe Islands Jóannes Eidesgaard and Denmark's former Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller signed a declaration on the Faroe Islands' involvement and involvement in foreign and security policy in 2005. The declaration states, among other things, that in the management of foreign and security policy issues of importance to the Faroe Islands it is natural that the Faroe Islands should be involved and have an influence. These are genuine participation and participation aimed at equality on all issues where Denmark and the Faroe Islands are jointly involved. In other words, when a security policy matter has an impact on the Faroe Islands, the Faroe Islands must have participation. The government itself has signed up to that. And when the Faroe Islands are made warring, it is of course and of course a matter that matters to the Faroe Islands. Can the Prime Minister not see any disagreement between what Per Stig Møller signed in 2005 on behalf of the government and the fact that the Faroe Islands are not given the opportunity to express their opinion when they are made warring?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133506	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133508	When there are situations where Denmark is involved in armed conflicts, it is the case that it should be dealt with in the Folketing. I think it is important to be very clear and clear what the legal framework is for such participation. These are serious matters, and that is why we must, of course, stick to the law. But at the same time it is also the case that, before we take such decisions, we are discussing it; there is a debate in the Chamber and there is also the possibility of a debate here in the Chamber. And, of course, it is also the case that we give Greenland's home government and the Faroe Islands' local government an orientation. I think this is a proper way of doing it and it stays within the legal framework. The rapporteur must forgive me for not having the 2005 agreement with me here today and being able to comment directly on it, but I do believe that the way we deal with this issue also gives the Faroese and Greenlandic members of the Folketing the opportunity to discuss these issues, since there is usually always a debate in the Chamber and also in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133615	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133617	Thank you. Member of the Danish Parliament, i.e. I am elected by 20 per cent. of the population, and I do not represent the Faroe Islands as a whole, the Faroe Islands have their own authority, and I am not a Faroese authority. I would say that I supported Denmark in the war against IS, and I also have great respect for the efforts that Denmark is making internationally, both diplomatically, humanitarianly and militarily, but the reason why it is so important for the United States to include Denmark in the conflicts that have been in the Middle East in recent years is not only Denmark's purely military assistance. The crucial thing for the United States is to be able to say that Denmark is also part of the alliance of countries for which the United States is the leader. The political signal weighs very heavily, and that signal becomes much stronger when the whole great kingdom community is placed in the weight bowl of the United States than if only Denmark. And since it is now the Faroe Islands, and Greenland in particular, which gives the weight that Denmark has, it is probably unreasonable that these countries should not even be heard when the Danish government spans them for the US cart. So there is a 2005 declaration that says that the Faroe Islands should I understand that the Prime Minister does not respect the declaration made in 2005?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133726	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133728	First of all, I'm gonna have to stand up to this... about the government being tense to the United States cart. I think that is quite wrong. We are facing a terrible terrorist organization, ISIL. A large coalition of countries has decided to fight ISIL, also with the participation of countries in the region, and it is natural that Denmark, which feels threatened by this organisation, is helping to combat ISIL, and I do not see that as being tense to the Americans' wagon. I'm talking about what the government is doing, and the government is behaving properly in these discussions. The cases are dealt with in the Folketing, they must be dealt with in the Counsel and, of course, they must also be discussed in the Folketing and during the committee procedure, and in this case there is ample opportunity for the four North Atlantic members to give their opinion. In addition to that, it is then informed afterwards, and that is the correct way to handle it. There is freedom to discuss whether to do so in other ways forward, whether to change the legal framework for this. This can always be discussed, but at least we follow the legal framework that exists when Denmark is involved in an armed conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133853	The question is closed. Then we go to the South Danish part of Question Time. It's first, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202133905	Thank you. Yeah, it's the South, but I'd like to start out in the big world anyway. I know that the President is not in favour of flattery, and what I am saying now is probably not attributed to my time, so I shall be very brief. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President and all of us on the fact that it is now finally clear that the President will be President of the next UN General Assembly. This is first and foremost good for the President and the icing on the cake in a fine political career, but it also falls back on Denmark, and that is, of course, an additional reason why I mention it here. It is very, very distinguished that we can have a Dane elected to that position. Then I spent 30 seconds on it, so I'm already behind. And so am I, because I had intended, in the light of what the Prime Minister said, to sign for the government's proposal for a high school reform. We look forward to discussing this with the government. We'd like to put the bar a little higher. That is because, when you are in favour of spending freezes, there is an additional reason to enter into a discussion on this, because it is about using the tax dollars you have, wisest and rightest, among other things. By making sure that young people make the right youth training choices from the outset, leading to employment rather than unemployment, and by ensuring that we have set up a secondary school in which there are not too many supplementary courses for later, both to the detriment of the individual young people, but also to the detriment of the collective economy. So it is precisely when we are in favour of a halt to expenditure that we are being encouraged to enter into such reforms. What I really want to ask you is that I have only 20 seconds to discuss again these days whether working is worthwhile. I refer, of course, to the television programmes that have been running lately, namely the day the strangers disappeared. I am skipping all the middle bills because the broadcasts speak for themselves, and I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister thinks that the way in which we have organised our welfare society is the way it should be in terms of whether it is worthwhile to work or to be supported by the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134126	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134128	I am, of course, very pleased that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen spent some time congratulating the President of the Danish Parliament. I had just looked forward to having a discussion on the high school issue, but since there was no question in this matter, I will refrain from going into it, although I really would like to discuss the high school issue, also because it is something that concerns a great many people. The thing that I can just take out of it, like Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that when you have zero growth, there is not so much money for welfare. In concrete terms, that is what finally emerged in what the Left has now said, because that means that every penny should be turned even more. It is actually very good that here in the Danish Parliament's Question Time there is finally some statement from the Left. Actually, we're missing that. But zero growth means that there is not so much to do good with. That is what we have been told today. In relation to the question of whether it is worthwhile to work, it is, of course, the government's basic attitude and I believe that it is the very majority of the Danes' basic attitude that there must of course be an economic advantage in taking a job. After all, that was also what the government was targeting when we made our tax reform back in 2012. After all, we increased the employment allowance and introduced a special job allowance for single parents. We are still in the process of phasing in this tax reform, but the increase in the employment allowance has so far increased the benefit of working with up to DKr 3 000. a year for ordinary Danes. When I think it is interesting to start there, it is of course because our tax reform, which fortunately the Left is part of, although they entered into the negotiations with a little more, actually increases the benefit of taking a job, whereas the tax reform of the Left, which they did together with the Danish People's Party, when they were in government, does not have the same effect at all, because there are tax cuts for the very best paid. So it is one of the major differences that has been in Danish politics, and I think that is very important to note. It is, of course, also important to note that what the Left brought with them when they came to the tax negotiations in 2012 was not actually anything with employment allowances and such. It was something like top tax relief, tax relief at the very top. It had nothing to do with the fact that it should pay better for the lowest-paid to take on paid work. So this is something the government has been very concerned about and continues to be very concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134407	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134410	Thank you. Then we start the storywriting again, and it's always exciting. I like the Prime Minister referring to the tax reform as ours, but that is still the case, so it cannot have been more wrong than the government having protected it and actually wanted to go ahead with new top tax concessions. In other words, if it is not just to be the usual Tuesday muggery for me and also the Prime Minister, I think, have read the review of Question Time in Politiken here today. I think we should look ahead and sign up completely for a tax agreement that increases the employment allowance, but which will continue to leave thousands and thousands of Danes in a situation where the benefit of taking a low wage is very clear. It's still so gone for a couple of couples with a couple of kids that you have to go find a job, one of them, for 35,000 kroner. a month to get a prize. Now I heard the Minister of Finance inspired by the broadcasts that I am starting to say, and now I quote that he found it immoral to refuse a low-wage job on contractual terms and instead choose to be supported by the public. And that's why I'm asking what the government wants to do in the future. So, does the Prime Minister agree with his Finance Minister that it is immoral, and if the Prime Minister agrees, what will the Prime Minister do about it? I am not asking what the Prime Minister has done and what we have done together, but whether more needs to be done. One might also ask in another way: when the Prime Minister says that we have targeted something, does the Prime Minister feel that the Prime Minister is in the goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134555	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134557	I don't think it's uninteresting when mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen asks me if I am concerned that working is worthwhile and I am refreshing Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's memory in relation to the tax agreement that we made together and which, moreover, is not fully phased in yet. For that is the tax agreement that really makes a difference in relation to whether it is worthwhile to work. I just have to remind you, and that is not insignificant either, I would like to say to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen • that when the VK and Dansk Folkeparti made their tax reform, they gave very large tax concessions to the very richest. It was created in 2009, and I have no problem understanding why the Left wanted to implement that tax reform. What is constantly the mystery is why the Danish People's Party wanted to be there at the time. And I certainly have no problem explaining why the Socialists were not there at the time. Again: When we negotiated the tax agreement in 2012, it was not the case that the Left came up with some plan to get the employment allowance on the field. No, certainly not what you were preoccupied with there were again reliefs in the top tax. And when I say this, it is because it is interesting to remember that the Left's interest in being able to work and to solve it through the tax system is quite new, because it did not apply in 2009 and it did not apply in 2012. And I must say that in 2014 it will not apply either, because we have still not received a concrete answer as to what the Left really intends to do in relation to the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134735	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134738	I think it is a pity that we cannot take our starting point at the stage of Danish history in which we are now, and then discuss policy in the future. We can easily discuss history, and then I do not know whether the Prime Minister might be able to tell us what was the position of the Social Democratic Party when our government invented the employment allowance at the time; for now the Prime Minister makes it sound as if it is something we are seriously opposed to. So, I know it was our government that introduced the employment allowance at the time, and it might be interesting to hear whether the Prime Minister can recall what was the original position of the Social Democratic Party and, for that matter, the SF in relation to the employment allowance. But otherwise I am asking for a debate on the future. It's fine that the Prime Minister is preoccupied with these things, that is, it's quite, quite excellent. It is fine that we have made a tax agreement that will phase in an increased employment allowance, but even when it is in place, we will have a situation where, in my best memory, more than a quarter of a million Danes are not associated with any significant gain to take a job. And what are we going to do about it? That's kind of what I'm asking. I asked precisely whether the Prime Minister agrees with his Finance Minister when the Minister of Finance calls it immoral to refuse a low-wage job under contractual conditions. And if it is immoral, should we solve this problem of moral sermons, or should we start to increase profits so that people without high educational qualifications can gain a profit by taking a job similar to the minimum wage of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134916	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202134918	There should be no doubt for a second that if you are on unemployment benefit or on cash benefits for that matter or on labour market benefits, you should be available for the labour market, also for a job that may not be paid as well, also for a job that is outside your professional area, and also for a job that may be a little further away than you had imagined. You have to be available for the labour market, because our entire labour market system and the benefit system are only linked if you have both rights and, above all, recognise that you also have duties. So I think there can be a lot of words put into this, saying that you should not be able to say no to a job if there is a job available. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. Where the next question arises is as to how much you really need and when it pays to work. When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen keeps saying that's what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen returns to this all the time, and I understand that, because it is an important issue • that there are now a quarter of a million Danes who only have a small financial gain from working, I can only say: It depends again on what you mean by a small financial gain. And it may be that we see things a little differently, because the immediate economic advantage of being in work is already quite nice for many of these people. As I know the figures, it's over half of the people who get more than 2,000 kroner, whether it's 250,000 or 300,000. out of taking a job. Then I know that it has been established in this Chamber that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen does not think that 2,000 DKK. is a lot. This corresponds to the price of a pair of shoes, one could hear too many questions hours ago. But 2,000 kroner. in a family where wages are not so high, is actually a nice advance in the family's economy. The next question that arises, of course, is: what does Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen do about it? Where's sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen's employment changes and tax reform, which can change that number, so there are many more than half of these 250,000 that get more than 2,000 kroner. out of taking a job? I would like to see that plan, we need it from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135150	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for the second round. Perhaps I could call for the speaking time to be just about respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135156	I'm gonna try not to go around mirroring myself in the PM. I will refrain from it in relation to clothing choices and shoe budgets and other things because it would not suit me; that is what I was thinking of but on this point of speaking time I will reflect myself in the Prime Minister. I can see in politics today that we have now reached the point where we need to take stock of this question institution, and I have also seen in politics today that the President is a little too sorry that we never really succeed in getting rid of it, so it is just a poor contribution with the risk of being misunderstood. But to the point: unfortunately, it is far more than 250 000. I think that is the figure one can hope to get down to when what we have jointly adopted, if a few years have passed, is phased in. It hasn't been phased in yet, and that's why I really care what we have to do. I am glad that the Prime Minister recognizes that we in the Left have given some thought to what we should do. The Prime Minister would like to hear a little more in detail about them. And yes, it is true that we have a proposal that a ceiling should be set on how much can be paid in public support as a whole. We have a proposal for a modern cash aid ceiling because the government tore down the old. We have a proposal to invest the money as carefully as possible in reducing the tax on small labour income. And it's to give people a greater financial incentive to take these jobs. It's not a question of what 2,000 kroner. is worth to me, or whatever 2,000 kroner. is worth to the Prime Minister, or any other number. It's a question of, as was also revealed in this broadcast, very concrete examples of Danes getting off on a job they could get because overall they consider that it is not of economic interest to them. And what are we going to do about it? There are, in principle, two things you can do. One, then, is to increase the financial gain. We have proposed this in the Left. The second would be what the government's own Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior mentioned in Jyllands-Posten last week, where he advocated that benefit recipients should be penalised to a greater extent than today. Perhaps this is more in line with what the Prime Minister is talking about, that is to say, right and duty, and that you have to strike down if people say no. That is what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is proposing. He believes that the benefit recipients should be penalised to a greater extent than they do today, where they can say no to ordinary work on contractual terms and still maintain the right to benefit. Then I would like to ask, since the Prime Minister obviously does not think there is a need for more targeted tax cuts at the bottom than those we have already agreed, whether the Prime Minister believes instead that what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has said about more sanctions in the benefit system is the government's bid on how to solve the problem that has been uncovered in the broadcasts we have all seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135501	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135503	It's hard to give a brief answer when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen asks so far. First of all, I would like to say on the matter of clothes: I do not know whether it would dress Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but you have to remember that you have to pay it yourself, so you have to bring it too. Having said that, I cannot help but go a little deeper into the figures which Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen comes along because it is so clear that the Left does not want to present a plan for how this is to happen. And until the Left has put forward a plan, the rest of us are in the situation that we can just guess what it is that the Left wants. We are all concerned that work must be worthwhile, but if, for example, we are concerned. must halve the group of people who get less than 2,000 kroner. I would like to ask you how much the tax at the bottom really needs to be changed. Could you get an answer from the Left to that question? You can't do that, so that's why we've figured it out ourselves. If you're going to halve that group, it's gonna cost 20 billion. kr. Left 20 billion. kr. To do it for? And if the Left needs 20 billion. kr. How, then, can the Left afford everything else you want, namely to invest in health and education and then to give tax cuts to all sorts of others that have been promised tax cuts? These are the sort of issues that arise when the Left starts to claim that they have a plan to solve this challenge. This is a challenge, and the government has tried to solve it by means of our tax policy. We have come a great deal far, much further than the situation we took over after the previous government. In addition to that, you will be asked at your disposal. Of course, I fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that if the rules of availability do not work as they should, then we are looking at it. This is among other things. Therefore, we have a daily allowance commission which will naturally also look at whether the sanction regime we have within our daily allowance rules is sufficient and, of course, whether the rules are complied with. That goes without saying. But let us make it clear that we have rules of availability in Denmark. They're actually pretty tough. What we will have to examine in the near future is, of course, whether they are being kept to the letter. And we are not afraid to enter into a discussion on the rules of availability. If something can be changed there, something improves there, then we are open to that discussion. But dear Left, Denmark's largest party, when does the Left come up with a plan for all these airy things you want to do? You have 20 billion. kr. to reduce the employment allowance for? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135757	Now we have two lines left a every 1 minute for each. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135802	Thank you so much. The way the Prime Minister asks is interesting. It uncovers everything: well, the Left has a plan; the Prime Minister is sorry that she hasn't seen it yet. It is in any case in contrast to a government that has no plan. Because what you have to understand is that the government has done what needs to be done. It is, moreover, an echo of what was said when I last stood here, when I asked about the government's policy and was told that it has been implemented: we have implemented it. I guess politics is about some forward-looking discussions about what we want with this country. I am trying, moreover, at a quiet and quiet pace, where I commend the one and the other for getting started this morning to point out some social problems Denmark has and ask: Can the Prime Minister recognise them and should we do something more about them? I still find it quite unclear whether the Prime Minister thinks that what we have done together has been done; our tax reform; the one we have together made rows or whether more needs to be done. I think more needs to be done, and I have also indicated a direction. The unemployment benefit system is also unclear to me, although I think it is very interesting that the Prime Minister is now opening the door to the idea of setting up the benefit commission, that is to say, to tighten up and to impose more sanctions in relation to the benefit recipients. Maybe it could be interesting just to elaborate on this aspect. For so far, that is not what has been clearest to me, namely that it was the whole purpose of pushing that question across the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135930	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202135932	The reason for setting up the benefit commission was, of course, that the previous government had a reform of unemployment benefits based on incorrect figures. It was said that 2,000-4,000 would fall out of the benefit system. It turned out to be more than 40,000. That is the starting point for us to say: this time we are not going to reform unemployment benefits without thinking very carefully, and that means that we have set up a commission to prepare for this. That's the right way to do it. I have also seen that the Left itself has also pointed out that it may be a good idea to have a benefit commission and to wait to develop it further until the results of the benefit commission have been obtained. Once we have set up the Daily Benefit Commission, it is to look at the whole unemployment benefit issue, including benefits and sanctions. That's pretty much what it says. And when we do so, it is because we will not once again be in a situation where the Left and the Conservative and the Danish People's Party come up with a new daily allowance system, which is so brutally phased in in a way, so it hits hard compared to a lot of Danish families. That's why we set up the benefit commission. Now, Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen is in a rose mood today, one could also praise that this time we are doing it differently. The benefit system we now have does not work when so many people fall out of it. We're gonna change that. I really hope that we can do this together once the benefit commission has completed its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140110	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140113	Thank you. So, the discussion was based on what we do when we can see earthy, realistic examples of Danes who do not want to take jobs that exist and who instead become obsessed with foreign labour, because the gain is apparently not enough. There is no real answer: we have done what can be done, we must not do any more. It's immoral, says the finance minister. The PM doesn't really relate to that. Can sanctions be tightened up? The answers blow a little in the wind. I can say that in the Left we have the ambition that the benefit of taking a low-wage job should be increased. The gain by moving from passive to active must be greater. This must be combined with a combination of reintroducing the ceiling on cash aid imposed by the government from the land to tear down in a modern form, and with targeted tax cuts for people with small labour incomes. What the Prime Minister wants in relation to this, I don't really get an answer to. It's all shot to the corner with the Daily Money Commission. After all, this raises a certain amount of déjà vu, because it seems that the unemployment benefit system needs to be changed again. This happens on the basis that the radical leader has been out with statements that it needs to be tightened up. That is why a final question could be: when the Prime Minister finally chose to change the unemployment benefit system and not be able to keep that promise precisely with reference to the Radicals, what will make the Danes believe that this time the Prime Minister can fulfil his promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140301	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140304	I have to come back to this question of what the Left actually has of concrete bids. The government's bid is quite simple: we have carried out a tax reform which makes it more attractive to be in the labour market, especially for those with ordinary wage incomes. That's the government's answer. It has not even been fully phased in yet, but it will actually be a good gain for the individual when it is fully phased in. What really is the Left's answer? It is said that the Left will introduce a new ceiling on cash benefits. We can't know what that is. It's called a modern cash aid ceiling. Then it won't be more fluffy than that. A modern cash aid ceiling. What's a cash-aid ceiling like that? If we look at the old one, we see that it's less than 100 million. DKK 80 million. kr. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: It's a long way. It's a long way from 80 million. kr. up to 20 billion. DKK as it will cost to halve the number of people with less than DKK 2,000. by taking a paid job. I would say to the Left that the answers hover in the wind. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, That sounds really nice and fine, but there is a lack of concrete answers from the Left, and it hardly makes sense to continue discussing it with the Left when no proper answers are put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140428	The question is closed. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as the leader of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140438	Thank you for that, President. That's right, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that there is a lot in here looking for other work. There have been some, even before we were told that the President of the Danish Parliament is now changing his place of work, but there must also be congratulations on that. What I would like to use the Question Time to discuss with the Prime Minister today, I do not think comes as a surprise to the Prime Minister. This, of course, relates to the European Union. After all, there are negotiations at the moment between the parties in the Danish Parliament who want the EU to decide more, and those who are sceptical of that line do not help to determine Denmark's EU policy according to the Prime Minister. That is the case, I would have almost said with a well-known Mrs Margrethe Vestager quote. We must take note of that. What we can then use, among other things. The question-time is, after all, to put some questions to the Prime Minister about the European Union. After all, just last Friday, the British Prime Minister made an excellent speech about Britain's role in the European Union. We, who think it is a good idea for Britain to join the European Union, listen carefully when the British Prime Minister speaks. He touched on some of the things that we have also discussed in a Danish context, i.e. among others. As a migrant worker, such as East Europeans in another EU country, we must have the right to travel, just to take the example of having children's cheques sent back to our home country to children who are in the original country of origin, etc. He wants to have some restrictions on the rights of migrant workers, so that there are more rules that reflect what the British people seem to want. That is why I find it interesting to hear the Prime Minister's reply to one clear point: will Denmark be a country that is Britain helping to achieve this new regime, which Prime Minister David Cameron is talking about, and which is the provisional demand of the British in order to keep the country within the EU? So, is Denmark a friend and helping Britain to achieve the demands that David Cameron is talking about, or is Denmark a opponent of Britain?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140654	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140657	In fact, I see it rather that, with the discussions that Cameron has so clearly raised, and I cannot go into every detail of his proposal and assess whether I agree or disagree, the British will become a player for Denmark in what Denmark would like to do in the European Union. And what Denmark wants to do in the EU is that we have free movement. I think so many Danes are in favour of it, but the EU should not develop into one great welfare state. In other words, the welfare benefits that we have in each Member State must be able to maintain, even with the national characteristics that are now present. I think most Danes would like that. We must have our own welfare state, we must decide for ourselves about it, we must not be one great welfare state, but, of course, we must also have freedom of movement. This is a discussion which we have also raised in different EU contexts and which, of course, I have also discussed with the British Prime Minister. I think that now that the British have brought this up, it will be even easier for Denmark to raise this discussion in the European Union as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140811	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140813	What is exciting here is that there is no doubt that what the British are demanding is a change in the Treaty. Those are the demands that, among other things, are: It is a question of putting free movement out of the way in certain situations. There is talk of the fact that when the differences between some countries in the European Union are too great, we should not have the same rights to walk as we do today and that the tax advantages that we have as a migrant worker should be reduced. There must be a four-year waiting period for some of the rights that apply today. You can also say an income principle that we have known in Denmark. But it is a waiting period which is about the fact that the social benefits which you have the right to be sent home should not be entitled to any longer. There is no immediate indication that the whole of the European Union can agree that it is a great idea to restrict freedom of movement in this way. What then is the crucial question is that if there is no agreement in the EU circle, will Denmark help Britain to have a special arrangement, where those rules apply to Britain? Will Denmark be in favour of re-writing the EU Treaty so that it also offers the possibility for the British to have a special scheme if that is what is needed to meet the demands that the British Prime Minister has listed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140925	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202140927	One of the things I have already noted since Friday is that the Commission has already been out saying that it is willing to discuss these matters quietly. After all, we have always proposed this, namely that Denmark should not withdraw from the European Union, as the Danish People's Party is proposing, because it will de facto be. If there are large parts of EU cooperation that you do not participate in, you will be further away from the European Union than Norway is. This is true, for example. the reservation of welfare proposed by the Danish People's Party. This will mean that Denmark is further away from the EU than Norway is. I don't think so many Danes want that. So we've always gone constructively into this discussion. I do not think there are any of them to whom I or the Foreign Minister or other ministers have spoken over the recent period, who have doubts that this is a discussion which concerns us in Denmark. As I hear the British discussion, it will help us get a backlash to the discussion. When we are going to discuss the regulation, the legislation that regulates this issue, we will have a better opportunity to have the regulation, the legislation changed in a way, so that it also fits into the Danish positions, which is that we want freedom of movement, but we should not be a great welfare state where you cannot decide for yourself about your welfare state at home in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141042	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141044	Now we came very far around all sorts of things other than what I asked, and that is, of course, the Prime Minister's right. It didn't make me smarter about the question I asked. The question I asked was, of course, whether Denmark, if it cannot agree to meet the demands of the British Prime Minister in the European Union, will be prepared for the British to have a special scheme to meet the British Prime Minister's listed demands. It is quite clear that it requires a Treaty change to be able to restrict the free movement of workers in the way the British Prime Minister has said, in other words, to restrict the rights that today come with. The British themselves are not hiding that. The question is this: will the Danish Government be an active player with the British in relation to having a special scheme, if necessary, which will also keep the British in the EU, rather than helping to give them a cold shoulder so that they can be taken out? What matters here is not whether agreement can be reached on anything in the European Union as a whole. It'll be fine if you can. What is crucial here is that if the European Union cannot agree on the changes that mean that we do not have to pay children's cheques to children living in a country other than Denmark or Great Britain, etc., is it prepared to say yes to a special scheme for Great Britain which meets the British wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141202	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141204	As I see it, sir. So Kristian Thulesen Dahl is a little too far ahead, because what the British have proposed is a discussion with the Commission. I shall not be able to say whether or not a special arrangement or Treaty amendment is later requested or what it may be. Mr. Apparently Kristian Thulesen Dahl is more about than I am. I cannot go into the detailed wishes of the British on this issue. What I have to say is that there has been a speech which, among other things, has been made. related to welfare benefits. I think that is a good backlash to the discussion that we in Denmark have been raising for a long time. I have also noted that the Commission has taken positive note of this and has said that there will now be a constructive dialogue. It is also quite clear that we in Denmark have a great interest in the British continuing to be a member of the European Union, and that is why I think it is simply a post office too early to go into several hypotheses about what will happen if the British come with one thing or another, or if the British are to have a special scheme, and assess what we will do in that regard. We have our positions in Denmark, we have our interests to take care of, and I believe that what the British have now done can well be a backlash for us to be able to look after our interests in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141309	The question is closed. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141317	Thank you. After all, the Prime Minister has stated on several occasions that she does not like the payment of benefits last but not least, in her reply to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, where the Prime Minister stressed that there are, after all, over 40,000 people who have now fallen out of the benefit system. In fact, I believe that, according to the last count, we have rounded the 50 000 people who have lost their daily allowance, and that is why I think there are 5 000 good reasons to act. Then we did not succeed in the financial law negotiations, where we would have liked to have seen us extend the daily allowance period or shorten the recovery period. But I take the Prime Minister's statement at face value, namely that the Social Democrats would certainly like to do something, but cannot before an election. So let's look at the situation after a choice. Here says the radical president and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Morten Østergaard, to Politiken on Saturday, that he does not believe that there is a need for relaxation of the benefit reform. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Socialists will be working for an improvement in the unemployment benefit reform, on which the Prime Minister of the Congress said, and I quote: "Our opposition to the unemployment benefit reform is heartfelt. Then I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will work for an improvement in the unemployment benefit reform in relation to the work to be done following a parliamentary election, or whether the Prime Minister shares the Deputy Prime Minister's view that there should be no relaxation in this area at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141444	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141450	After all, when we have set up a benefit commission, it is to learn more about how we can create a better benefit system. Otherwise, there was no reason to set up a benefit commission. Then we could just see that we have the world's best unemployment benefit system, so we just keep doing that forever. We do not think so, and that is why we have set up a benefit commission. It works within a very specific framework, a very good framework, and I really look forward to having a systematic overview of our benefit system. Where can this be improved, and how can it solve the challenges that lie in it? One of the challenges is that there does not always seem to be a match between the unemployed and the unemployed. We'll discuss that. Another challenge is that there are too many people who fall out of the benefit system. There are a number of challenges. That is why I am extremely pleased that we have asked a commission to look at this, because the last thing the unemployed need is a new unemployment benefit reform which comes as a thief at night, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did last time where the consequences had not been carefully thought through. The last thing Denmark needs is an unemployment benefit reform which we cannot agree on in broad terms here in the Folketing. So my hope is that the parties towards the elections, which will only be a very long time away, will not work their way up into some corners, but rather look to the Daily Money Commission and then, after the elections, find a system of allowances which can be here for many years and which we can adopt in the Folketing with a broad majority. That is what will create security for the Danes, not least for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141629	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141631	I very much agree with the Prime Minister that we need to solve the unemployment benefit problem, which is why I also understand the call that we should not paint our way into a corner in terms of making solutions, and that is why I cannot understand why the Deputy Prime Minister refused in advance to make reductions in an unemployment benefit reform, as I have heard the Social Democrats' President and the Prime Minister have said on several occasions. I think that might be painting itself up in a corner. But we have to know what will happen after an election. I understand very well that you want a commission to work through it, that you want to have a big discussion in the Folketing and that we need to approach each other, but it cannot be a secret to the electorate what the Socialists want after an election. Will the Prime Minister again enter into intergovernmental cooperation with the Radical Left without any improvement in the rules for the benefit area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141719	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141721	After an election, there will be a daily allowance commission. It's gonna look at all these aspects. I'm very comfortable with that benefit commission. We have the social partners, including, of course, the LO, sitting at that table, and my wish is that the parties in the election campaign, which comes at some point in time, do not paint themselves up in such sharp corners that, after the election, it will be difficult to find a new benefit system. What Denmark needs is for us to put a stop to the discussion about the benefits, most of all for the sake of the unemployed, who do not know whether they have been bought or sold, who do not know what is going to happen to the benefit system. Therefore, my clear call to everyone is: don't go for elections on too bombastic attitudes to the benefit system; let's look at the daily allowance commission and then try to create a broad majority in the Folketing on new unemployment benefits rules. So that is our position on the matter. We do not think that the benefit system we have now is particularly good. This needs to be changed, and that is also why we have set up a committee which will be able to examine the benefit system in a qualified manner and make good proposals as to what it might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141837	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141838	[Sound emission]... the Prime Minister's attitude that it is a welfare reform made by the bourgeois with the Radical voices that are not good. We fully agree that we need to change the benefit reform and, as such, also make improvements to the benefit area. So the Radical Left would not, and that is why I have to ask whether, after an election, one can imagine a little like Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen intends to keep the Danish People's Party out of influence in the EU area if he, God better, should win after an election, and none of us hope so, at least in my party, that the Social Democratic Party and the Prime Minister will use the same way by a majority in the Folketing, possibly bypassing the Radical Left, in order to get improvements in the field of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141922	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202141924	We will listen very carefully to the Daily Money Commission. When it is reduced, it is because we do not believe that the benefit system we have now is as it should be. We go to the elections together and hope to be able to continue the government, and if the voters want to, that is what is going to happen. But it is important for all of us that, before we come up with very bombastic views on how this should be, let us listen to the commission we have set up ourselves, let us get it as a good starting point for negotiating what comes from the Daily Money Commission here in the Folketing by a broad majority, so that the Danes and those who become unemployed have security in their situation. What they need now is security. Because this has been discussed for so many years now, there is a lack of basic security in the Danish labour market. I think it makes a huge difference in many families that you do not have basic security. We can help to create this if we ensure the conditions for us to be able, after the next elections, to create a new unemployment benefit scheme in Denmark, which many parties support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142027	The question is closed. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142035	Thank you. Now, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen unfortunately left me sorry, because I would have told him that I deeply disagree with him; I am sure he would be very handsome in Bordeaux velour, not least here in December. I was actually gonna ask you about primary school, but I'm gonna start by following up on sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's question about this TV show... the day the strangers disappeared. Everyone will agree that if you are unemployed, you have to accept employment if you do so on reasonable terms. And it is also the case today that there are very harsh sanctions if you do not do so. But it was actually something else that hit me when I saw that TV show. I was surprised that there were employers who imported labour from other countries to sectors such as transport and cleaning, where we know there is high unemployment in Denmark. And I would like to hear the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister not agree with me that employers also have a responsibility? For example: most of the companies involved in the programme did not contact the local trade union. I have to say that it is companies that benefit from being in Denmark, where we pay taxes to the health system, the education system, etc. Yet they do not take responsibility, for example. to contact the local union and say: Is there any local available labour that I could get? Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that it is not only the unemployed who have duties but that companies also have duties? I think: where is the right-wing outrage at the employers who wear out employees in record time and leave the bill when the people are to be picked up to the Danish taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142235	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142238	It is interesting to think that the whole parliament has been watching television on Monday evening. It has given rise to various emotions, and it has with me too. I thought it was awkward. I found it embarrassing to see that there were unemployed people who were not particularly willing to take a job. But I also found it awkward to hear that there were employers who had not contacted the local job centre just to see if there was any labour, like I also, of course, think that these companies without proper pay and working conditions are deeply distressing. I also find it awkward if two times TV on Monday evening should make us in the Folketing again start talking negatively about the unemployed. In fact, I am very sorry because I think it is hard to be unemployed, and the last thing you need is for the Folketing to multiply up against the unemployed and start talking really bad about them and say that they almost do not want to work. My impression is that the vast majority of people in Denmark want to get a job. This also applies to the low-paid. And that's why it's also disconcerting when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen keeps saying it must pay to work. This is important, but there is no general indication that the low-paid do not want to take up a job. That is why I agree with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen when she feels that companies have not approached the local job centre, because I think that should be done. But I also think you have a right to hire someone from other countries if it is not possible to find someone who will do the work you have. And in this way, there is enough reason to look all the way around these cases and to discuss whether something can be discussed in relation to what is available, whether there is a sufficient incentive to take a job, also outside professional boundaries and in relation to a job that is far away and may not give so much in the payroll, but of course also whether the employers are good enough to approach the local unemployment fund or the local job centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142449	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142452	I assume that the Prime Minister knows that there are very severe sanctions if the unemployed do not accept jobs offered to them. However, in addition to that, I am very pleased that the announcement by the Prime Minister was clear: a 'no' to more hetz against the people who have been affected by unemployment, and, of course, and unfortunately there are employers in Denmark who do not take on the duties they should assume, who do not lift their responsibilities. I'd like to ask about the primary school... that's what I planned when I walked up here. It is now about a year and a half since a majority in the Folketing of the then governing parties, the Left and the Danish People's Party adopted a reform of primary school. In this context, the working time agreements that were concluded with school teachers were terminated, and I think most people remember how school teachers experienced a rather violent fall in the pace and that they actually went in and made the wishes of the employer-side law. It was also subsequently clear that this bulldozing had been planned for a long time in the government stop. Unfortunately, we see some of the consequences of this approach. We see, among other things, that there are places where sick leave for teachers has increased by up to 40 per cent, and we also hear school leaders say that they believe that the increased absence of sick people is a direct result of this very violent approach to teachers, where they were driven over their heads and changed their working conditions significantly. I think it goes without saying that if you want reform to work, you have to do it with courage I think this is going hard on our children, and we also see there are teachers who are simply fleeing school now. My question is simple: can the Prime Minister see today that the way in which teachers were treated simply strained to ensure that the reform could be successful? And if you can see it, what will you do to correct those mistakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142648	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142651	In many ways, I do not agree with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's analysis, even when it comes to the course which is probably a few years away. I think it was necessary after the children had not been taught for a very long time. On the Danish labour market, there is both the possibility of strike and lockout, and this led to our children not having been taught for a very long time, and it was therefore necessary to intervene and bring about a legislative action in relation to the situation in which our children had been brought. You also have to remember what this is all about. It's basically about our kids getting as good as they can. All children are both children who come from home, where you have a lot of education, diplomas and everything, and children who come from home, where there is not much knowledge of education • must become as skilled as they can. And it requires that they have a little more time with their teachers, it requires that they become more skilled at Danish and mathematics, and that was in its essence the reason why we wanted to reform the primary school. In addition to that, I believe that the picture drawn by the primary school as it operates today is a bit too gloomy. It is my impression that there are also many, many schools where it works well and where both managers, parents, teachers and pupils are getting really excited about the new forms of education and the new ways of learning.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142821	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142823	It is indeed about the children, and I think that the growing absence of sick people and the fact that there are teachers who simply throw the towel in the ring and say that they will not be teachers anymore are hurting our children. And Enhedslisten is not alone in thinking that it was not very wise to treat teachers in this way. Most recently, the United Nations Labour Organisation, the ILO, which is an organisation supported by Denmark and to which the government normally listens, has stated quite clearly that the government intervention in the teacher's conflict was contrary to the ILO rules which Denmark has agreed to and, moreover, they clearly criticise the fact that in the course of the process and in the drafting of the legislative action the government was too close to the employer side, i.e. KL, and did not include teachers. The organisation has also said that it will follow the forthcoming collective bargaining in the public sector very closely in order to avoid repetition. Since the increase in sickness absence apparently does not affect the Prime Minister, does it affect or give food for thought when the UN organization in this area says: It was not very clever; it was actually not according to the book? When I ask, it is also because we know that new public collective bargaining is ahead. My question is: does the government have new plans to change the working conditions of other groups of public employees over their heads in the negotiations that are waiting for the other side of New Year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142948	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202142952	The government prefers to keep itself at a distance from collective bargaining. This applies regardless of whether it is public or private collective bargaining. But it is the case in Denmark that when a negotiation breaks down, a mediation can be initiated, and if it does not work then there can be strike or lockout. In the specific situation we faced, our children had not been in school for many weeks. There is a time when we have to assess whether or not it is justified, and a massive majority in the Danish Parliament considered that it should be stopped, because it was no longer justifiable that our children should not be taught. So that's the decision and that's what I'm asked about... I'm the target of. I'd like to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143039	Thank you. Then that's the next question. Sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143048	Thank you. It was interesting to follow the discussion about what we can do to put people in a situation where they can get more out of going to work. It has been a bit too bad to follow the discussion, in the sense that it has become very unconcerned and highest to some loose desires. This is the case, whether it be on the part of the government or on the part of the Left. We, the Liberal Alliance, would very much like to be specific. But I just have to arrest this about it was the discussion that was just before that everyone who is unemployed obviously wants a job. According to the government's own figures and Danmarks Statistik's figures, and these are the figures that the government itself has brought into the field, it is therefore the case that 33 per cent. of those who are on cash benefits are not available, are not looking for a job, are not available if they are offered a job within 14 days, or do not want to work. Those are the government's own figures. The same applies to 18%. of people on unemployment benefits in low-wage jobs. That says something about us doing something about this. And since neither the government nor the Left want to be specific, I would like to be very specific on the part of the Liberal Alliance. We want everyone at work to have a relief of DKK 20,000. net per year. This would bring down the figure significantly from the 330,000 people who today have no significant economic incentive to go to work, and that is the figure that will come down to 250,000 in 2023. With the policy of the Liberal Alliance, that figure would be reduced to less than 100,000. Will the government be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143222	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143225	No, I do not think the government will, because it has to be financed, and the Liberal Alliance wants to finance it by having some form of negative growth in the public sector; that is to say, we have to provide less services to citizens, less health care, less education and less of all the other things that we really want to provide to citizens in our welfare societies. Now I understand that Mr. Anders Samuelsen feels a little bullied here recently; he thinks we like demonizing the Liberal Alliance. I don't see that we do. I am afraid that the system set up by the Liberal Alliance would also suit the Liberal Alliance to say it very, very clearly to the Danes • will mean less of the ordinary service that very many Danes are happy about, less solidarity, less redistribution, less welfare. It would suit the Liberal Alliance to say this quite clearly. Then perhaps one would be less demonized because one told the truth to the voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143329	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143332	I think it would suit the Prime Minister not to sound like she is chairman of the DSU, but actually take her seriously that she is prime minister. It would not mean less service to follow the government's own Commission report, that is, the Commission report which has pointed out how we can make improvements in productivity. Why is it less service to stop using public funds today on cycling Santa Claus, light in benches, mistrust of public employees, bureaucracy that has taken precedence, where we end up in a situation, and we are today, when social workers say that they spend up to 80%. of their time at all things other than helping those they want to help? Why is it worse service to do away with it and use the excess funds we get out of it to ease the tax on work for everyone, so that low-paid people actually get recognition, a net improvement that can be felt when they go to work? Why do we have to continue with this DSU-like discussion that if you remove as much as a penny from the public sector, it will lead to less public service? That's not the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143440	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143443	I have no problem with productivity improvements in the public sector. After all, in our plans, in the government itself, we are proposing to increase productivity in the public sector. The problem then is that if you remove those funds from the public sector, you cannot provide better services, and we do not want to do so. We want to keep that money in the public sector in order to provide better services in other areas. But what Mr. Anders Samuelsen owes the answer to the simple question: How will you finance this? I understand that we need less growth, that is to say less public service, and I think most of the people have understood that too. But what about the cash aid? Should cash benefits be significantly reduced? Yesterday, I saw that mr. Joachim B. Olsen was outraged by the level of cash assistance. Should it be put down and how much should it be put down? Is it the level of unemployment benefit that is too high and should it be reduced? After all, all these questions owe the Liberal Alliance answers. I have the feeling that it is actually felt that both the two services should be significantly reduced, and then it would suit the Liberal Alliance to have that said. Then you could ask the other opposition, for example. The Danish People's Party • what they think of it. But it would suit the debate if the Liberal Alliance, the Left and others were to come forward with their policy and put it out clearly so that the voters could assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143558	Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143601	Thank you. Listen to me. In fact, it is not the case that we are trying to hide our policy. We are in contrast, for example, to the situation in the United Kingdom. The government is completely open about what kind of plans we have. Yes, we would like to lower the cash benefits slightly, but not even down to a Swedish level. That's what we're talking about. But what has been discussed here today is what we can do to give the people who are going to work a little more recognition of the work they are doing. There, at least in his second reply, the Prime Minister says that the Productivity Commission has been out to say that efficiency improvements can be made without reducing the service in the public sector, and that is the money we would like to spend. The Prime Minister would like to use the efficiency improvement and the money that is then made available for something else, namely to increase the public sector and provide even more service in the style of more cycling Santa Claus or whatever, more light in the benches, or all sorts of other strange things and things. If we have reached that point, and we are today, where the public sector is apparently able to afford to spend money on this kind of thing, then perhaps we can also find a little money that gives all Danes in work 20,000 DKK. net per year extra in the payroll to go to work. Why do we have to turn it around to smash the public sector or degrade the service or anything else, as the Prime Minister keeps saying, when her own commission points out that we can do this without compromising the service?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143731	Thank you. The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143734	Because the money can only be used once. Once the money has been spent on a massive tax relief, it cannot be used elsewhere and therefore a reasonable balance must be struck. What puzzles me in this discussion is that if you are so concerned that there has to be a financial gain in working, where was the Liberal Alliance when we made our tax reform? There, of course, the Liberal Alliance would not be involved, probably because there were not enough tax cuts for the best-paid. However, it is actually the 2012 tax reform that really ensures that we in Denmark will move in relation to this that it pays off to work. Because, as I also said earlier, the increase in the employment allowance has so far increased the gain by working with up to DKr 3 000. for ordinary Danes, and by 2020 that prize will be increased by DKK 1,200, so we are up to DKK 4,200. I cannot think of a government other than us, of course, which over recent years has done more to ensure that it pays off to work. And if the Liberal Alliance is so preoccupied with it, then it must be wondered today that they were not involved in the tax reform in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143905	Thank you. That is the last question, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143907	Thank you. At the last Question Time, I asked questions about the cash assistance system and the changes that the government would like to introduce by means of the Finance Act. There were not so many answers, which is why I would like to ask again, and I would really like some clear answers this time too. For the last time, I got some answers that it was administrative trouble and that the government was not so concerned about it, but in the Conservative People's Party we are actually very concerned that it should pay off to work and that it should be more attractive to be in work than to be on public support. In the vicinity of 50,000 young people are on cash benefits today, and that is too many, because it is valuable months and years that are being wasted for the young person who could instead be in education. And then I just have to ask the Prime Minister something: will there be more or fewer young people on cash aid with the Finance Act for next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143956	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202143959	Hopefully there will be fewer people on cash benefits, because we are all concerned that fewer people are going on cash benefits. In particular, because our partners, with whom we made the Financial Law Agreement, attached great importance to the fact that the benefits of some limited groups of recipients of cash and education benefits are concerned, for example. young people with children had come too far, when we had put them down to the same level as the SU, we have set it a little higher in the context of this financial agreement, and the government has accepted that as part of the overall financial agreement. Actually, we live fine with that. It is some people who live under very special circumstances that make us live fine, that they now get a little extra compared to the low performance they had come down on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144044	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144047	It is the case that more people are going to waste both months and years with the agreement they have made for next year. It is just as the Minister for Justice, the former Minister for Employment, made clear last year after the cash aid reform, and then it has to be said that then there is an obvious difference between what the former Minister for Employment thought and what the Prime Minister thinks today. When next year's Finance Act makes it clear that it should not be worthwhile to be in education or work for young people, and when there is a clear discrepancy here, there is a certain disagreement about the direction. And then I just have to ask something: is it the Prime Minister with the financial agreement that has just been concluded, or is it the former Minister of Employment who is drawing the shop here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144132	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144135	This is a rather strange question, because we have together made a cash aid reform which we are fully committed to and which is really, really good. It is a cash aid reform which does not send the signal to young people on cash benefits that it would be economical for them to start training. That is why, from the outset, we have made a very good cash aid reform. Then it is the case that when we negotiated the Finance Act, the parties we made the Finance Act wanted some other rules to apply to a limited group of cash benefits recipients. And we live well with that, also because there has been a discussion about whether married couples' incentive to take a job was sufficient, and that is why we live well with these rules. But basically, we have a very good cash aid reform which ensures that it is not the case that young people get more out of being on cash benefits than taking an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144232	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144236	So there is no clear answer to whether it is the Minister for Justice, the former Minister for Employment, who draws the store with the words she said, namely that young people without training should not be in the cash aid system at all. This is in stark contrast to the line the government has today. I just have to say, it's a course that a lot of people out in the real world don't understand. The government has removed the ceiling on cash benefits, which means that couples on cash benefits have to earn more than DKK 35,000 in order to pay for taking a job. The Finance Act removes the craftsman's allowance. There are no initiatives in the Finance Act to actually secure more jobs, and this is a disaster course for the Danish families, which is very, very concerned about whether they will lose their jobs in the future. And then I just want to ask you something. After all, the government is based on an old working party, so how can the Prime Minister be satisfied with the financial law that sends more people on public support and that has thus been cleared of initiatives that create jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144339	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144342	After all, the financial law we have created must be added to our general economic policy, and our general economic policy operates with two growth packages, of which several of the parties in the Folketing have been a part and which will increase the supply of labour in the years to come, just as our economic policy in general has ensured that more people have entered employment and that unemployment has fallen. What we took over from the previous government was an economy that was not really in control, budgets were not respected, unemployment was too high. However, we have now ensured that, since the turn of 2013, 38,000 more people have entered employment and that we have lower unemployment than we have had for many years, except for overheating. So, in this way, Denmark is now in a better economic situation than we did three years ago, and this is, of course, due to the fact that we have done more for the growth of concrete packages than the previous government did. So in this way we can really be very satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144443	Thank you, Prime Minister. And the question time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144520	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144541	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 8 by Søren Pind (V), John Dyrby Paulsen (S), Søren Espersen (DF), Zenia Stampe (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF), Mette Bock (LA) and Lars Barfoed (KF). And now we have a vote. Has everyone voted? That concludes the vote. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. It has thus been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 7 of Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144700	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 5 by Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), Torsten Schack Pedersen (V), Astrid Krag (S), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Nadeem Farooq (RV), Frank Aaen (EL), Brian Mikkelsen (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG). And a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 107 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. That is why the proposal has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 6 of Ole Birk Olesen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144815	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is no such thing; that is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144843	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 109 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144935	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone here wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202144947	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. Thus the bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145021	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145051	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145125	Does anyone wish to speak? It is for the co-treatment of L 16 and L 10. Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145204	This proposal is intended to ensure that risk capital is paid up by the employees, but it does not ensure that the payers have control over the company. Nor does it ensure that it can only take place in companies in real crisis, and it does not even ensure that employees' elected representatives are guaranteed protection and rights in the same way as shop stewards. Also, workers made redundant are not guaranteed reimbursement of their paid-up capital. And if things go wrong, so that the company closes, the deposit is not guaranteed by the Employees' Guarantee Fund, so that it covers them. In short, it looks like a lavish roof-top for all employers who, with lay-off threats, can pressure their employees to accept a real wage cut. Therefore, Enhedslisten considers that the scheme as a test scheme should apply only to firms with at least 35 employees in real difficulty. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, and since the proposal is one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to a debate which took place at Bornholm, where a slaughterhouse was threatened with closure, and to point out that there was a voluntary agreement which ensured in essential areas the things that we have tabled as amendments. It is therefore disgraceful that a social democratic minister cannot even take on board the improvements, the good things that the employer and the trade union negotiated at Bornholm. It should, however, be the minimum of the work of the Minister for Industry and Growth when he makes such a proposal. We are tabling a number of amendments to improve this here and to improve the safety of workers in the situation where they are going to create such a fund and in the situation where that fund is going to help save their business. If they are not included as a minimum, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145404	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145413	As my colleague from the Enhedslisten has just said, we have tabled some amendments together from the SF and the Enhedslisten. When we first heard in the SF that these employee investment companies were en route, we almost cheered. After all, it is a very old idea that one can influence one's own working life by reaching a compromise in which some of one's own pay is actually made available to a closed company, thereby influencing one's own working life and addressing some of the threats that come from globalisation in relation to job closure. But as Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned, we believe that there are some concrete things in this bill that should be improved before we can vote for it, and that is why we are waiting in the SF third reading before we take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202145515	We shall vote first on the amendments to L 16. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL and SF) and a vote can be taken. In favour 18 (SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 1 (V) (by mistake), 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) voted against 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 92 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 92 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal was rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 5 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 6 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 88 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 7 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 92 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 8 members of the Committee? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 9 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 92 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 10, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG))? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 13 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 92 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 10. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150155	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150225	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150259	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150319	Thank you. L 40 is the implementation of a partial agreement from the growth package of June this year, which SF is not part of. But we have a service to the honourable thing: we have an amendment which we think will do a lot better, especially in these times of Lux Leaks and tax soundings, etc. And the amendment reads: "1. au 4. shall apply only to tax-free portfolio shares issued by companies fiscally resident in a foreign State which is a member of the EU or the EEA, in the Faroe Islands, in Greenland or in a State which has a double taxation agreement with Denmark which includes dividend taxation. ▪ We think it is perfectly reasonable that we should only make these agreements with countries that are not tax havens, which are either EU or EEA members or with which we have a double taxation agreement. That is why we are entering into a sea of double taxation agreements with other countries. That is because we think it would otherwise be completely unreasonable. Basically, we are opposed to this tax relief, which is covered by the fact that it is helping small entrepreneurs. It is also a real tax relief for very large companies. However, we think that this amendment could at least ensure that the tax relief does not go to companies in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150438	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Yes, there is, sir. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150445	We are in fact going through a very good period with the government at the moment, when we are going against various kinds of tax havens. This afternoon we have a meeting with the Minister for Business and Growth, tomorrow we will have it with the Minister for Taxation, and we expect to step up our efforts against tax havens. Unfortunately, we have seen that in one department the government goes against tax havens, and then it is decided in the Ministry of Finance to sell shares in DONG to Goldman Sachs in tax havens. We have also had a discussion about a double taxation agreement with Ghana, which also does not quite meet the requirements that the government otherwise says it has. That is why I really think that someone from the government should go up and speak and tell us why we cannot support an amendment which simply says no to the use of tax havens when it comes to using a tax hoax. That's what we call it, for example. The researcher's tax, which is also used by athletes and all sorts of other good people who make a lot of money so that they can get away cheaply with taxes. But why can the treasure... Now I apologize, I just got to mess it up with another bill, but why can't one decide to vote in favour of those who want to use tax havens not being able to get the tax advantage set up here. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150614	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150626	I would just like to refer, for the record, to the answers to Question No. 1 and 2 which have emerged during the legislative procedure and which I have answered. That is what concerns the EU rules, which I also refer to in my reply, that is to say that the free movement of capital is, of course, a prerequisite that we must fulfil. That is why, of course, I also reject this amendment, according to the fact that it has been pointed out during the legislative process. Then perhaps I think it should be pointed out to the SF's rapporteur that Luxembourg is an EU country for the sake of good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150705	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150708	Perhaps not everyone in the Folketing has read the tax minister's reply or read it with the same interest as I have. In his reply, the Minister refers to the free movement of capital, including in relation to countries which are not EU countries. I just have to say that, right now, there is a discussion in the European Union about the fairness of tax havens and about the grey area rules that we see. An assessment, an estimate, has been made by the Ministry. I respect that. But that does not mean that it is cut in stone and granite, and that is why I cannot understand why the Minister will not challenge more by saying: is it right now that the European Union and the Commission, with a President of the Commission from Luxembourg who is being examined, will say no to Denmark introducing a safeguard clause? I think it could be a rather interesting discussion both in the European Parliament and in the Commission if they said no to it. So I don't understand why the Minister isn't more interested in trying this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150807	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150809	We had an excellent debate on Thursday at the latest. the safeguard rule that we expect to be implemented in ECOFIN at ECOFIN's next meeting on 9 December, and which includes: must help to stem a number of challenges that the SF itself has also helped to point out. But for the very purpose of preventing the free movement of capital, it is, of course, a basic requirement in the European Community that we do not. That is why I do not think it would be relevant. There are many other ways in which we can stem the challenges identified by the rapporteur, and indeed we intend to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150846	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150857	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 outside the report by Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 17 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 93 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. That is why the amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202150940	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151018	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It can be a little quieter while you go out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151100	Anybody want to make a statement? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151127	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151143	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151213	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151227	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151304	The debate is open. It is Hans Andersen, Left, as the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151322	Thank you. The draft law, L 80, is part of the implementation of the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement in the field of employment. The draft law proposes that a single parent under 30 years of age with a child placed outside the home should in future be able to receive training or cash assistance or a single-parent allowance in the SU system. In other words, there will be changes in the definition of a single provider by the rules on education and cash benefits so that they will meet the requirements in the future. The proposal introduces an exception whereby, in future, single parents do not have to acquire the right to additional family allowances in order to be able to receive training and cash benefits on the basis of the single-parent rate. This agreement, with this bill, is about 15 million. kr. This measure, which can help some 500 single parents to have a reasonable financial situation, will be implemented annually. Furthermore, the bill proposes that young people participating in a specially organized youth education, also known as STU, should be able to earn up to DKK 24,000 in the future. before taxes per year. In the case of a young person who is not entitled to an allowance in respect of his or her education, he or she is entitled to an allowance in respect of his or her education. This provides a greater incentive for young people to make an extra effort, and this proposal will cost 5 million. kr. annual. It is proposed that this bill will enter into force on 1 January 2015. In the Left, we support the bill. In particular, I am pleased that young people in specially organized education will now be able to take a leisure job without seeing that there is a violent set-off in what they serve. I am convinced that this can help to encourage more young people to get a foot into the labour market. After all, it is incredibly important that we create incentives for young people to enter employment, whether in education or in the labour market. That is why I am also delighted that with this bill we are taking a step in the right direction. Against this background, the Left supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151552	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151602	Today we are discussing a bill that is part of the pool agreement agreed by all parties of the Folketing except Enhedslisten. With that agreement, we agree to support those citizens of our society who have the hardest and the most vulnerable. It is citizens who are outside the working community but who we must not give up. That is why, overall, we have to deal with good initiatives in this Chamber today. We place money so that young people at STU have the opportunity to have leisure jobs without any set-off, and then we ensure financial equality between single parents who have a child who is placed outside the home. This makes good sense, and it is in line with the intentions of the cash aid reform: first and foremost, it is a question of ensuring that cash aid will never be a permanent condition, but only temporary aid once all other options have been exhausted and, of course, also of getting people into permanent employment or training as quickly as possible. With the cash aid reform, we want to meet different people with different demands. We do this because we believe that this is the best solution and the best way to get people to work. Young cash benefit recipients are met with a requirement for training, while adult cash benefits recipients meet with a requirement to find work. This means that, instead of now, young people are receiving a benefit, the so-called education aid, which is the same as an SU. It is quite reasonable that these young people should be treated in the same way as other young people in education. But this must of course take account of the conditions of each young person; if one is ready for education, one must in education, or else one must have the help that is needed. In order to achieve these objectives in the best possible way, there are a few small things that need to be adjusted. For the Socialists, work and education are both important elements in a meaningful life. Of course, it works particularly well when the two complement each other. In the Social Democratic Party we think that the specially organized youth education is a very good initiative, in which young people with disabilities or other difficulties are given the opportunity to undertake youth education and participate in adult life. That is why we think it is quite reasonable for these young people to be equal to other young people in education and to earn up to DKK 24,000. In addition to the training provided annually, it is not intended to reduce the amount of their training aid. It provides more room for manoeuvre while keeping young people on the right track. The Socialists would also like to help ensure that young single-parents under 30 years of age with a child in care will in future be entitled to single-parent allowances, whether it is an education or an SU. Basically, we believe that education is one of the most important sources of a good and stable working life and that everyone should have the opportunity to undertake education as a starting point. Young people with a child, whether placed or not, also deserve that opportunity. The Socialists can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151910	Thank you. There's just one brief comment I wanted to make on my screen. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202151920	Thank you. Now the proposal we are discussing here today is not about making demands. It is about putting some much-needed patches on errors and shortcomings in the cash aid reform, for which the rapporteur himself is politically jointly responsible, along with all the other parties here in the Folketing. And, of course, it is gratifying to correct some of the maladministration that was involved in the cash benefits reform. The Enhedslisten can only support this, as will also be shown in our rapporteur's speech. What puzzles me is the funding. Why is it that the funding should be drawn from the rate pool? That means that all the transfer income will be on its own to finance this. That is to say, all those who are in employment, and not least the high-paid and those who earn a lot of money, do not contribute as much as a bent penny to this excellent project. How can you even get that idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152025	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152027	What is behind this proposal is a desire, as the author also says, to put a patch in those places where it might have been done a little better. I'd like to admit that. That is also what has been the driving force behind the negotiations that have been about this. And to ensure that this could be done, there was a consensus among the parties in the conciliation circle that this was a way of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152056	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152057	Thank you. Yeah, I've seen that in the bill. That is the way it has been found to be done. I am just calling for the explanatory statement and would just like to point out that neither the rapporteur nor the government has addressed the Enhedslisten in the context of the financial law negotiations, where otherwise there would have been a chance to solve this problem, as well as the other good things that we are about to talk about. I hope that the rapporteur agrees with much more solidarity funding. I know it is not much money we are talking about, and if you are going to figure out how much the individual will pay by one model and the other model, there are probably not many bastards in difference. But it's all about principles. Why do the groups in society have the least, namely those on transfer income, who alone have to bear the financing of these good proposals? So, what is the reason for this? That's what I'm looking for. And I have not received an answer to that yet; I hope it will come in the second round then.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152148	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152154	Well, I think I can almost only repeat what I said before. Here I said that when we looked into each other's eyes in the conciliation circle, there was an opportunity to sort this out in a good and fast way, and that is why we agreed that it should be done in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152209	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152217	Thank you, President. This bill translates parts of the rate pool, and in this context we have agreed that we need to look at how we can help young people who are in the youth training programme STU, specially organized training. For a long time, when they have been in education, they have had no opportunity to earn anything beside what other SU recipients who are in the course of an education have had. To help young people who have little problems, we have made it such in an agreement in the rate pool that you can earn up to DKK 24,000. before tax per year, without deduction from the person's education allowance. It is a very good arrangement and we must of course hope that a great many of the young people can get a small job so that they can earn a little more. At any rate, it is not now the case that they are being set off that prevents them from taking a job. In this respect, when the rate pool expires, we must review the continuation of the initiative, and I hope that this will, of course, be passed on to the Finance Act at that time, because it is not just training that expires and disappears immediately. Then there is additional funding for initiatives for single-parent young people under the age of 30 who have placed a child. They must have the right to receive the single-parent rate of training or cash benefits or in the SU system. This is justified by the fact that even if they have their children, there are quite a few times where they have the child at home, and that is why, of course, they must also feel that they have a surplus to care for that child when they have the child at home and do something for the child. There may be many reasons why you have a child placed outside the home. This does not mean that you are completely cut off from having anything to do with the child. So it's a good arrangement. We have agreed on this in the movement pool and, as we see in the Danish People's Party, it was a great wish of the government that this problem should be resolved. This was perhaps something that was overlooked in the context of the cash aid reform, and that solution then comes into the rate pool. The Danish People's Party had actually wanted us to have found the money in the Finance Act, but of course we support the agreement we have made and we have agreed that we found the money in the Rate Pool. However, the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill as we are part of the agreement on the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152506	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152512	Thank you. Now I understand that the rapporteur has taken up my question and raised the question of this pool of rates. So, I understand that the Danish People's Party has stood firm, but apparently all alone, in the fight for it to be financed in a more solidarity and orderly way than the result, namely that it is the poor themselves who are allowed to pay for it here. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152536	Well, you could say that. We have expressed the wish that it should be financed in a different way, but of course we also accept that this is the way it could be financed. I don't need to be smart about where the government can find the money. Mr. I'm sure Finn Sørensen is more than I am when Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen has been involved in negotiating the Finance Act, where there could have been an opportunity to find some money in this regard. I'm not gonna be smart about that. However, when you are in a pool of rates negotiations and there is a desire for something to go through, and it is presented that it can be financed in a certain way, and we cannot immediately agree to find funding elsewhere, then of course the Danish People's Party accepts it. It is not the case that you can completely block the things that are going on in the bet pool. But we are clearly behind the agreement that we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152630	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152631	But am I to understand that the Danish People's Party confirms that one is the only party that has fought for more solidarity funding and that it is against this background that one has abandoned one's fundamental view that such things should not be financed through the pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152651	So what the views of other parties are in this regard, Mr. Finn Sørensen actually asks the party rapporteurs. I can only comment on the view of the Danish People's Party on that. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party accepted that the funding in the rate pool was the way it is. And, of course, we stand by that. That was the way it could be financed. It is the case that when a pool of rates is negotiated, there are some parties that want something, and other parties then want some other things, and then we have to come to an agreement. You have to give something to get something else, and that's the game that's going on around the rate pool... that's how politics is. If you stand firm and don't want to do anything, you don't get anything through yourself. Those are the rules of the game. It may be, sir. Finn Sørensen will find out at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152738	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152745	Thank you. As my Socialist fellow rapporteur rightly said, this is a proposal to show social responsibility to some of our most vulnerable citizens. We do that, for example. young single parents under 30 years of age whose child has been placed outside the home and young people participating in specially organized youth education who are then allowed to earn up to 24,000 DKK. before taxes a year by working without being set off. I believe that this is a good social policy, and we can do so in the support of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152831	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202152841	If you are a young person who has had very difficult conditions in his life, all studies show that getting a leisure job is very, very constructive. This simply means that the risk of getting involved in crime is reduced and the risk of leaving education is also reduced. It is therefore a very good and reasonable idea that when you are young at STU, specially organized youth education, where the income you receive is not very high, you are now allowed to have a leisure job where you can have a certain salary, without having to offset the benefit you receive, because you go to STU, that is to say, education aid. That was one half of the proposal. The second half of the proposal then concerns single parents on educational assistance whose child or children are placed outside the home for a period of time. It has then been an unintended thing in the cash benefits reform that so far it has been the case that immediately the children were gone, even though it was for a temporary period, the maintenance allowance for the mother disappeared. This is, of course, unreasonable, because the whole idea is that the children should be able to return at some point, and so it is no good that the mother can no longer afford to have the apartment she has had so far, because there must also be room for the children. It is also possible to talk about association along the way, which is why it is both socially fair and in this way very good that single parents on educational aid will in future also receive family allowances, even when the children are placed outside the home. The SF can therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153030	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153033	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that there are some very good things here. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur feel about the fact that it is financed through the rate pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153042	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153044	So, SF's view of the rate pool is that it is not the most fair funding that exists here in society, absolutely not. It is strange that many of the projects financed there have to be, for example. I don't share in paying for through my taxes. This applies equally to a lot of other people who are in work. So if SF were the only party, there would have been another funding, but now we're not as big as you would have liked, and so we're part of this joint venture and we're also contributing to this funding. Having said that, it is most important for us that the social imbalances involved in this case are resolved, and this is the way it is done, although it would ideally be desirable to have the funding adjusted differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153138	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153140	Thank you. So it is just that I ask: is there no limit at all to what that bet pool can be used for? We are dealing here with a number of things in connection with which one rapporteur after another takes the floor and admits that there were some flaws and shortcomings in the cash aid reform. We'd like to make them right with this bill. Then we'll just take the money from the poor, and then they'll be allowed to finance it. Well, isn't there any limit to what that bet pool can be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153211	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153213	Yeah, I'd say there is. But then, when the rate-pool reform was carried out it was before my time in the Danish Parliament; I think it was around 2003 that there was a large increase in the rate of early retirement. So it was also done that part of the funding was taken from the pool funds. So you can see that the way it is administered is a mixture of individual projects and something that has a longer purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153246	Thank you. And then, actually, it's sir. Finn Sørensen. Is there another question? There's nothing? Fine. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Is it as rapporteur? ) Yes. Well, then it's sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur. Nor do I think that the Enhedslisten tends to neglect an apartment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153322	I apologize to the President. I heard it as if the President asked me if I had any more questions, and I had used the two I had the right to ask, so that is why. This bill contains two positive improvements that we can only support. It is good that the young breadwinners, who are badly affected when their children are placed, get some more money to live on. Then there is better advice for them to have association with the children. As several rapporteurs have explained, it was, in fact, an oversight or something that slipped away in connection with the cash aid reform, so it is really good and high time that this was corrected. It is also good that the young people at STU, who already have many difficulties to deal with, are allowed to earn some extra money which they can then keep. So Enhedslisten supports the proposals. But we simply think it is too bad that these much-needed improvements for some of the people in our society who have the very least have to be financed through the rate pool. Because this means that these improvements are financed exclusively by people who already have very little to live for, not least those who are helped by the proposals, while all of us well paid do not pay for it. So these improvements should have been part of the Finance Act, and I think that the conciliation parties should be ashamed that they are sinking so deeply. It is easy enough to play Santa Claus for the poor's own money, and I think it is important that we have some discussions about what that pool of rates will be used for in the future, but of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153500	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153522	This bill is the implementation of the wage-pool agreement in the field of employment. We can say that some errors have been corrected here which at least the government thought had been committed in the cash benefits reform. I would like to say that, as a starting point, I find it problematic to correct errors which are believed to have been made in a reform, in the pool of rates; in principle, we find this problematic. But that's the way it is now. After all, the bet pool has the structure that everyone has to reach some kind of agreement, and since this was a key element in the government's proposal for a wage-pool agreement in the field of employment, it is this way. There are two main elements. One part we think is a good idea, because it ensures that young people on special education can earn DKK 24,000. before tax, without being drawn into their education aid. We think this is a sensible element which equates them with others who are in the education system; it makes sense that there is an incentive to take up leisure work. The second part concerns the entitlement of single parents on cash benefits under 30 years of age with this bill to cash benefits and family allowances if their children are placed outside the home. The reason for this bill is that many cash aid recipients would not agree to voluntary placements when they realised that they were losing money on it. You may then like what you want, but we would probably have liked some sort of modulation in this, because not everyone gets their children to have association with them. And in those cases, I have to say that I cannot understand the need for cash benefits on dependents. But now it's like this, and it's part of the bet pool, and we're voting in favour of the proposal. However, I would like to say at the very end that Enhedslisten has now said several times that it is they on transfer income who finance this, and that is of course nonsense from one end to the next. For not a single penny in the rate pool comes from people on public support; they come from people at work. It is, of course, the case with the rate pool that transfer income is regulated less, and as transfer income comes from people at work, it is a matter of giving a little less to people on transfer income, but it is not an indication that it is they who pay. That's logic for caged hens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153832	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153837	Thank you. I am not going to comment on the intelligence of battery hens, but I am just going to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that the rate pool is being financed, because it depends on the wage trend and some percentages; now we are just taking the principle of a deduction in the regulation of the transfer income, and that is where the money comes to the rate pool. Do we agree that this is how it's screwed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153906	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153909	We are in complete agreement on this. It is the case that when you are on transfer income, you receive some tax paid by some other people. The regulation then means that one receives a little less tax, but that does not mean that one is helping to finance it. It's still those who go to work who finance it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153931	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153934	Thank you. Can the rapporteur also confirm that even people on transfer income pay taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153940	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202153942	Yes, it is true that they receive some tax, and then they pay back something from that tax. Now, if you did so that they did not pay taxes and reduced the amount they received immediately, which they pay in tax, it would make no difference whatsoever to the state's finances. So it's actually silly that they pay taxes, because it doesn't make any difference, it doesn't matter from time to time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154007	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154011	These are, after all, some interesting considerations that come out here, about the social vision of the Liberal Alliance and the mechanisms we have in society. When I take the floor, it is because I do not agree with the way it is said. But I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, whether we agree that as members of parliament we receive a salary from the taxpayers of Denmark. There's gonna be a nod on the platform. So do we also agree that members of parliament are also on transfer income?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154044	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154046	It is true that our remuneration is financed in the same way as a transfer income, in other words by receiving tax from some who have been productive in the labour market and have paid tax to us. That's right. It is also true that we reduced our pay or pay by what we pay in taxes, so that they said that we did not pay taxes and then got the less money, so it would not make any difference overall. It is actually quite unusual for you to pay tax on your transfer income. I do not believe that in many countries this is actually done. It's a way we've chosen to conform. It is probably about having had some political desire to feel but it is just a feeling; it is not something that makes any concrete difference. As I said, transfer income could be reduced by what you pay in tax on them, so that you did not pay tax, and then it would make no difference at all. It's just a fact, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154150	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154152	I understood the answer as a yes to the fact that members of parliament are also on transfer income. I guess the question is, is that income not too high?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154205	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154206	No, that's not how it gets now that you're on transfer income when you're in Parliament. A transfer income is something one is entitled to under certain circumstances, so there are some objective criteria on which one can be entitled to cash benefits or cash benefits or early retirement. There's a manual of benefits... social benefits... I think it's called... and it doesn't stand as a transfer income. This requires that objective criteria are met; it is something to which we are entitled under completely objective circumstances. You do not have the right to sit in the Folketing, which is why the remuneration is not, of course, a transfer income. I do not really think the rapporteur himself thinks so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154253	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154256	Well, this is a very interesting discussion. I just think I just need to hear Mr. Knox's voice. Joachim B. Olsen's last remark to clarify that the allowance is not a transfer income. It's an insurance scheme that you pay for. Then we can always talk about the other arrangements. Just to get the rapporteur to clarify that too. Cash benefits are not a transfer income; they are an insurance scheme to which they are paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154318	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154320	No, that's not correct. Cash benefits are a transfer income. It also counts when you look at the list of transfer income, i.e. how many people are on transfer income, then the benefit recipients count as well as the rapporteur knows. And the rapporteur is also well aware that the insurance part of the benefit system is far from financing the entire benefit system. That's why we're here. discussing it in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154341	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154343	Yeah, it's a violent discussion we can have about this. I know it's a long way from the subject, but we'll have to take that another day. I think that the rapporteur should go home and read out what are transfers and what are assurances. Cash benefits are not a transfer; cash benefits are a right granted after earning the right to benefit. This has nothing to do with transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154402	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154404	I think it's Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, who has to read out what transfers in Denmark are subject to transfer income. He can do that with a very quick Google search. And then he will see, when you look at who is on transfer income in Denmark at working age, that then count benefit recipients there. It is completely uncontroversial to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154424	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154434	As the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, cannot be present, I have promised to read out her speech: as a party to the tariff pool we can, of course, Conservatives support the proposal. In particular, we welcome the part that allows young people in a specially organized youth education, i.e. the STU, to earn something more alongside their education aid. After all, young people at STU are young people with physical and/or mental challenges, who get training adapted to their abilities and needs. Young people, like everyone else, enjoy a link with the labour market, even while studying, if at all possible. The aim of the STU is precisely to prepare young people for the life that follows the training. And an early introduction to an otherwise as normal working life as possible is therefore naturally a huge advantage for young people. Other young people today also have the opportunity to make money alongside their SU, without being counted against the first crown, and of course these young people should also have the opportunity to do so. This will give young people a much better starting point for getting to work after the end of education, so it is gratifying that we are now implementing the proposal. The second part of the proposal is somewhat less pleasing. The proposal has been put forward to ensure that parents do not fight against the necessary placement of their children for economic reasons. Of course, there are costs associated with having to see your child, but basically it is sad that the economy has to play a role and can cause some to resist doing what is best for the child. However, children who are exposed to home failures are so obviously our very weakest citizens, and we should therefore do everything we can to ensure that they have the best possible conditions for growing up. And voluntary placement with sensible cooperation with parents is now preferable to a lot of coercive measures. Therefore, this is a pragmatic proposal which is not necessarily reasonable but which, in turn, can make life just a little easier for the most vulnerable children in our society. For this reason, the proposal is good and it is also necessary so that the Conservative People's Party can vote in favour of L 80.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154652	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154704	Thank you. I can be brief, as I think all the rapporteurs have been very precise in explaining what the intentions have been with this bill. That is why I do not need to repeat what you might just say: we are talking here about a small legislative proposal, which, however, is very important for the people it affects. And it is not so bad that Parliament can contribute to it, by the way I can understand it in very broad agreement. So I would like to tell the committee that I will help as well as I can with any questions that may exist, so that we can have a committee procedure as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154745	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154749	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I do believe in a speedy reading of the committee, but we are not going to go through things in this Chamber. That is why I have, after all, and I think the Minister had guessed that it would come to the same questions about funding: how does the Minister actually feel about letting the rate pool finance such a proposal? It is, in fact, a matter of what to say, not necessarily a recognition of the fact that you were wrong as such in the cash benefits reform, but a recognition that there were some inappropriate things that we can correct, and so you do. But why do people on transfer income have to finance it? For that is what I want to insist that they do, regardless of what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen claims. I do not understand that and I hope the Minister can explain it to me. When I ask, it's another reason. Because is the reason why it is done in this way, the fact that the savings that also came out of the cash benefits reform have all been used for tax cuts? So the money has been used for tax relief, and therefore there was only one way out: to dive into the so-called poor's Finance Act, which is a misnomerial term, namely the rate pool to find poor 15 million. kr. a year to realize this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154910	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202154912	I can explain it easily, but if the explanation satisfies Mr. Finn Sørensen, you're gonna have to come up with a test. I do, and it is perhaps important to start with, have a different approach to the rate pool than Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten have. I think we should also remember what the historical justification for the fact that we have a pool of rates really is. It is true that before we got the rate pool, if you were on a transfer income, you would have to hold your breath every year, because what would happen in the context of the financial law negotiations? What would be the regulation for one's transfers? There we made a mechanism with the rate pool, which I think has helped to create great security for the people who are on transfer income, namely that there is a development here such as the general development of society in general. Then you were free to see what would happen in that year's Finance Act; you came on the other side of that. And out of it came the regulation that is also described here, and there are then funds in surplus that go to the beneficiaries of the rate pool funds. I just want to say that I think we had a problem and everyone has realized that it was there. We had the opportunity to solve it in the bet pool, and thus we could create a solution. And I feel that way, sir. Finn Sørensen, I'd rather have a bird in my hand than ten birds on the roof.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155022	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155025	Thank you. Now no one could know what would have happened if the matter had been taken into account in the financial law negotiations. It is not quite unrealistic to imagine that we could have found 15 million in those negotiations. kr. to solve this in a more united way. I did not get an answer to my question: that is, when you dive into this rate pool, is it because the savings that were made in the cash benefits system have actually been spent on reductions in corporation tax? Is that why, and do you think you just had to let the poor themselves pay for this? I would like to hear a comment on that; I did not get it. Then I would like to say that I am glad that the Minister is diving into the past. That's what I'm gonna do. I just don't want to dive deep. I will only go back to 2008, when the Social Democrats Congress decided that this movement pool thing was an unfair mechanism that had to be abolished. But now the Minister is saying that this is a very good mechanism. Does the Socialist Minister agree with his own hinterland?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155134	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155135	I don't disagree with anyone at all. I would just point out the fact that if we do not replace the rate-pool scheme that we have today with something else that is at least as sustainable, it is those who are on transfer income who can pay the price. I do not think there would be any solidarity development in Danish society if it were the case that this was something we had to decide from Finance Act to Finance Act, where there could be other things that, as in this year's Finance Act, were more important. In this way, with the mechanism that is now in place, we have ensured that those who are on transfer income will have a regulation similar to that of everyone else in society. Then I have to say that you can make the link between cash benefits and tax relief and cash benefits and growth packages and early retirement. What's crucial, sir. Finn Sørensen, is to see what this overall picture is left of, and that is that with the reforms that the government has implemented, the growth packages that we have implemented, yes, we have created a better and more stable situation in Denmark. And it also has the very important thing in it that we have got more in work and it is also some of them that we are talking about here today that we really should like to get even closer to the labour market. So I'm happy to be on target for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155240	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155253	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155321	Thank you. Bill L 81 is part of the implementation of the 2015 Finance Act concluded by the Government, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. The draft law proposes, inter alia, the abolition of the requirement of mutual dependants for cohabitants in the constant aid system, which would mean that one person in a paperless relationship can receive cash benefits even if the other party is in well-paid employment. Furthermore, the proposal provides for the abolition of the lowest rate of dependency, higher housing security for young couples with children, special support for young people under the age of 30, no deduction of rent income for lodgers in their own homes, etc. Nearly 800,000 Danes today are on public support, and they are of working age. This is an important burden for our society, and at the same time it has a high human cost to be placed outside the working community. We must and must be able to do better. It is therefore absolutely essential that work should be worthwhile in the future, and this draft law points in the very wrong direction. The Finance Act as a whole does not contain a single growth-creating initiative, and this proposal is no different. This is undoubtedly thought-provoking in view of Denmark's boring economic situation. Basically, the money spent by the government, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party on abolishing the mutual dependents has been very badly spent. On the contrary, the proposal does not get any more work. As I said, the abolition of the mutual dependent will mean that one person in a paperless relationship can receive cash benefits even if the other is in well-paid employment. In fact, the abolition reduces employment by 1,100 jobs, and in addition, the dependent will continue to apply to married couples. It is, after all, unfair discrimination against married and cohabitants. In other parts of our legislation, the consequences of changing family patterns have already been taken into account in Denmark. The law on family allowances already provides for the concept of a genuine single person as a criterion for the award of family allowances. The same applies to the children's law, which has extended the rights of cohabitants in relation to joint children. The abolition of mutual dependents will cause several couples who today have paper on each other to divorce without moving apart. The bill, the government's financial law agreement at all, is, to say the least, not a solution that will ensure more private jobs and more growth in Denmark. The government wants a financial law that actively pulls people away from the labour market. On the contrary, the Left will create more jobs and make it more attractive to work, and on that basis the Left cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155638	There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155643	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am not surprised that, as soon as the Left succeeds in improving the conditions of some of the people who have the most difficulty in this society, they are prepared to vote against it. What I would like to know is: will the Left reinstate the mutual dependent of co-living cash aid recipients if it goes so wrong that the Left will decide something after the next parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155712	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155714	We think it is a very healthy principle that if you can, you have to support yourself and your family. And it has to happen whether you have paper on each other or not. It may be an old-fashioned principle, but it is a very sensible and healthy principle. That is also the answer to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that we will then bring mutual dependants with us when we present our proposals for reform of the cash benefits system. Then we will take this into account in the discussion that is to take place. We are concerned first and foremost with creating a modern cash aid ceiling, but we will then take this element into account, because we believe that this is an unfair discrimination shown by the parties in the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155805	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155807	Thank you for your answer. I think that was a very clear answer. I would like to conclude by saying that I understood the answer, otherwise the rapporteur will have to correct me that the Left will reinstate the mutual dependent of co-living cash benefits recipients if they gain power after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155844	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155846	That will certainly be part of the discussion we are going to have. Our starting point is a modern cash aid ceiling, and in the discussion we will have if the Left sits at the table after the next elections, we will then have to discuss how to set up a cash assistance system in such a way that there is no discrimination and that we do not, what to say, withdraw people from the labour market, but ensure that there is an incentive to actually take a job. I find it strange that there should now be this difference between married and roommates, that is to say that it is now intended to ensure that for those who live as roommates, one can earn a fortune while the other can receive cash benefits. I also hope that one day the Enhedslisten will see the unfairness of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202155946	These are very unclear answers to the clear question that is being asked. That is why I am going to supplement it by putting it again: will the Left go to the elections to reinstate the mutual dependants of people on cash benefits, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160003	The left will propose a modern cash aid ceiling. That is the starting point for the Left. We are proposing a job reform in which one element is a modern cash aid ceiling and the other element is that we will reduce the tax for those who have the lowest wage incomes. In the discussion of the cash benefits system, we believe that the re-establishment of mutual dependants will be included, because we believe that it is unreasonable to do that discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160032	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160035	That was the third unclear answer to a very clear question. I would warn anyone who wants fair social conditions in Denmark against voting on the Left, because I think that behind it it is hiding that you want to reinstate the mutual dependent. But I would like to ask another question. Today it is the case that if there is a roommate who is both on cash benefits and one gets a job, the person on cash benefits will lose his cash benefits. By making the amendment we are discussing today, it will actually happen that if a couple are on cash benefits and one of the two gets a job, they will keep their cash benefits on cash benefits. In other words, there is a greater incentive for cash benefits recipients to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160122	This is just very badly in line with the calculations given for what the employment impact of this proposal is. That, sir. Eigil Andersen says now, very badly agrees with it. 1,100 people that is the figure that employment will be reduced by next year if you follow the government, SF and Enhedslisten's proposals here. 1 100 people will be pulled out of structural employment. That's not the way we're going. We have to make sure that working is worthwhile, and there's definitely no part of this element.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160158	Thank you. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160205	Thank you. This is something of a paddle we hear here today from the rapporteur of the Left on some very specific questions, in relation to what should happen if, if, in the event, the Left ever acquires power as they have been watching or what to say. I can only interpret it as saying that the Left will reinstate the mutual obligation. That must be the case, and there can be no doubt about that for a moment. I also understand that the Left blindly believes in theoretical calculations and does not listen to it, as my good colleague, Mr President. Eigil Andersen, says common sense, that if you are no longer affected by each other's transfer income, you have a greater incentive to take a job or start working. Well, no more about it! To my specific question, there is something I would just like to be absolutely sure of, given that the rapporteur mentions that 800 000 are outside the Danish labour market. So I just need a clear definition of which one of them is capable of working. I would like to see the rapporteur's definition of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160304	I think that a great many of the 800,000 more or less can work. In fact, there are also a number that are quite close to the labour market. However, it is also about the fact that we have together made arrangements that mean that people of working age are actually outside the labour market: it is about people on early retirement, it is about people on sickness benefits, and there are a number of transfer benefits here that are counted when we say that 800,000 are outside the workforce. But it's all about bringing them in. That's what we're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160346	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, second brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160347	So why don't we agree to say that if you're on sick leave, you're in this group, and then you're sick and you can't work. If you are on early retirement, you have a pension and are not going to work. If you are on early retirement, it is because it is a right you have been given by paying for it; it is a law we have passed here in the Folketing on various options, but it is also a right you have and then you should not work. If you're in flex jobs, you're actually in work, but you're also in this group. After all, those who are left are those who are actively seeking unemployment benefit beneficiaries and those who are selfemployed cash benefits recipients. And if I do my math, maybe we're close to 200,000 and no more. Can't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160431	Well, it is a fact that there are about 800,000 people in working age who are on transfer income. I think that is actually a fact. Then we can divide them into different categories. It is all people who should be part of the workforce, and many of them want to be. There are both people on early retirement and people on sickness benefits who want to participate. It is simply a question of them having an inquiry, and it may be from the municipality, it may be from the coffers that will help them back into the labour market. They want to be involved, and that is what this is all about, and we need to bring more of them with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160512	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance also asked for access to a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160518	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it really does not feel a little strange to stand on the platform and then be attacked by the Socialists for being opposed to this proposal to abolish the dependent, bearing in mind that it was the Socialists' own proposal. It was not something the bourgeois people brought to the table when a cash aid reform was put forward, it was the Social Democrats themselves. I will go as far as to call it hypocrisy. What would the rapporteur of the Left call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160553	I'm well aware of that, and that's sir. Joachim B. Olsen also said that this was part of the government's proposal, as the Minister for Employment was named Mrs Mette Frederiksen. And I have a number of quotes from Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who so strongly argues that this is a really sensible solution, that is to say that we have mutual dependants in this country. It can therefore be said that it is something of a trade in horses that has been concluded and a breach of many principles when one day it is said that this is the best cash aid reform that has been made for many, many years, after which only a small financial agreement is required to break with absolutely fundamental sound principles. I'm just saying thank you for the coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160642	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160656	Thank you, President. The proposal we are discussing today is part of the Community Finance Act for 2015, which was concluded between the Government, the SF and the Enhedslisten. Overall, this is a strong and balanced financial law, which is both responsible for the positive economic development that this government has set in motion while investing in the future. Together with the other parties, the Socialists create jobs and strengthen the community's good, healthy and not least red finance law. As part of the Finance Act, the mutual liability of cash benefits recipients is abolished. Basically, the Socialists think it right that cash aid should be given to those who cannot support themselves and who cannot be supported by their families. The mutual obligation for cohabitants was just introduced because we found that in today's Denmark the term family can also be used in households where you are not necessarily married. However, there may be some way from thought to action, and we have to realise that the mutual obligation for cohabitants has had significant consequences for a group of people in Denmark. At the same time, it has created a lot of trouble in the municipalities, where finding out whether two people are a couple is not straightforward. And then there's the possibility of using your partner's tax credit. All in all, I think that both the introduction and the abolition can be defended. The SF and Enhedslisten have taken a lead in the financial law negotiations, and we Social Democrats can certainly live with that. Then there are a number of other elements in the bill. These include, first and foremost, a series of targeted improvements for young people who are having a difficult time. With the government's cash aid reform, we have taken a fundamental stand against the idea that young people are receiving cash aid. They have to take an education or work; it should not pay to go home on cash benefits rather than to go to school. The basic idea is right and we can see that more young people are going into education. However, making such fundamental changes in thinking can also have inappropriate consequences for certain groups, which is why this bill also focuses on ensuring vulnerable young people on the edge of the labour market. Special attention is paid to those who have children. Specifically, some of the lowest rates for parents are abolished, and we are also making changes in relation to housing insurance and the deduction of rental income. These are therefore targeted improvements for the benefit of young people, families with children and their housing conditions. All in all, there are a number of sensible changes in a very important cash aid reform, without changing the basic ideas and values underlying the reform. That is why, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160950	Thank you. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202160958	I guess it's been a year and a half since we made a cash aid reform. The former Minister for Employment, Mette Frederiksen, presented the reform. One of the elements was the interdependence. She argued that in 2014 many people lived together, shared economics, children together, etc. without being married, and therefore it was considered unreasonable that there should be a difference between being together and being married. Now you are abolishing the mutual dependent, and that means for a couple living together that if one becomes unemployed, that person will be entitled to cash benefits worth just over DKr 120,000. gross per year if the person is over 30 years of age, whereas a completely comparable married couple with the same wage conditions that end up in the same situation will not have access to that money. Can the rapporteur explain what is reasonable in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161107	I also think it was clear when I made my speech before that there is both something that speaks in favour and something that speaks against. That is why we agreed to go into the agreement we made a year and a half ago, but also because we are saying no today and thus changing the terms of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161128	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161131	It is an unbelievable zigzag course that the Social Democratic Party is planning here. It is a party which does not seem to be able to figure out what kind of leg it should stand on, and I think the voters have seen that too. This is something that the Social Democrats themselves must be involved in, but what remains is that they have watered down the reform that was so much talked about at the time. It has reduced its impact, reduced the number of people who will be in employment in the future because of this reform, not only with this proposal, but also with other elements of this bill. Is it not incredibly unbelievable that such a fundamental approach to such a major element of reform can be changed in such a short time? And that is even something that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161223	To take the last point first, I would almost say that it would be even more foolish if we were not able to see when changes were to be made, and if we as politicians simply went on along the same track as we have always done, because that is what we used to do. As I said earlier in my rapporteur's speech, it is clear, as it stands now, one and a half years after we have drawn up the agreement, that the definition of when one is cohabiting is unclear and that there is still no possibility of creating real equality between cohabiting and married people, because there is no possibility of transferring the tax credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161259	Thank you. Then there are two more colleagues who have asked for access to short remarks. The first is Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161305	Thank you. I would really like to ask the rapporteur: if one would like to see the situation in which the Socialists came into opposition in a relatively short time and an agreement on a cash aid reform was again to be reached, which would then include an element of mutual dependency, what would the Socialists think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161333	I am absolutely convinced that this situation does not arise, and the next thing is that if we were to sit again in negotiations on mutual dependants, then there would be very clear requirements as to which things would have to be fulfilled in order for it to be introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161352	Sir. Hans Andersen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161355	I acknowledge that the Socialists are, in fact, still open to discussing mutual dependents. I think that is an excellent, sensible and responsible signal to send out. The question could then be: if we can deal with the fiscal issue that has been raised, will the Socialists support mutual dependants, in other words, in such a given situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161423	Well, to be very specific, I would like to say that the tax credit is one of the things that can be, and I can imagine that now we are talking a long way in the future, that there will also have been some new concerns that should have been overcome in order for it to be possible. But as I immediately see it, there is absolutely nothing in the pipeline for this to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161448	The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161453	The prerequisite for the whole of our welfare society construction is, I think, such an appealing social democratic idea of right and duty. That is why I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether the whole principle here is not about to break, that is to say that we are now removing the duty in relation to the rights we have; the duty and responsibility to help each other when you live together and when you have an address together. Does it not fully coincide with social democratic principles that we also have a responsibility in the society in which we live?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161533	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the honourable Member's appreciation of the good social democratic thinking. Now I also know that in very many contexts one can say that the things that have been done with such a social angle here in the Danish Parliament, we have just done with the Conservatives, so we may not be so far apart there. But it is precisely in relation to this question that it is clear from our side that the agreement we made 11⁄2 years ago has also proved to be untenable because of good arguments, and that is why we have also entered into this with open eyes and are now abolishing the mutual obligation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161614	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161616	I still think we need to get a little more into the core. I have great respect for the way in which we have organised our society and for which the Socialists have a very large share of responsibility. But it is based on a premise that there are duties and there are responsibilities. If you remove that coupling, if you say that it is the responsibility of all sorts of others, but that you do not have a duty yourself, if you say that it is always the neighbour who has to pay every time there is something, instead of taking responsibility for those you live with, your family etc. etc., then the whole foundation of our society falls. So I have to ask the Socialist rapporteur again how this is in line with a view that one would also like to have a welfare society in the future, where there are both rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161708	It's all right. It's all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161714	Thank you. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161717	Thank you. I did not really expect any questions to be asked to the rapporteur, because I am just delighted that we agree on this matter and are behind this bill together. But I do think that one of the answers to Mr. Hans Andersen gave rise to a question. Did I hear you right? Did I hear the rapporteur say that it could not be denied that there would be a debate after a parliamentary election on a new cash aid reform and that, under certain conditions, we could accept the reinstatement of this mutual dependency, which we now agree to abolish?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161758	Well, it was pure guesswork, and I can't even imagine that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161806	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161809	No, but now a lot of things are happening in our lives that we didn't imagine we were gonna be involved in. Nor do I believe that the rapporteur had imagined that more than a year ago this cash benefits reform was adopted. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, who was the rapporteur on that and the rapporteur's party in any case stubbornly defended the principle of mutual dependency against Enhedslisten's criticism of this, that one should be in a situation where it was abolished. That is why it is natural that I ask: will the rapporteur give a guarantee that the social democracy will not contribute to the re-establishment of the mutual dependent?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161853	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161855	It's very direct, and then you can choose to give a politician's answer to this. I think it is difficult to give guarantees as to what can happen in very many years' time, but as I see it, I do not see any change in what we decide today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161912	Thank you. The next Member who has asked for access to short remarks is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161919	I apologise very much to the President-in-Office, I have no questions. There was a wire in the way. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161929	Well, that's what happens sometimes. Then we move quickly on to the next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is quite right, I know, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202161939	Thank you. At least I've put myself in the right place, even though I've pushed the wrong button from the beginning. It happens to me, too. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about mutual dependents. After all, a transitional period of 1 year has been made, and as it is now, 2014 was a transitional period, and in the new system, where it has been abolished, it is said that 2015 must be a transitional period in which it continues, but with half impact, and then only from 2016 will it enter into force, and then it is completely gone. What is the reason for taking that transition period one more year and not just saying that it has to go all the way here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162022	Now I could again choose to do something about it, but it may be that the Minister will be able to answer it quite clearly in a few moments. However, as I understand it, it is part of the economic agreement that is where the opportunity to implement this is that it will be an escalation or a phasing-out over 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162041	Thank you. No more Members have asked for access to short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162056	Thank you, President. I hope that the Minister will be able to give an answer to the question I have put to him. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen on the transition period. This is, of course, a law that repeals the agreement on mutual dependents for cohabitants on cash benefits, and in this respect I should not forget to say that the Danish People's Party has said from the outset that what was done with the mutual dependents was a juxtaposition. It goes on to say that it is a question of equality with married couples, but that is not the case anyway, because there are 22-24 different things that a married couple have of benefits that co-living cash benefits could not have when they were to be covered by mutual dependants. The Danish People's Party has spoken against this. We entered into the negotiations when we established that both cohabitants should at least be 25 before they were mutually dependent. There is also the question of how long you have to live together before you can say that now you are a couple living together and must be included in it. It actually applied from day one if you were over 25 years old. This may not be the case many times with married couples, because often you live together before you choose to marry, and only then will you be covered by the fact that you are dependent on the spouse. So it doesn't work, but I would like to commend the government for being able to see that it was criticismable and that it didn't work as it should, and you shouldn't belittle the government for that, because you should also be ready as a politician when you learn that something doesn't work, to say: okay, this is no good, it needs to be changed again. So praise to the Minister for Employment for it, if the Minister for Employment otherwise accepts the praise that comes here now, because it is not often possible to praise the Minister. I don't even think the Minister is listening to what's being said from up here. There's something that might suggest it at least. But it is only remarkable that with the former minister it was not possible to change anything, but then there will be a new minister, and then you can change it. It might seem that the Minister is now waking up and listening to what is being said. Because the thing about praising a minister who doesn't listen isn't so good again, at least not for the minister. But the Minister is to be commended for the fact that it is now possible to change it, and in the Danish People's Party we have always said that this does not work, that it was not right and that it was not a good way to do this. There are also other measures under the law: the abolition of the lowest dependent on education and cash benefits; higher housing security for young couples under 30 with children living at home, changing the income limit for housing security; and the reintroduction of special support for 25-29 year olds. But what is important in this is that you change the famous interdependence that the Danish People's Party and I have said from the outset does not work and that it should never have been implemented in this way. The Danish People's Party only accepted it because we had some changes in the cash aid reform at the time, and so it was okay that we had to accept what the government wanted to have through. But one is allowed to become wiser, it is also sometimes the Danish People's Party, and has changed the attitude towards it. Such are the rules of the game, because when you can see that something does not work, you should not, of course, continue to hold onto that sort of thing. However, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal as it stands and we look forward to the discussion in committee. It may well be that some questions will be raised there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162449	Thank you. There are three colleagues who have asked for access to short remarks, and the first is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162456	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very nice speech, because the rapporteur will be voting in favour of the draft law. I had also waited for that to happen, after having noticed the statements made by the rapporteur and his party on this matter. Then the question comes. We have heard today from the rapporteur of the Left that the Left will reinstate this mutual dependent, who now has a comfortable majority in favour of abolishing. That requirement will be taken into account in negotiations on changes to the cash benefits rules following the parliamentary elections, and if the Left gets a majority, it will be included in the negotiations, and it was quite clear that Mr. Hans Andersen would very much like to reinstate what we are now abolishing here. My question to the Danish People's Party is: Will the Danish People's Party contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162556	I think we should be aware that the Left has their views on the various things and that we in the Danish People's Party have our views. We have announced that we can see no reason to cherish something that does not work. So what the Left looks like after an election, the Left has to change. But I believe that Peter Skaarup has said that there is no reason to reinstate something that has not worked and that we should then be ready to remove it again. It was something like that, I can't remember it literally. For my part, as rapporteur, I have to say that I have always said that it does not work with this mutual dependent. But what the Left wants after a choice, time must show. Perhaps that is why the Left is very keen to hear whether social democracy will help change anything. You never know what can happen in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162646	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162649	Thank you. After all, I did not ask the rapporteur what the Left wanted and did not want, because we have heard that from the platform. That was very clear. The left would reinstate the mutual dependent. I asked what the position of the Danish People's Party is. Will the Danish People's Party contribute to this? This has been done once because it seems that some other things were fixed in some major debate. Then you could live with it. Are you prepared to do it again? I can also ask you very directly: will the Danish People's Party here and now give us and all the voters a guarantee that, after a parliamentary election, it will not help to reinstate the mutual dependent of co-living cash benefits recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162731	This thing about giving guarantees from a platform, I think you have to be very careful. But as I have said, it is not the policy of the Danish People's Party. We have not liked the mutual dependent because it simply does not work in any good way, nor has it got more in jobs. What we need to do is to give direct guidance to those on cash benefits. They need help, they need a direct job effort, where you have to help them find a job and say to them: Here's a job, and if you don't want to take it, you're not entitled to any cash benefits either. If there's a job that you know he can do, then he has to take it. That's the way it is, and that's what you have to bet on, instead of looking at all this with the mutual dependent who doesn't work in any way whatsoever. But what the Left leads to after an election, I cannot say anything about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162822	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162826	I think you're just like sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten, that it is very gratifying that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of this bill which restores a social balance that should be present. But I am also concerned about what might happen after the next elections, if Denmark is hit by the political accident... what I hope there will be a bourgeois majority. It is clear that the Left Lure Passer; it is likely that the mutual dependent will be reinstated. A party like the Liberal Alliance, I expect, will also reinstate it, which is why I would also like to ask: do we know that the Danish People's Party says that the Danish People's Party cannot guarantee that the mutual commitment will not return?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162918	I can repeat this and say that the Danish People's Party does not see any reason why we have something that does not work and the mutual dependent does not work. It's bothering a lot, and it didn't get any more jobs. It may be said that the calculations show that it should have given 1,100 more in jobs, but I have not been able to see where those jobs have been and how people have got into jobs. I haven't been able to see that anywhere. What can help in this respect is that a direct job effort is made, helping the unemployed find a job and pointing out that here is a job you know they can do, and then they have to take it. If they don't, they'll lose the right to cash benefits. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202162956	Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163000	I think these are excellent arguments, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted here is coming with us. But it remains to be seen that we have to assume that the Left will make a strong commitment to the re-establishment of the mutual dependent. The Liberal Alliance will also restore it. It could then be in the power of the Danish People's Party to be the guarantor that this does not happen, so I would like to repeat my question: do I understand correctly that the Danish People's Party is not a safeguard against the reciprocal dependency being reinstated?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163034	No, sir. Eigil Andersen didn't get it right. For I have always said that mutual dependants are not something that has grown in the garden of the Danish People's Party. It's not something we like. We don't see it working. And what happens after a choice? After all, there is no guarantee that there will be a change of government. Of course, the polls show a lot, but a great deal can happen and that the Left and the Social Democrats come together after an election I cannot guarantee that they will not happen either. You never know. And if the SF goes into government after an election I can't guarantee anything about either. I think we should be careful to guarantee something in that game. Neither do any of us in here know if we will be re-elected after an election. We don't know anything about that, and I can't guarantee that we do either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163122	The provisional last colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163129	When a law is introduced, it is sometimes the case that there are some practical problems with its implementation. This may have been the case with the introduction of the mutual allowance it is not quite easy. But that is not an argument for removing it, because this is a question of principles. There may be some practical problems, but then you have to try to solve them. This is about some principles. I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party believes that when a couple have lived together for a long time and maybe have children together and a common economy and in every way live together, as if they had been married, it is a good principle that they support each other just as you expect a married couple to do. It is true that the couple then have the opportunity to make use of a bottom allowance worth about DKr 42,000, but now a cash help couple has the opportunity to make use of a cash benefit of about DKr 120,000. gross. Isn't it a good principle that you support yourself when you can, and in all sorts of other ways take responsibility for each other, even when you're not married?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163248	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163250	I think you have to be careful with the rhetoric that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has when he says that a married couple has a deduction they can make use of and that a cash help couple has the cash assistance they can use. What was in that agreement was precisely that the cash benefits couple had no deduction to lose. They could lose the one's cash benefits if they had above a certain income and they could not then make use of the deduction that a married couple can. Nor can they make use of the other 22 or 24 different rules that make you have an advantage in being married. This mutual dependent person will also come into force from the day of his or her actually moving together if both parties are over 25. It doesn't have anything to do with how many kids you have together or something. It did not work, and the Danish People's Party has spoken against it right from the start. During the negotiations, the Danish People's Party also opposed this. We accepted it because we got some changes through, yes. And the reform of cash benefits is not a settlement, it is an agreement that is valid until an election, and then it is actually terminated. That was the demand of the Left, that is to say, that it should be denounced. So it is free for the government that is now to change something, and that may also be why the final entry into force has been postponed until 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163410	Thank you. Then it is Joachim B. Olsen for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163412	The rapporteur now outlines some of the practical problems that exist, and these are some things that should be dealt with. If it is the case that in 2014 people live and live together for years and in every way live together, as a married couple does, it is a good principle that such couples, i.e. cohabitants and spouses, are equated, then you have to work towards a system that allows them to be. There may be some practical problems, and then you have to deal with them. I would just like to ask: will the Danish People's Party help to ensure that it is possible to equate spouses with cohabitants?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163456	I would say that marriage is always a good principle. I'm married myself, it's always good to be married, and I can easily recommend people to make that decision. Of course, if you love one another, you also have to be ready to face the challenge of getting married and thus starting a family. However, I do not want to stand up and defend a mutual dependent whom I have spoken against right from the start because it does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163523	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for access to short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left. I should just like to take this opportunity to review the rules for short remarks. The first brief remark has one more minute and the rapporteur has one minute to reply. The second brief remark is one and a half more minutes, and the rapporteur has 1⁄2 minutes to reply. The rapporteur on the Radical Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163544	Thank you. This bill is being tabled as part of the implementation of the 2015 Finance Law Agreement between the Government, the Enhedslisten and the SF. That agreement means the abolition of the mutual dependent requirement for cohabitants in the cash benefits system, and it will then have effect from 2016. However, 2015 will be a transitional year in which the abolition of the mutual dependent has half effect. I think this is quite good in view of the challenges that have been involved in managing this scheme in the municipalities, even when it is added that we have not quite been able to provide the same tax advantages to married people. Finally, it must be seen as part of the negotiations. So that is part of the explanation of why it has become the way it is. In addition, the agreement contains a number of targeted improvements for many of the vulnerable young cash benefit recipients. Radical Left can support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163702	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202163719	It is a very good day in the Folketing today because we are now adopting better rules in the field of cash benefits for co-living cash benefits recipients. As mentioned, SF has agreed with the government and SF as part of the agreement on next year's Finance Act to abolish the so-called mutual liability for cohabitants. This is a very, very important change to the rules because it has been shown that the expansion of the mutual dependent has had a very unfortunate social battle side. From New Year onwards it would be the case, according to the current rules, that many cash benefits recipients would come as low as DKK 0. in income. But even this year, when co-living cash benefit recipients have received half the rate according to the current rules, the change has had a hard and unintended effect on many people. This is due, among other things, to: But back to the real mutual dependants of cohabitants. It has meant that a number of children are caught up because parents and mothers have had to move away from each other for economic reasons. There are also some children in whom the couples have been together, who have come to live in poverty and thus have found it harder to break the social heritage. A new study shows that the chance of e.g. passing the 9th grade examination falls sharply if, as a child, you have just one year in poverty. Secondly, we have seen an extreme need for control with plenty of duvet lift. Questions have also been raised as to whether the legal certainty of the individual has been in order. As the Association for Legal Affairs points out in their response to the hearing, there have been very discretionary decisions, and there has been ambiguity about several criteria, for example in relation to the degree of cohabitation, the form of communities living together, etc. There is a very big difference between how people live their lives in Denmark. Here we have to note that a criterion of whether you are married or not is considerably simpler to manage and presents far fewer challenges compared to the legal certainty of the individual. And married people, as mentioned here in today's debate, also have the advantage of being able to transfer a personal allowance to their spouse. If you become unemployed, the working spouse can be paid more. That option doesn't have poisons. I would like to make a few comments to the Left Party, which, if you are to take their words at face value, will not respond quite clearly to whether, after election, they will reinstate the mutual obligation. This means that the policy of the Left, if you're going to take their words at face value, is on this sheet of paper, because it's blank. I think that behind it lies the fact that the Left wants to introduce mutual commitment. And that is what lies behind the woolly expression that one will take it into consideration. The Left is also making a big deal of the idea of introducing a modern cash aid ceiling, and I have included the policy of the Left on that point. There's a headline that says something about a modern cash aid ceiling. But there is nothing downstairs, because the Left will simply not answer how the ceiling on cash benefits is to be set up. I think it is an absurdity to the electorate that this is the way to watch, and this reminds me so much of the adventure of the emperor's new clothes. It is not the Emperor who wears nothing; it is the Left who wears nothing. And I simply believe that it is a breach of ordinary and fair information to the electorate that we will not give a proper answer to what we are really imagining. That's the same thing as fitting a party you vote for with a blank cheque. However, as I said, my clear view, also from today's debate, is that the Left in the real world will restore mutual commitment. To conclude my speech, I would like to say that there are also a number of other improvements to the draft law that we welcome in the SF and, as it appears, the SF can vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202164205	Thank you to the rapporteur. No colleagues have asked for access to short remarks, and that is why we are moving forward in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202164225	Thank you. After all, it is a very good day today, when we are now going to deal with another legislative proposal that corrects some of the imbalances in the cash benefits reform and which, in cash, helps some people who are having a really difficult financial situation. So we are very happy about that in the Enhedslisten. We are pleased that today's debate has shown a solid majority in favour of abolishing the mutual dependents of co-living cash benefits recipients. Of course, we think it is a pity that this should only happen from 1 January 2016, but of course we take political responsibility for this on an equal footing with the other parties. It is, after all, a question of getting the whole budget debate to take on a higher level of unity, and then it is not in every respect that one can get one's way and carry things out fully. This does not alter the fact that, at the time of the abolition of the mutual dependents here, there is a great victory for the many people who have protested against this unjust legislation from the outset. So I can only express a great deal of thanks to the people and to the organisations that have held onto the criticism all the way through. Without their efforts, it would not have been possible to get this far. It is also very good that the lowest support rates for roommates or married young people under the age of 30 are raised by approx. 2,300 kr. in education assistance and approx. 2,600 on the cash benefits. After all, these young breadwinners are still receiving less help than the breadwinners over the age of 30. It is incomprehensible, so the Enhedslisten's aim is still that the low rates of youth should be abolished and that it is still completely incomprehensible that a government which helped to abolish some of the majority of the VKO's poverty benefits has subsequently introduced some benefits for young people who are on the same level as the start-up aid that we jointly reproached the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, and which we also fortunately then abolished, at the same time we received the majority. These low rates lack any objective justification. Food, clothing and rent are not at half-price for the group that is hit by these very low rates, which, of course, pose a great risk that many young people cannot stay. But on that point too, we are fixing something with this bill. It is a great improvement that all young people under the age of 30 now have the right to receive special support under Section 34 of the Act on Active Social Policy. This means that many young people are now better able to afford to pay rent, and young cash aid recipients have so far been cut off from receiving this aid. The higher housing security for young couples with children is also an improvement, not only for cash benefit recipients, but for anyone with low income, and finally it is good that young people who have an extra room to rent can keep the rental income without any set-off in the aid. This also prevents them from leaving their homes. So all in all, this is a major improvement for the co-living cash aid recipients, some good real improvements for young cash benefit recipients and low-paid people. After all, we are very pleased that the government and the SF have taken note of this point and recognise in practice that some mistakes have been made in the cash aid reform that is now being put right. Perhaps it would have been better to listen to Enhedslisten from the beginning, but better late than never. It certainly turns out that it pays to hold on and fight on. We will also do so with regard to all the other deteriorations caused by the cash aid reform, and we are sure that it will succeed as it turns out that this reform does not meet the beautiful objectives of securing jobs and training for all the many cash aid recipients, but rather it is pulling in the opposite direction and helping to maintain the beneficiaries of cash aid in poverty and helping to increase inequality in this society against objectives. Then we also hope that we can use this debate to conduct a more thorough debate on the whole issue of mutual dependants. As the rapporteur of the Left said, not because I think he will change it, he then pointed out that a number of other groups are also affected by these rules, which are of course very questionable from the point of view of legal certainty, not least because the question of what a marriage-like relationship really is is is completely in the blue. For the further debate, I must say that I am not surprised by the fact that, contrary to Mr Beazley's report, I have to admit that this is not the case. Eigil Andersen, I have heard a very clear message from the Left that they will then do all they can to restore this mutual dependent, whom we are now abolishing, but that it is deeply worrying that the Danish People's Party, which points to the Left as the leader of a new government, will not give a clear guarantee in this Chamber today that they will at least vote against an attempt by the Left to reinstate the mutual dependent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202164731	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for access to short remarks. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202164746	In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is a good principle that when people choose to live together and live together, they will support each other if necessary before they ask the neighbour to support themselves. It is a good, healthy principle that transfers from the public sector and therefore from other taxpayers are only received if they are needed. The alternative to that is, of course, that you have a civil salary, and that is also what has been taken in many areas to introduce. We have both labour market benefits and training benefits, and now we are abolishing the mutual dependent. So a large number of benefits have been introduced which do not depend on each other's income, if you are in a relationship, and we find that extremely problematic, and in this way we think it is a breach of the fundamental good principles on which this society is based, that is to say, that you support yourself before you ask the neighbour to do so. This bill also shows that, unfortunately, the cash aid reform adopted by the government together with the Left, the DF and the Liberal Alliance a year and a half ago has been watered down. We think this is a pity because it was a necessary reform. We also find it strange that a year and a half ago we can argue very strongly and firmly that there should be a mutual dependent for cohabitants, and that we can then stand some time later and argue just as strongly and firmly that there should be no such thing. The then Minister for Employment said then and now I quote her verbatim: Today it is quite common for people to live together without being married. Most are girlfriends before they get married, and some also choose to live together as boyfriends. It's part of modern society. We really think it's a little strange that there is one set of rules when you have paper on each other and another set of rules when you don't have paper on each other. I guess you love each other just the same whether you're married or not. So it was also the government itself that proposed the mutual dependent, it was not something that was negotiated, but it is now being negotiated out with some very different parties. This reduces employment by 1,100 people, and there is no need for this in Denmark. We have 800,000 Danes of working age on transfer income, and that figure needs to be reduced, not increased. It also becomes an unfair discrimination against married and cohabiting couples. If you are married, you can use your wife's or husband's basic allowance in the event of unemployment; it has a value of approx. 42,000 kr. Now, if you are cohabiting, you can get a cash benefit, which has a net value of DKK 75,000. It's a totally unfair attitude, which actually makes it attractive for some people to get divorced in case they're in this situation because they'd get more out of getting divorced than by staying together. It is quite wrong to create incentives for people to break up because it is better worthwhile. I would also like to say that less than 24 hours ago, the Minister for Employment was in a live programme on DR1 and said that he was very concerned about working to improve incentives to take a job. In other words, less than 24 hours later, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which reduces the incentive to be in employment. It is deeply untrustworthy, and it is an expression of a government that says the things they think people would like to hear when it is convenient, as when, for example, there are. is focused on the fact that it is not worthwhile to work, but then you do something else when it pays better. It is not good, it is untrustworthy, and we cannot, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165217	Thank you to the rapporteur. A single colleague has asked for access to short remarks. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165222	After all, it is not a secret that we are looking at these things very differently in this Chamber, and of course the Liberal Alliance rapporteur must also be allowed to look at it differently. But I also think that it could be looked at in a different way. We could look at it in that there is a contract between the individual and society, where you have an obligation to take a job if there is one when you are looking for a job, but on the other hand you also have the right to receive benefits as part of our society and get public assistance when there are not enough jobs. And there aren't large periods of time. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen keeps talking about these 800,000, although he knows very well that this number is more than misleading. During the boom we had virtually no unemployment if we ignored those who were changing from one job to another. But my question is: does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that it is good liberal policy that you as an individual should come with your hat in your hand and ask your girlfriend for some help if you are unemployed yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165326	It is true, very good liberal policy that you help your loved ones, that is, if you are involved in a relationship and have the joys of being in such a voluntary community, you also take care of each other when you have problems. You do that before you ask your neighbor to do it by force, by the way. That is what is not liberal about this: here you are forcing the neighbour to help certain people who could really help themselves, and that is quite uliberal. As I have said, this is an expression of the introduction of a form of civil pay, and we are very opposed to that. So I have to say, this whole 800,000 thing about the fact that in any way the number is misleading is a big bullshit. It's not misleading. It is widely known, has been discussed for decades and has been problematized for decades, that we have far more on transfer income in working age in Denmark than in other highly developed societies. After all, we Danes are not more ill or less able to work or less hardy than Swedes, Norwegians, Dutch or Germans, and yet we have more on transfer income. It is an expression of a system error, nothing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165450	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165453	Well, we can go on with this discussion, and I'm sure we will. For Mr. Joachim B. Olsen wants a community where, if you are ill, you do not have the same right to help as you do today. If you're on SU, you don't have the same right to help as you do today. And that applies if you're pregnant, if you have kids, and I could go on. We have an extensive welfare society, and we may disagree on that, but that is also why we have a number of people on transfer income who in other countries can just take care of themselves. It is a real disagreement, but it does not say that a certain number of people will not take a job, so it is simply a lie. But I can just as a woman be glad that I'm not living in the 1950s, where people like the Liberal Alliance decided that because there I could just be dependent on my husband and not as an individual get the right to some benefits and help from the community if I was unemployed. So I'm just saying thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165542	Now it is in our constitution that you have to support yourself and yours if you have the opportunity. We think that is a good principle. I know that, as a socialist, people are not so fond of constitutions that give rights to people, freedoms to people, but we are now in the Liberal Alliance. And we think it is a good principle that you support yourself and yours before you ask others to do so. Then I have to say that there is a reason why an early retirement reform has been carried out, which the SF was involved in, just as the SF also helped to introduce the mutual dependent. It is because it is quite well known that we have more people on transfer income in Denmark. This is known and that's why we made the early retirement pension reform... that there were too many who had received an early retirement pension. People who could work too had got it, and that is the whole problem. That is why we have more on transfer income in Denmark than they do in other countries; it is because there are people who have received transfer income but who could have worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165634	Thank you! We have some rules of speaking time for them to be observed in such a way at least. I appreciate the commitment, but try to keep the rules on speaking time. I know the next one's gonna do that. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165647	That is true, President. Now I hear the rapporteur say that it says in the constitution that everyone must support themselves and theirs, and that is a good principle. In fact, we agree with that if the opportunity to do so is there, if there is a job, so that you can do it, and if you are not ill, then you really cannot. But I would now like to ask the rapporteur how far that principle will be extended by the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur also think that, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take a decision on the matter? are dependent on your parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165720	What we are discussing here today is whether there should be mutual dependents in the cash benefits system. So, in principle, I think it is a good thing that people provide for each other when they can, and so do many people, but to extend it to support their parents, we do not have any plans. But we are sticking to the principle here, and this proposal is about comparing spouses with cohabitants, not about everything else. And that is where it was first established that it should be. It was argued, as I read out, very well and sensibly for it, and now it is removed again, and we find that deeply problematic. Then I just have to say that the one who talks about taking a job, if you have the opportunity, is like listening to Comic Ali. Only yesterday we witnessed in a programme on Danish Radio that people say no to work for collective pay, even if they receive 2,000 DKK. out of it. Wake up and stop believing that you can do all that with circulars, laws, rules and everything else. It's all about how it's worth taking a job, because then people do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165832	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. It's 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165835	Thank you. After all, it wasn't me who spread this whole discussion out and took the Constitution with me and so on, it was Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. I think it is only natural for the rapporteur to tell us why, if it is such a hell of a principle that everyone should support their own, it should not be extended, so that you also have to support your own parents, such as that. In Germany it is not that far away from the border. Surely that would be an advantage from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's point of view, because that means that we can save billions on what we spend on elderly care and care in this country, and then we can give billions in tax relief, and then everything will go so well. So why not extend the principle to dependent parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165919	Thank you. The rapporteur, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165920	Sir. Finn Sørensen has almost convinced me that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165929	I guess some guys were surprised. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202165935	It is a well-known fact that the introduction of mutual dependents has led to a very extensive control work in which municipal employees register where a particular car is parked, how many times, and who talks to whom and goes in and out of each other's apartments and such things. I have seen that the Liberal Alliance, on a general level, is concerned with the legal certainty of people and that the Liberal Alliance is also opposed to monitoring. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, about this resistance also includes the extensive surveillance that has been carried out in relation to mutual dependants.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170024	Yeah. We certainly don't think that's nice either. It is an expression of what is happening in such an increasing welfare state, where very high benefits are pumped out to people. Then suddenly things are not connected, there are deficits and so on, and instead of changing the basic structures that create these deficits, you start with controls and reports and everything else. This is not something that liberals like. We would like to acknowledge that there have been some problems in the actual implementation of the mutual dependent, but we just do not believe that the answer is to remove it. Then we have to look at whether we can have more objective rules, more transparent rules. After all, we would have preferred to have just said that there is a mutual dependent, and then couples living together have the right to take advantage of each other's basic allowance, just as married couples have also been able to reduce employment and everything else, because that is what they say it will. But we have no objection to that, because it would be an expression of living off one's own money and not the money of others, and if it means that people choose to work a little less then it is no problem that people do it, because it is for their own money. That's what you should have done. I think that would have cost about 200 million. kr., and we would have liked to sacrifice it to equate the couples and couples together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170141	Thank you. Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170144	The Liberal Alliance supports the interdependence, regrettably. But in doing so, the Liberal Alliance also supports the enormous monitoring apparatus and recording equipment that has been set up. It simply does not add up. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that it is reasonable for citizens to be in deep doubt as to what rules apply to one and that the administration is also different from the municipality to the municipality and the municipalities also recognise that they have difficulty in managing it? Is it reasonable legal certainty that I, as a citizen, do not know what rules apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170224	No, that's not fair legal certainty. It's not. But that is not an argument for abolishing the mutual dependent. This is an argument for looking at how to organise the mutual dependent, so that it is more transparent, and for setting up safeguards and making the rules clear, so that they are not misunderstood. That's what you do. After all, we are talking about legislation that has not even been fully implemented yet. After all, it has happened in the past that legislation has been made and then one has had to realise that one had to adjust it or look at how it was implemented and so on. But that does not mean that the times when there have been some practical problems with some legislation, you have simply abolished legislation, as you do here, when the legislation is based on a healthy principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170308	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for access to short remarks, and that is why we move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170321	It is a proposal that draws in exactly the opposite direction to what Danish society needs. This helps to undermine the contract we have in society that you do something before you receive anything, and then it is also an economic burden, while keeping people out of the labour market. So there's really nothing good to say about this proposal: it's going in the whole, completely wrong direction. It is, of course, part of the Red Finance Act, and it is a good example of how the government has completely shelved the logic of the financial law negotiations. This agreement makes Denmark poorer, it gives less growth and less welfare. Unfortunately, there are already many people in this country for whom it is not worthwhile to work, and that group is expanding the government with the proposal here. It is to the detriment of society and, above all, to the detriment of those for whom it is no longer worth taking a job and who are most dependent on the help of society. They are almost forced financially to stay on passive support instead of going out and actively participating. The mutual dependents, which we otherwise agreed with the government, are now being abolished. In other words, it will not be quite immediately, because it will take a transitional year until the end of the year, so in fact, roommates will still be a little dependent on each other in the coming year. It is as if the government does not quite dare stand by their proposals anyway. We understand this from Conservatives, because the reality of today's Denmark is that families live together in a lot of different ways. Plenty of roommates regard themselves as a family, even though they are not married, and that the government also regards the non-married as family we know from another proposal that is under consideration here in the Folketing. In fact, the government wants to give roommate single couples the opportunity to adopt together. They will, because these people, like married couples, consider themselves a family and are fully able to take care of a child together. But while the government believes that even if you are single, you can adopt and take care of a child, the government, along with the left, does not think that you can take care of each other. You can take care of an adopted child, but you can't take care of your girlfriend or partner when you live together. It is quite strange, and it is an outrageous form of argument. Also the higher housing security for couples under 30 years of age and the re-establishment of special support now in extended form will really be doing people a good old-fashioned disservice. Both will mean that for more people it will pay less to take a job, and thus more people risk hanging on to public support for longer periods of time. We would rather maintain the possibility of temporary rent aid, which the government unfortunately abolishes with this proposal. The temporary help was just an opportunity to get through between jobs, or until a more suitable accommodation was found • help for self-help and therefore much more constructive. There are also some small points of light in the proposal. As far as we are concerned, it makes sense that you do not lose your services because you have a logger who pays rent. The reason why you have a lodger may well be that you recognize that you have an excessive dwelling and therefore rent some of it out and thus cover some of the rent in that way. At the same time, we welcome the fact that we are trying to solve the problem for those in whom a reduction in the amount of available funds means that one party in cash or education has been given work. In other words, all in all, we cannot support this proposal at all. It's going in the wrong direction. It costs labour; it costs growth; it costs wealth. So it becomes the thumb down and a no on the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170706	Thank you to the rapporteur. No colleagues have asked for access to short remarks, so we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170719	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for a very good debate, a lively, committed debate, and then, of course, I would like to thank them a little more warmly because they support this bill. So there is such a modulation in relation to it. The debate has had a great deal to do with mutual dependents, and there is nothing to say about that, because that is one of the great things that lies in the draft law here. What is to say about this is that it is part of a financial law agreement that I thought was a good financial law agreement, and it is the case with agreements that there are different wishes and opinions and expectations, and we have made an agreement with our contractual partners, which we are actually happy about. The fact that there are a number of other improvements in the whole area of cash aid in the legislative proposal itself is, in fact, very welcome, and this shows that the government has helped to ensure over the years that there is a proper, stable economic policy that will enable us to make the improvements that are here as well. I think that is quite a good thing, and I look forward to the further work of the committee and will say to the parliamentary committee that I will of course help to respond quickly and accurately to any questions that may be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170835	Thank you. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202170841	I think it is rather nice that the Minister for Employment is saying that long-term economic development has been ensured, which makes it possible to afford these things. Well, the truth is that this proposal reduces employment by 1,100 people. It has to be kept up against the fact that the government is not in line with its own objectives of increasing employment. And since I am not aware of the fact that legislative proposals are being tabled which can close the gap of several thousand who are lacking in increasing the workforce in order to achieve the government's objectives, it is actually something strange to say that a policy has been adopted which has made this possible. That's one thing. The second is that it is strange that one-and-a-half years ago it was argued that there should be a mutual dependent because it was said that the dependency system should follow the development of society, and many people choose to live together for many years, live together completely, as they do when they are married and therefore it is also reasonable, of course, to support each other. Now you turn on a plate. Frankly, isn't it mostly related to the fact that there is an upcoming election, which is why you have to keep good friends with the left and preferably also sprinkle some presents to those you think are your core voters, in the last Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171004	Yes, it is true that there is an imminent election and time must be spent on being very clear and principled. I really would like to thank Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who made it clear a few minutes ago what the vision for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and thus the Liberal Alliance are. And it is that when it comes to the whole area of the elderly, it must be saved away. I wasn't quite sure if it was just the care, sir. Joachim B. Olsen wanted to save away, or whether it was also the retirement pension. But I guess we'll find out when we get into that campaign. It's clear that when you have the angle of how this society should look, there's a big disclaimer in relation to what the Social Democracy and Government stand for. In relation to the employment effect, may I say that the minus here is about approx. One thousand, of course, must be kept up against the fact that the policy pursued by the government means that there is an additional employment effect of 30.000 by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171051	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, second brief remark, 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171054	There was, however, a great deal that the Minister for Employment could derive from what I have said on the platform. But the Minister for Employment was also talking to his officials, so it's okay if the Minister for Employment didn't listen properly. I would really just like to hear what it is that makes it possible to put forward a proposal which dealt with mutual dependants a year and a half ago and could argue why it was sensible, and now a Finance Act before an election completely changes its attitude to it and no longer considers it important.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171129	Now it is fortunate that when it comes to the Folketing, things are written literally, but leave it alone. I just wanted to say that I said at the outset that I am happy with this financial law. It is evidence that during the period that has been, the government has ensured stability in the Danish economy, and that is why we have been able to create a financial law that focuses on the sick, on children, on the elderly and also on these social areas. As Minister for Employment, I am quite happy with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171158	The next colleague and the last person who has asked for access to short remarks for the time being is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171205	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Employment if it is not true that with the current rules in the cash assistance system, and when it comes to mutual dependants, this means that a roommate, where one has a job and the other gets some kind of cash assistance, depending on the roommate's income, has at least the equivalent of DKr 28 000. on a monthly basis, if they have two children.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171247	Excuse me, sir. Hans Andersen, but it is not actually an expression of malicious will when I dare not answer a hundred percent yes or no to that question. But it is because I have just sent a further statement to the Danish Parliament about the various rates in the cash benefits. And I know that if you, as a minister, get to say something wrong from the Parliament's platform, there will be a Detector on you. So I apologize to Mr. Hans Andersen, but I just don't want to get involved in saying something wrong. But, of course, I would very, very much like to answer that question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171321	Sir. Hans Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171324	Well, I'm asking because the right number is about. 28,000 kroner. But the Minister may come back with an answer to that, because that is the figure that the former Minister for Employment said every time that you have to remember when you talk about mutual dependants that then the family with two children has the equivalent of DKK 28,000. on a monthly basis. And then the question is: is it reasonable, or is it not reasonable? Is that the level we want? That is at least the level we have so far wanted and where we have said that it is the reasonable level if you do not have any other income. And I ask the Minister for Employment? Is that fair, or is that not fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171410	Even with the help of papers from good colleagues, I shall not go into it, and I would like to maintain my initial answer. Because if there is something that I respect at least, it is that when you discuss specific figures and put them forward as ministers, you have to be sure that they are right. That is why, as I said, I shall ensure that I reply quickly and precisely to the questions that the committee may have, and then we can take the rather more fundamental debate there. I hope it's okay that that's the way I answer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171440	Thank you. No more colleagues have asked for access to short remarks. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak on this matter at all, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171458	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202171518	Thank you. When the Minister for Finance presented the government's draft Finance Act last year, the Minister for Finance thought it was going to the brink. The government operated with a deficit of 2.9 per cent, and that was as far as the Minister of Finance thought it was justifiable to go last year. When the Minister for Finance presented the government's financial bill this year, yes, a deficit of 3.0 per cent was planned. In other words, the edge had moved further out so that what would be irresponsible last year was responsible this year. There was also criticism from many economists of the government's financial bill, compared to that it went more to the edge than well was. And it was not long before we received an assessment from the economic wise men, and there was the assessment of the government's financial bill that it would end up with a deficit of 3.6%, that is, above the 3% ceiling. See, the government had chosen to listen to that, but it was striking that it was not aware of it a month and a half earlier. However, this led the government, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, to make the so-called pension package, and this is precisely the package we are now going to deal with a pension package which brings forward the taxation of the Danish pension savings. This applies first and foremost to what we are already aware of, namely that there is an opportunity to pay the tax on your capital pension right now, against the fact that capital pensions are not taxed when you take them out when you retire. You get a small discount on this, and this has meant that many have brought forward taxation and that money has been put in the treasury, which has ensured that the government deficit has not broken with the 3%. The government is now proposing to extend for a further 1 year, and it is also proposing to include the money included in the wage-earners' Animal Time Fund and to provide a 21⁄2% discount. And that, in total, gives a revenue of 15 billion. kr., the government assesses. It is really, really, very much money, but it has to be said that it is in this way to abuse the revenue which should otherwise have come in the future and which should otherwise have helped to ensure that the finance laws were available in the years to come. And it can be said that if the government had chosen to pursue a different policy, yes, perhaps it would not have been necessary to end up in this situation; if the government had pursued a more offensive growth agenda, yes, then the prospects for the Danish economy and the prospects for the size of the deficit on public finances could have looked quite different. But that is not the situation. These are not the conditions that we face in Denmark, and it has to be said that the Finance Act that the government made together with SF and Enhedslisten is completely devoid of growth initiatives. There is not one initiative that helps to move Denmark forward, and that, of course, presents some challenges. And it has to be said that this is an act of neglect: having listened to good proposals from among others. Left, we had certainly and very likely been in a situation where Danish economy had looked more robust. But on the Left side, I have to say that we are not interested in Denmark getting an EU recommendation, so we on the Left support the proposal to ensure that we stay within the common rules of the game agreed in the European Union, but also because it provides a tax rebate that allows Danes to have their own money free of taxation, that is, a little cheaper. It can of course be said that this is a strange kind of zigzag course that the government is conducting. I think it was with the government's first Finance Act that the taxation of the Danes' pension savings was increased by the so-called PAL tax, and that is not exactly a way to promote confidence in saving. A little sledgehammering, yes, but here, after all, there is talk of taxpayers being given a small rebate, and this helps to ensure that the budgets that lie are kept within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172002	Thank you. I have, for the time being, a single colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172009	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur of the Left was told that with the pension package we will be missing some money that we could have spent on consumption later. After all, the intention of the government is to pay off debts and not spend money on consumption. Is that the Left's intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172035	Now you can say that it is a little special to say that it is a question of paying off debts. It is a question of reducing a deficit and not starting up more debt. I have to say that I have such great confidence in the radical rapporteur that I am quite sure that the radical rapporteur would not have supported this proposal if it were not only necessary for liquidity reasons. That's kind of what I'm worried about. After all, we must be careful not to give good ideas to this government, but now there are only the installment pension funds which the government has not yet taken on board, and then there are probably only the gold reserves in the National Bank. I have to say that we need to take a relatively violent action to keep the budget law within the framework. This contrasts somewhat with the fact that the government talks about change of mood and everything else when you have to squander the reserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172133	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Astrid Krag, on behalf of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172143	Thank you. It is quite right, as the rapporteur from the Left has said here in the House, that the draft law we are discussing now is the implementation of the pension package agreed by the government with the SF and the Enhedslisten. Overall, we propose to extend the existing tax rebate of 2.7 percentage points for the conversion of capital pensions or additional one-off benefits to an undeductible old-age saving by 1 year to 2015. At the same time, we are proposing a 2.5 percentage point reduction in the tax on payments made by the Employees' Animal Time Fund. This leads to an improvement in the general government balance, which we could also hear confirmed in the exchange here that we intend to use to reduce public debt. So the goal of the pension package here is to kill two birds with one stone. Firstly, we are giving people with a capital pension or savings in the Dyrebejdernes Dyreidsfond the opportunity to have a tax rebate, and secondly, the pension package gives us as a society the assurance that we do not break with the requirements of the EU's so-called Stability and Growth Pact now that, unfortunately, there is an agreement on this, and we can certainly agree on this, is renewed unrest on Europe's economy. A new EU recommendation will create insecurity about the Danish economy. We would very much like to prevent that. Therefore, the pension package can also be said to be timely care. Because with the pension package here, we are taking care to minimise the risk that Denmark will receive a new recommendation from the European Union that we should reduce the deficit on the general government balance. In other words, we are putting air on the EU's limit to the level of deficit that EU countries must have under the EU's Stability and Growth Pact. We saw what insecurity it created when the reins were released in the '00s when the economy was allowed to go its wrong way and Denmark ran right into a recommendation from the EU. We'll stay out of this kind of experiment. We stick to the fact that security about the economy creates security about jobs and about the private economy, and that is what our pension package is all about. When you save up for your life as a pensioner, you take on a great responsibility. That is why, of course, all the details that are being affected by the pension package must also be taken into account here. It is very natural that a number of questions of a more technical nature are raised in the hearings and I would like to say very clearly that I am very much looking forward to having those questions answered in a reassuring and thorough manner in the committee's work, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister and the Ministry are quite ready for that. In addition to the more technical issues raised in the consultation answers, there are also some who raise the question, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, of whether the pension package is now fiscally irresponsible, because the money is going to be lacking so I think that almost the rapporteur of the Left said so when we move forward the payment of deferred taxes. The answer to that question is very brief: no, it is not irresponsible. Now we have struggled hard and laboriously and got the Danish economy out of the EU recommendation that we had received. It is not a morass that we want to bring back Danish economy. By using the improvements made by the pension package to reduce public debt, we are making it responsible for minimising the risk that Denmark will again have to face a situation where we get a recommendation. It has to be said that in this way this is a responsible proposal, which we are confident to vote for, and then we look forward very much to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172509	Thank you. There is one person who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172515	Mrs Astrid Krag says that we need to get the money from pension savers to ensure that we do not exceed the 3% deficit threshold that the European Union is setting for us. Another way to do that was not to spend so much money. I remember when this government came in, it was said that a craftsman's offer was taken over; Danish economy was a craftsman's offer. At that time, the public sector only had a deficit of just over 30 billion. kr. The Finance Act presented by the Government for 2015 contains a budgeted deficit of 60 billion. kr., and then you even have to pull 15 billion. kr. This is because we are afraid that it will be even greater than 60 billion. kr. How about if you didn't spend that much money? I would like to ask Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172603	I always find it exciting to have questions from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, because you can actually have a real discussion. I am aware of many of the proposals made by the Liberal Alliance on how to spend less money on our common welfare model. It has been important for the government to create a finance law where we can support growth, where we can support employment, and where we can also afford to invest in some of the things that make it a really safe and nice country to live in. This is true, for example. improved cancer treatment, proper standards in the day care centres where our children are cared for, so that we can leave in the morning as safe parents and take care of our work and be decent and good labour, and a home care card to name some of the very good things we actually invest in with the Finance Act. It is true that we could not do that. It is also true that we will have to cut some of those things if we are to be able to make financial legislation under the zero-growth regime, which the Left will be in charge of, and I know that the Liberal Alliance will have even less growth. So, yes, it is true, it is a political priority, what you want to use the Finance Act for, but for the government it has been important to create a Finance Act that simultaneously supports growth and employment and secures investment in places in our welfare societies where it is well needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172710	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172713	After all, there is not a single public overuse which one cannot say serves a good purpose. All the money spent is spent mostly on things that are good. So that is not an argument for spending much more money than you have, because then it had no end. Then you'd have to spend twice as much money as you got in the treasury if you could always just say that it's good. There is another consideration, of course, which is called financial responsibility. Things need to be straightened out so you don't owe the next generation. The government is not in control of things here, and then the government is doing it, taking in some pension money that we should have spent later, and spending it now, and then they are missing later.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172751	This is precisely a government that takes due care and manages things. You don't have to have a very long memory to remember who it was that led Denmark directly into the recommendation that we have just fought our way out of. It was the bourgeois parties of the '00s who did it and can take credit for it. All the money that is spent is good, says Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, I think I can find some quotes where Mr. Ole Birk Olesen believes the opposite, and I would also like to say that I myself have been involved in negotiating economic agreements where we expect regions and municipalities to be able to streamline and debureaucratise, so perhaps I do not think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen totally thinks if he thinks about it. But of course things need to be sorted out, and of course there must be funding, and with this bill we ensure that Denmark is much better equipped for unforeseen things that might otherwise mean that we would end up with a recommendation again, and we should not go into that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172838	Thank you. The next and provisional last person who has asked for access to a brief remark is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172844	One gets a little frustrated and upset about the political debate when one hears the interpretation of what things were like under the previous government and has to listen to a social democrat who says that it was irresponsible and that the previous government spent far too much money when the reality is that the message that under the previous government sounded from the Social Democracy and the SF every year was: spend more money. It was eternal and always the song down here in the Assembly Hall. I believe that prime ministers and finance ministers have been told that the minimal state was now introduced with next year's financial law, the social mass grave was real and there was no more money left for public welfare. Now we have to hear the opposite. I just need confirmation that there did not seem to have been any strenuous action by the Social Democrats and the SF earlier. I would just like to say that when the government talks about a precautionary principle, does the rapporteur think that compliance with the precautionary principle means that revenue that would otherwise have fallen over the next few years has to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202172955	Well, first of all, I would be sorry if, in the darkest month of the year, I had the Left's tax rapporteur to be both frustrated and upset. You have to take this kind of thing very seriously if you start to feel it. But joke aside. I would just like to say that I believe that the Left's tax rapporteur can go back and find incredibly many concrete places where you will be able to hear politicians from the Social Democratic Party criticize, for example. the tax reforms that were carried out, which were either underfunded very far in the future or, indeed, unfunded, and which helped to carry firewood at a time when the economy was roaring out. If the rapporteur is unable to find that kind of thing himself, I might offer to help with it. Then I would say that I think this is exactly what I said in my speech, namely to take due care. There must be security about our economy. That is what is a prerequisite for both jobs and security in the private economy. We'll make sure of that with this bill. I would also like to sign off on the fact that the Left is going to support it otherwise you might also have some problems in making the calculation stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173102	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173106	But it's just interesting to hear this song about financial responsibility when you look at the results that the government has delivered and the financial laws that the government has been responsible for, and when you see how much comes from disposable income. It has to be said that if the government had not made an advance on the taxation of pension funds, we would have had an even greater deficit and we would have had an even greater debt. There is just a long way to go from the fine words and to the reality, but I am quite sure that others are fully aware of that and that the high-sung precautionary principle from the government is something you talk about, but not something you deliver on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173151	If this is the way the rapporteur of the Left tried to draw a picture of this in his speech as rapporteur, namely that here we go out and burn money because we are having a huge red wine or champagne party, tax cuts that are not affordable or whatever it should be, one might say that there was something about the talk. But the rapporteur of the Left also had to confirm Mr. Nadeem Farooq • Radical Left tax rapporteur in that this is not money that we are running out and spending. The anticipated improvement in the public balance, which this bill ensures for us when it is adopted, is being used solely to pay off public debt. I am very sorry if it makes the rapporteur of the Left so sad that it is actually the current government that has got Denmark out of the EU recommendation we had received. We have pursued an economically responsible policy and have made sure that if we were to get back into the situation that we are not keeping the reins, there will be a completely different way of understanding that the Danish economy cannot get out of hand in the way we saw in the thundering and thundering 00s.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173248	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173256	Thank you. After all, this is about a proposal to advance the taxation of capital pensions, a proposal which we have dealt with twice in the past, and we in the Danish People's Party both said no to the advance. And that's because this is just an advance on pension tax, that is to say, an advance on liquidity, a revenue call it what you want to get that you would otherwise get in a lot of years. And in the case of the Employees' Animal Time Fund it may be in a few years' time. But we really think this is a bad idea, because this money is needed later. It can be said that this is an advance which undermines the long-term financing of the welfare society. In short, it is like peeing in your pants... the money is warming up a lot now that you have an EU recommendation hanging over your head, but they are missing later when you need it when people leave the labour market. And that is basically a bad way of financing our society. After all, we think that the current pension system is very good and that those who have established it have been very forward-looking by doing it in the way that taxation falls when you stop being active and are out of the labour market. And here there are so often extra public expenditures, because then you have to go to a retirement pension and so on. We find it regrettable that, in order to avoid an EU recommendation, we should opt for the kind of budgetary technical measures that will simply shift funding from later to now. This seems to us to be an irresponsible way of finding one-off funding. The same actually applies to the second part of the proposal on the wage-earners' Animal Time Fund, where the levy is also reduced. You get a discount of 21⁄2%, but again we think it's a bad way to finance a finance bill. It's the same bad principle as before. Basically, we do not think this is an appropriate way of doing so, and therefore we cannot support it. However, I would like to say that I can understand those individuals who, of course, will be happy to have a tax rebate of 2.7 per cent in the case of capital pensions, or 21⁄2 per cent in the case of the Employees' Animal Time Fund. But when you look at it at such a general level, from a social point of view, it is not a good method to finance a financial law, so we cannot support this proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173520	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173526	After all, we fully agree that the European Union should not govern economic policy in Denmark with the various strange rules they have built up and sanctions, and what do I know? But now they're there. It's a fact of life that those EU sanctions are there. So does the Danish People's Party think that we should just take on a new set of sanctions? Or where should we have saved to avoid getting close to the EU's borders on what we must have of deficits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173606	In any case, we think it is quite clear that it is a bad idea to simply push forward taxation, so taking an income that should have come out in the future and then saying that it is coming now. That doesn't solve a problem. Then you just need the money at the time. So that should have been dealt with in the Finance Act in another way, either by spending less money, or by saying that you would then have a bigger deficit, and then you should have taken the fight with the European Union. One of them should have been done. At any rate, I think that this is a bad way of gambling with our pension system, where, many decades ago, you were forward-looking when you established it and made it so that you got tax payments at the time when you actually needed your income too. I think this is a really bad way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173642	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173645	Now I just think we need a proper answer. In other words, should we do this in order to avoid the sanctions that were the result of the previous government supported by the Danish People's Party, or should we be spared? And if savings are to be made, where should savings be made? You have to give an answer to that. You can't just say that you think it's a really bad idea. You have to have an idea of what you should have done, and that's kind of just what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173719	So I do not think it is the responsibility of the Danish People's Party to explain what else should be done in financial law negotiations where we were not called. I think it is the parties that have concluded the financial law agreement that are responsible for financing it in a very inappropriate way and in a very irresponsible way. This is just gonna leave the bill in the children's room in 20 or 30 years, 'cause it's gonna be the kids who're gonna be funding this when the money's missing. I really think it is a pity that we are now trying to say that it must then be those parties that are not included in the financial regulation that should then give funding. So you must be responsible for cleaning this up yourself, that is, how you have now chosen to use future revenue already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173759	Thank you. What is crucial is that Danish economic policy is effective and well organised. In addition, it is important that the current government continues to exercise due diligence and, at the same time, the government must also be able to stimulate growth and employment. When I talk about due diligence, I think it is important that we comply with EU requirements and that we constantly ensure that recommendations from the European Union are avoided. It's in that light that we need to see this pension package that this bill is about. The purpose of the pension package is to ensure that we can also support growth and employment in the future, while reducing the risk of Denmark receiving an EU recommendation to reduce the government deficit. So, overall, Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173908	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173917	I shall hear the radical rapporteur on whether this principle of pension savings and pension taxation in Denmark is a principle supported by the Radical Left. The principle is that pension billions will come to taxation when people have grown old, because it is wise that that money will come into the treasury when we need it for elderly care, hospital care, etc. etc., which is associated with people getting old.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173954	Yeah, that's a good principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202173957	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174000	But that is not good enough for it to be maintained in the 2015 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174006	This is a good principle, but the pension system is not chiseled in granite in the sense that it is not also included in the overall economy and economic policy as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174041	The bill is the implementation of the pension package from October 2014, of which SF is part. The one-year extension of the existing tax rebate of 2.7 percentage points and a 2.5 percentage point reduction in the tax on payments from the Dyrestidfond of employees ensure that Denmark does not exceed the EU's 3% government deficit limit. of GDP. With the intervention, we will generate an additional revenue of just under 15 billion. kr. in 2015. The proposal thus helps to ensure that we can continue to support growth and employment in Denmark without compromising a responsible economic policy. As the agreement on next year's Finance Act makes clear, we support precisely the growth-oriented initiatives, while at the same time there is room to invest in improving our common welfare. The SF thus supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174134	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has signed up for a brief remark. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174149	Let me just continue the debate from before with the Danish People's Party. I think it is too easy just to go up here and point the finger at others about what we are doing to ensure that, on the one hand, we keep clear of the EU's demand for Denmark's deficit which we are totally against, but which is a reality supported by almost all parties in the Danish Parliament, except the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, and I do not remember whether the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of it a few times, it has the Danish People's Party safely and then on the other hand it finds a solution here to make a responsible policy that ensures money for the welfare and for improvements in the health of the elderly, and thus by avoiding going into carambola with the EU's demands. I think it's too easy just to go up and say that you're against that. I think we need to have a clear opinion on what should have happened. Then I would say that Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to the private pension savings we have in Denmark, which means that you have either what you call the right of exception or the right to deduct when you deposit money into a pension scheme. And the richer you are, the more money you can draw from and avoid getting into taxation before somewhere far in the future. We always thought it was a really bad system. I don't remember what the tax minister might remember the numbers... but I think it's something like 3,000 billion. kr., which is now in pension forms; at least it is an unbelievable amount. And about half of that money maybe barely half today with the lower taxes from the wealthy have then been deferred taxes. In other words, in Denmark we actually have a huge debt in pension assets, which are taxes that will eventually have to be paid. On the other hand, we have a sovereign debt, we are paying interest on the debt, fortunately not very much, but we are paying interest on it. And then we have these EU recommendations that are constantly hanging as an axe over the Danish economy. If you simply changed the way in which pension savings are made, pensioners would not suffer when they were due to retire. Then we would simply avoid having a huge national debt and an even greater debt in the pension funds, where it is the pension funds that decide what all that money is to be spent on, instead of collectively deciding how the social wealth that is • because it is a social wealth that lies in the pension funds • could be used most sensibly. So we are against the system, and that is why, of course, we also support the fact that some of the taxation that has to be paid at some point is being brought forward to us as much as possible even before what has been proposed here, and also preferably without giving a large tax rebate. Because that's what happens: you save a lot of money in taxes if you use this opportunity that opens up with this bill. Nevertheless, we think it is a good idea, but in reality we should simply abolish some of these tax incentives and ensure that there is better order in the public economy. But so, Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174512	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174520	Sir. Frank Aaen said at the beginning of his speech that this exercise in bringing forward the tax on capital pensions was to secure funding for a number of measures such as: the elderly and health, etc. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Frank Aaen can confirm that's what the money's gone to. This is a little in contrast to what the radical rapporteur tried to say, namely that this money is going to pay off debts. So we cannot use the money both to finance a number of measures and at the same time use it to pay off debts. So what's the truth about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174549	There are times when two things can be true at the same time. It happens sometimes. Here it helps to ensure a room for manoeuvre in making finance laws for e.g.: to promote health and the elderly, better care for children, better action for the climate and the environment. There is money for this in the Finance Act, and at the same time so much money comes in with this bill that, at the same time, public debt can be reduced. So I think it has to be said that both are achieved by this proposal, if you vote in favour of it of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174622	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174625	But if it wasn't true that if you hadn't done this exercise like we do with this bill, you wouldn't have gotten 15 billion. kr. In the box? And you don't get the 15 billion. kr. In the box, there is not enough money for all the measures you make on the Finance Act, but this is a direct financing measure in order to be able to provide all the good gifts you now bring with the Finance Act. And if what I assume in my question is now correct, you cannot say that you just pay the 100 per cent. of the debt. Both things can't be right. One cannot say that we are only using this to pay off the debt, so we have the money to spend later when people retire and at the same time say that it is going to fund a lot of action with now. So both things cannot be correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174701	Now I didn't say 100 percent. I said a little to one and a little to the other. That was my statement. And now you have to be careful what's good for the future. In reality, better welfare, better care for the elderly, better health care and better action for the environment and climate are investments in the future. In fact, I think it is much better for society that we invest in welfare and the environment and climate. It is a much better investment, even if you count on a percentage return. There are much higher percentages than if you leave the money in pension forms that are private. So I believe that it is correct on all keys, and I simply do not understand that the Danish People's Party cannot endorse it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174747	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in the series of speeches is Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202174754	The reason we're dealing with this bill is because the government has no control over its finances. It's not something I'm saying, but it's something the government admits. The government fears that the deficit on public finances will be greater than the 60 billion. kr., which the government budgets with in its Finance Act for 2015. And if the deficit is just 1 billion. kr. greater than the 60 billion. kr., then the government risks getting a recommendation from the EU that our deficit exceeds 3%. of GDP. This can have serious consequences for the Danish economy. The outside world and the financial markets lose confidence that Denmark is a country that always complies with EU rules, thereby losing confidence in the Danish economy at all. Therefore, the government has decided to extend a discount for the payment and conversion of the capital pension. It is a reduction of 2.7 percentage points on the tax that is on the payout and the government will introduce a new rebate of 2.5%. on the disbursements of money from the wage-earners' Animal Time Fund. In this way, the expectation is that when these two discounts apply only in 2015 and not in 2016 and 2017, there will be a lot of people who prefer to have their pension money paid out in 2015. And then there will be more money for taxation, and that will give 15 billion. kr. more in the treasury, so that the government can exceed its budget deficit by 15 billion. kr. without getting into trouble with EU rules. We do not support that. We do not support the fact that the government can use money in this way, which should have been for taxation later on, where we need the money, because more Danes are getting older and need elderly care and health care. The government is already taking that money now and spending it on financing an overuse on its financial law. It should be borne in mind that this government came into existence in 2011. There it took over a public finance deficit of 37 billion. kr. The government then described this as a craftsman's offer. The economy was a artisan offer when the government took over the economy with a deficit of 37 billion. kr. in public finances. Now the economy is doing much better, says the government, because it has pursued such an excellent policy that things are going so much better. Yet it is budgeting with a deficit in 2015 of 60 billion. kr. kr., but 60 billion. kr., which is even expected to be larger than the 60 billion. kr., because government forecasts for growth in the economy and oil prices etc. It's not connected. And that's why it needs the 15 billion. kr. More. It doesn't add up for this government. The government's economic policy is kaput. But under Danish pension savers we can withdraw their pension to a lower tax than they would otherwise be able to do. We think that the taxes in Denmark are too high, including the taxes on the pension savings that the Danes would like to withdraw. That is why we find it very, very difficult to say no to giving them a discount. We do not like that rebate leading to the government getting some more money with which it can be financed, but we like the Danes getting the discount. That is why we have to weigh up the two conflicting considerations, and we end up saying that we support the bill for the sake of the Danes, although we are very inclined to be against it, because we do not, under the government, have to be allowed to finance its overspend with money that it takes out of future pension payments. But summa summarum, we may have to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175216	It did not give rise to any brief comments. Then the last speaker is in line, sir. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175226	The starting point of the proposal is, after all, a declaration of failure on the part of the government's economic policy. It is almost fictitious to bring some money into the box to meet convergence requirements, to finance an excessively large welfare system and to give some good gifts to friends in the Enhedslisten and SF, and then to do so, to use loosely the funding of the future society. This was already done when additional taxes and taxes were introduced for 5-6 billion. kr. in November, December, January of the turn of the year between 2011 and 2012, when the Finance Act was to be drawn up for 2012. One of the elements of the tax and tax increases of 5-6 billion. kr., depending on whether we brought the registration fee or not, was an increase in the PAL tax. This means simply increasing the tax on pension savings. This is quite the wrong way to go: we must help to reward and promote that our society saves up to old age and saves up for its own pension so that society does not suffer. Nevertheless, the government raised the PAL tax and made it less attractive to save, and so it started already there to lay the foundations for more people to be supported by the public when they retire. Well, this is gonna lead to that, too. Now you can withdraw the money earlier from your capital pension and also from some of LD's age savings and then get the small premium on top of the 21⁄2%. We are in the same dilemma as my friends in LA have been. On the one hand, we see the proposal here a bit as peeing in your pants. It is going to be just hot now in 2015 as the Finance Act applies to where you have some money to spend, too much money, compared to what you really should have, but then it gets very cold in a few years' time when you should have used the tax on these funds. So it's the wrong way to go on a macro-economic policy. On the other hand, the starting point is the individual citizen, and the individual citizen is given the opportunity to raise his own savings with a reasonable gain, and everything else on the bottom line will benefit the individual Dane. In view of the fact that we legislate here in the Danish Parliament for the Danes, for the individual, and we cannot really legislate on the irresponsible, irresponsible economic policy of the government, although we would like to, we end up in the Conservative People's Party voting in favour of the government's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the tax minister for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175530	Thank you for that, President. First of all, thank you for the predominantly positive reception of the proposal. There were just some who had to go through some inter-accounts, and the various rapporteurs have also explained very carefully how this has been achieved. As you know, the bill is an expression of the understanding of a pension package that the government has achieved with the SF and the Enhedslisten. The aim is to ensure that we can continue to support growth and employment while reducing the risk that Denmark might receive a new EU recommendation to reduce a government deficit. It is essential for the government to pursue a responsible economic policy that meets the demands of us, including from the European Union and our own budget law. A new recommendation from the EU would lead to unrest about the Danish economy. This bill strengthens the general government balance in the short and medium term, thereby leaving an appropriate margin for the EU's government deficit threshold in the EU's Stability and Growth Pact. Furthermore, we have provided that the improvement in the public balance resulting from the legislative proposal is used solely to reduce public debt. It is responsible and ensures a healthy public economy, even in the longer term. I do not think it should be forgotten that the proposal can in fact also be seen as an economic hand-out to account holders in the Animal Time Fund of the Employees. The tax rebate is 2.5%. of the value of the savings. For the average LD savings of DKK 85,000, this corresponds to a tax rebate of more than DKK 2,000. As far as specific technical questions are concerned, we can, of course, take them in the course of the committee's deliberations. In any case, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and look forward to a constructive committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175730	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175737	The 15 billion. kr., who comes in with this bill, according to the tax minister alone, is going to be used to reduce public debt. However, the public debt that it has to reduce is, of course, the public debt that is being created because there is an overuse in the Finance Act for 2015. I mean, you start a debt to finance a consumption, and then you use this money from the pension billions to pay off the debt. But that is the same as taking the money and using it for consumption. Doesn't the Minister of Taxation agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175821	What we are doing is creating the necessary margin so that we do not find ourselves in the situation that we will fall into an EU recommendation if there are economic conditions that may move a little bit uncertain. It is clear that with the world around us, there can be single elements that can influence in a given direction, and by this method we will have the necessary margin of safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175851	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175854	Well, I guess we agree that the government is budgeting with a deficit in its Finance Act 2015 of 60 billion. kr. Then there are a number of very optimistic assumptions on the basis of which the government no longer believes. It no longer believes in the optimistic assumptions, so it needs 15 billion. kr. More. But it is, after all, about the government having public expenditure of at least 60 billion in its financial law for 2015. kr. more than this government revenue for. And this proposal to pull 15 billion. kr. In the case of pensions billions, it is a question of financing additional public expenditure in relation to revenue. After all, this is not about debt; it is about financing public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175934	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202175937	But basically, it's a question of securing this safety margin so that we don't get into carambola with this 3-percent limit. And of course it has to be, among other things. is seen in the light of the risk of weakened growth prospects in relation to the August base. And then we will see when a new Economic Statement is published in mid-December with updated estimates for public finances. But in this way we will at least make sure that there is a necessary margin of safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180005	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180009	The tax minister says this intervention is due to weakened growth conditions. Then it is quite interesting to know when the government found out that growth conditions were weakened, because the government put forward its financial bill at the end of August, and even then the government was criticized for being too optimistic. The government goes further than what the government thought was responsible for presenting last year's draft budget, and then it is just striking that five weeks after the submission of the draft budget, an intervention is being made to ensure extra liquidity in the fund, because one is already aware that the conditions for one's own draft budget have gone. That's why I'm just interested in knowing: When does the government start thinking about making this pension package?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180106	In order to be able to give a perfectly precise answer on dates, I would like to ask you to have that question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180113	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180116	So I have to say that it is quite strange that the Minister of Taxation cannot say when this work begins, but I must ask that question in writing in order to hope that we can come closer to it in this way. Because it just doesn't seem very credible that at the end of August the government is putting forward a financial bill and then at the beginning of October it will find out that it is quite wrong. When the tax minister then says that this is due to weakened growth expectations, I just need to know if the tax minister will mention just one proposal in the Finance Act agreement that the government chose to make in November with SF and Enhedslisten, which does something about the broken growth assumptions. So, what new initiatives are there in the Finance Act agreement between the government, SF and Enhedslisten that creates more growth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180200	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180202	So, basically, if I am to give a date, and I assume that the rapporteur of the Left is interested in that, then I must remember that date quite accurately, and I simply do not have my calendar here on the platform, so I am able to say exactly when it has been. That is why I think the most reasonable thing is for me to give that answer in writing, simply for the sake of getting it as correctly as possible. Because if it's just been a Thursday or a Saturday or whatever it has been, I have to admit that I really can't remember standing on my feet. Now I can see from the President that my speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180243	Indeed, the time has passed for the answer. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. And if no one objects, it is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180314	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180331	Last year, the government chose to suspend the property assessments for 2013 and 2014. The government wanted to build a completely new property assessment system, and a group of experts was put on the task, and then a new model would be ready for the 2015 assessment. We were not able to do that earlier this year. There was no prospect of a solution, and that is why we now have this bill in which the government is proposing that the property valuations should be suspended for another two years. The Danish homeowners must therefore continue to wait for more precise assessments. The proposal maintains the modest rebate imposed by the government last year at 21⁄2%. of the property assessment. We should remember that this discount is therefore only important for a very modest proportion of Danish homeowners. It is only the homeowners who today pay property taxes on the basis of the current assessment, and that is perhaps 5-10 per cent. So on the Left side, we proposed last year and we stand by the principle that the rebate should be higher and be a discount that includes far more homeowners, so that the uncertainty that has arisen does not lead to homeowners risk having to play cash credit for the Treasury. That seems reasonable to us when the assessments are suspended. Of course, the fact that the government granted a few small extensions to the lowest rated properties and a relaxation for tenants and people in cooperative housing is a step in the right direction, and for example with tenants and people in cooperative housing associations we have also proposed from the Left side. However, the consequence of the proposal is that Danish homeowners continue to be denied access to complaining about the assessments. Maybe there's a new complaint system ready in 2017 • Maybe. When and to what extent the Danes can complain about the new property assessments is, to say the least, unclear, and also to what extent. Yes, it has to be said that recent times have made it quite clear that there is uncertainty about this if it is up to the government to decide. On the left side, it is disappointing that another year has passed and we have not come any closer to a solution. The Committee of Experts' recommendations for a new system are no more precise than the old ones. The Committee of Experts' recommendations on the basic assessments have been totally rejected by the government. On the other hand, the government will continue to work on the committee's recommendations on, among other things: the abolition of the so-called farmer's rule. This would then mean that agricultural property taxation should be increased, and one might say that if one follows a little bit of what is happening in the world around us and what it has to do with the Danish food industry, one can see that then there are plenty of challenges for Danish agriculture, and that the answer is that it may be that there is a tightening of taxes in the future, I think most people can see something constructive and forward-looking helpful in. As I said, we in the Left do not think that the government will give a clear answer to the country's homeowners. We do not think that the necessary security is being taken in relation to the fact that the landowners should not act as bank credit for the Treasury, and until there is a clarification as to when more precise assessments are available, we think it would be reasonable to choose to be on the side of the citizens and to opt for a higher discount, which affects considerably more homeowners than the government is proposing. However, we have to note that the government does not think this is necessary, and we cannot understand why the government is not dealing with the uncertainty and insecurity that there are in many places, by giving an appropriate discount, when the assessments that the government said last year will probably come soon will be postponed for at least another two years, possibly in 2017 there will be a new system. We believe that the government could proceed more offensively and ensure greater security for homeowners, and this is not the case with this bill, and that is why the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180803	Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all, there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180809	Come on, that was the big blade we were up on there. The Left says that they are concerned about the security of the citizens and are so comfortable in the hammock again. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm to me that no fewer than four tax ministers from the rapporteur's own party have been in charge of the property assessment system, knowing that it did not work. That is the first question I would like to ask before it gets completely rid of the rapporteur in his great concern for the safety of the Danes. Could it not have been solved during one of the four tax ministers who, with their eyes open, sat and had this problem on their desks? Then I just want to hear the rapporteur if you can get a little closer to what it is then, there will be an appropriate discount, which I can hear the Left going into. Can we make this a little more concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202180854	But from the outset we have said from the left that we are, of course, standing by what has happened on our watch. And I have to say that if you just take a little more of the story with you, the picture may be a little more nuanced than what the Social Democrats are busy producing. In 2011 there was a discussion here in the Danish Parliament about whether there should be a lock on the valuations and that only a schematic projection should be made, so that time and effort should not be spent on the property valuation, because we had a tax freeze anyway. It was actually based on the assessment made at the time and it was from 2009. And there I have to say, as general consumer information, that there was no massive criticism of the then 2009 assessment, and the idea of whether to freeze or not to make new property assessments and make a schematic projection alone was at least thoughts that the Social Democracy and the SF at that time actually liked so much that they supported the resolution in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181002	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181004	That was certainly not the answer to the question of what the Left thinks is an appropriate discount. So let me try to ask again: do I hear the rapporteur from the Left saying that it is the view of the Left that discounts should be granted to those who do not pay according to the current assessment? Is that what the Left is proposing? What is the demarcation? How does the Left define its proposal, and does the rapporteur of the Left have a bid to slap the bag or a sober calculation on what it will cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181037	We do not think it is enough to say that it should only apply to the homeowners who pay according to the current assessment. As I said, in order to be on the side of the citizens, this should be a discount that applied to more people. And I understand that it will, of course, be a larger amount than the government has proposed, but if you look at the bill, you can see that the permanent funding needed for this proposal is 45 million. kr., so even if the discount is significantly higher, after all, it is a financing requirement that is affordable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181111	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181117	I think it might be possible to take a little more responsibility for this, to take it a little more seriously in terms of its own responsibility for the matters we have come up with, because the property assessment system completely degenerated in the years when the Left had government power and had tax ministers on shifts. I think you could do that. That is why I cannot understand why we have not been very active in going in and making an agreement on how this problem could be resolved, because if it is not resolved, as a majority of the parties will do today, but without the Left, then there will be even more uncertainty for the citizens because of the red tape that the Left has helped to create. Then I have a simple question: if you give a higher discount, will it not be the case that it will typically be the homeowners in North Zealand who already pay less in tax than they would otherwise have paid because their houses are undervalued, who will get the biggest discount?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181230	We have had the discussion before, and I would like to repeat that we in the Left stand by what happens when we are responsible. It's our responsibility. We want to help find a solution, we just have to say that we do not think that what the government is proposing is useful. We do not think it appropriate that it should now take at least a few more years before there is a new system. We cannot understand why the government is so focused on saying that we have to do something completely new instead of getting repaired on the mistakes that may be there. So maybe I think that Mr. Frank Aaen gives a false picture of what has been of opportunity on our part. I have to say that I think that, when there is the doubts raised by the Reichsaudit, we should put in a security buffer for all homeowners, and that is why I think it should be a general discount which does not apply only to those who currently pay in relation to the current assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181336	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181338	Now the Left criticises the need for a new system. The alternative to a new way of making property assessments is to make a new wrong assessment. It's that simple in real life. So the Left is just proposing a new wrong assessment. My real question was, if it is not true that the Left's proposals mean the greatest tax cuts for those who are the most wealthy and who are already the most favoured because of the undervaluation of their houses and the tax freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181418	The fact that Enhedslisten is against the tax freeze is well known, and this is also emphasised in this case. I just think that when a doubt has been raised, one should be on the side of the citizens, and we do this by ensuring that all homeowners get a share in that discount. I have to say that there are many discussions about what the right solution is. I am just sorry that a year has now passed with a committee of experts which has made some recommendations that the government has adopted to a certain extent, something has been poured entirely off the board and one has to start on a blank piece of paper. And that is not something I am making up alone; there are home economists who have been out saying that there was probably more music in getting the mistakes that might be in the old system right instead of establishing something new. There is even greater uncertainty about this, and that is also the fact that the government does not dare to give a firm commitment that there is a new system ready in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181505	Thank you. Then there is one last brief comment from Mr. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181511	There's been so much going on in the past, but let the past be the past. What I really would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left is: how much should the rebate that the Left would like to give to homeowners be?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181528	I'm pretty much ready to be on the homeowners' side. Whether it should be a discount called 5 per cent. Or 10%, you can always argue. I think that if you look at the figure in the bill here, it is about 3 billion. kr. As a lump sum over a number of years, the draft law calls for permanent funding for 45 million. kr. So if you chose to be on the side of the citizens and said it had to be 5 per cent. or 10%, and if the amount was double or three times that, then we are talking about the fact that at the same time funding should not be provided for 45 million. kr. in sustainable financing, but 90 million. kr. or 135 million kr. I must say that I regard this as an affordable task in terms of providing the homeowners with that security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181625	Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181627	If I understand it correctly, it's at least 5%., The left is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181636	I think that a general relief of 5%. would be a very good start to avoid that the property owners may risk paying too much in tax, which the government then suggests that the property owners might get back in 2017 or 2018. There I think it will be putting in a safety valve where, when you look at what it costs compared to the proposal that the government has put forward, it costs 45 million. kr. In terms of sustainable financing, this is a modest amount of funding which we should be able to find together rather than simply pushing things forward, because the government does not have any formal funding in its proposal. The financing will be taken from public investment, but there is nothing to guarantee the sustainable financing of the 45 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181723	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. The next speaker is Astrid Krag, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202181731	Thank you. The issue we are dealing with here is whether the wrong property assessments are a serious matter, and we are not here on a happy basis. We are here, as it were, because we have not yet reached the goal of a new assessment system. It has been on the table of many a tax minister, and I have to say in parentheses that I think this is a remarkable way in which the Left stands by their responsibilities. I can hear the rapporteur from the Left saying that it is done, but none of what he then says confirms that you stand by the responsibility that you yourself had under the four tax ministers, where you did not solve it here. With the proposal that we are now considering, we want to implement the changes in the valuation law that are needed to ensure that we continue to have the necessary basis for the taxation of real estate until the new valuation system is in place. Basically, the matter is about two essential things. Firstly, we must ensure that citizens have a property assessment system in which they can be trusted and, secondly, we must provide a basis for continuing to levy property value tax, municipal land tax and municipal cover tax in this country. This is about approx. 40 billion. kr. a year, roughly the same amount as our primary school costs. So this isn't an indifferent discussion. Work is under way on this case. The new system must be a proper system, and that is why we must take the time needed to ensure a property assessment system that can be trusted as a citizen. Last year we set up an external committee of experts, the Engberg Committee, which has now made recommendations for a new assessment system. Those recommendations will continue to be worked on. We have launched a special centre to work on this only: develop models and a new IT system and prepare the necessary legislation. As I have said, the draft law here is the result of the fact that there is no new assessment system that can be used in the assessments per year. 1 October 2015. Therefore, we need the bill here, in other words to have a basis for taxing real estate until 2017 on owner-occupied properties and until 2018 on other properties, where we expect the new valuation system to be ready. When matters are serious, yes, you often want everyone responsible to do their bit to put things right. And when I was preparing for this bill here, I thought of these signs that are hanging on a lot of jobs. You probably all know them: Clean up after yourself, your mother doesn't work here. These may be a little fistful signs, but most people think it's a good idea to put your dirty coffee cup in the dishwasher before it starts collecting flies and smelling disgusting. It is a kind of general education, which it is sometimes a good idea to remind each other of. Sometimes you might want to be the fist-useful fellow who hangs up that sign. So I feel a bit like that about the Left and the property assessments, and I have not felt any less like this after hearing the rapporteur of the Left today. It was four Left Treasures Ministers who were told in various ways that there was something wrong with the property valuations, but they did not take action and in this way the present government inherited an unsuited gift. Now we are cleaning up and I would say that it would suit the Left and the other bourgeois parties that they gave a hand. I understand, then, that there is not quite a consensus among the bourgeois on what a new assessment system is intended to do. Some just don't want what the government wants and peace be with it; others will patch up what has otherwise been widely agreed is completely kaput; and then there are some who will use this as an opportunity to give big tax reliefs once again to those who have the most. And back on the bottom line, it's a problem. The fact that we have had to go through a process this autumn, when, instead of sitting at the negotiating table, the opposition is leaking notes to the press with questions that have been asked to be clarified, so that the government suddenly has to answer for one thing and the other, which we ourselves have not been doing, is both irresponsible and, I think, relatively unheard of and, above all, obscene to the citizens whom we are standing here today and who say is so deeply concerned. Now we can hear from the rapporteur from the Left that he believes that discounts should be granted to all homeowners, regardless of whether they pay according to the current estimates or not, and that this can only cost a small amount of money. I do not think that is right, but now I am not an economist, and that is why I hope that the tax minister or perhaps his ministry will be able to reply to it. I think it sounds like something that costs billions, but we can get an answer to that. Then I'm just gonna give mr. Frank Aaen is right that there is something socially wrong in what I hear the bourgeois parties go and dream about. It is they who already have the greatest fortunes in their homes that will benefit from it. And that is quite the opposite of what the Engberg Committee showed us: that if anything is involved, there is a social imbalance when we look at who has housing that has been assessed too high and too low. I do not want to enlarge that, and I have to say that I have a feeling that what the rapporteur of the Left has been standing here saying on the floor is both expensive and socially wrong, but I hope that we will be able to clarify that further. I hope, of course, that we can get to where all the parties responsible are voting to ensure that we have a basis for continuing to levy property value tax, municipal land tax and municipal cover tax in this country, and that we can do so until the new assessment system is in place for the basic reason that, as a citizen, we must of course be able to have confidence in our property assessments. That is why, of course, the Socialists are voting in favour of the proposal and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182248	Thank you, and it gave rise to a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182255	The proposal here is, of course, Systemdanmark at the worst, and I would therefore like to ask the Socialist rapporteur what she will say to the pensioners' couple from Roskilde who know that their housing is overrated, who are counting on how long they can stay in the home, but who knows that they cannot be allowed to complain about the property assessment for four years. So maybe they'll have to move from house to home. They know they live in a much too expensive home compared to the assessment, but they cannot be allowed to complain about it. Is it reasonable in a community governed by the rule of law not to complain about an overestimate when you know that the price is actually lower?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182335	I have heard many interesting examples from Conservatives in this debate, and I would actually like to ask the Conservatives' rapporteur to put that question in writing so that we can have an answer from the Ministry. I have to ask the rapporteur of the Conservatives back why this couple in Roskilde I don't know if they live on Drosselvej or where they live should have to move from home and house. I mean, I've never before tried to stand on Parliament's platform and had to make such a live version of the Luxury trap, where we relate to the finances of specific people, but I can see that in this debate the Conservatives have spent an incredible amount of gunpowder on inflating a fear and a horror out there that I think is unfounded. And I think it is incredibly inconvenient for a party that was in government as such, while this problem should have been resolved. But you didn't do it. I do not think it suits the Conservative People's Party, neither that one stood by then, nor that in this way one breathes a fear and a concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182433	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182435	I do not really fully understand the controversy and the weird form of rhetoric here, because here we are talking about 60%. of the Danes, many of whom are likely to vote for one of the government parties who live in their own homes and find that they have a government that will now deprive them of the right to complain about their property valuation for the next four years, despite the fact that from the National Audit Office's study, also from the Engberg Committee, many of the homes have been overrated. Some are underrated, but many are overrated. That is why my question is again to remove the controversy and rhetoric from the Socialist rapporteur, and it is a concrete question whether it is compatible with a community governed by the law that you are not allowed to complain about your property assessment when you consider it to be too high and thus pay too much in property tax, at least for the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182528	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182530	But Mr. So Brian Mikkelsen must either speak against better knowledge or not have gotten properly into the material. This has nothing to do with the 60%. by the Danes who live in their own home. It has something to do with the Danes who pay after the new property assessments, and that is a much lower figure. I am sure the Minister can also explain this. I think the rapporteur of the Left said that it was 5-10 per cent. in relation to the reason, if I remember correctly what came from the Engberg Committee. And then the rapporteur of the Conservatives says, and he must have it, that the assessment is that most people have had their housing assessed too low. That's why I just want to say that I don't understand this urge to get the discussion off the hook, compared to what's actually up and down in it. I look forward to the committee reading, because we must be able to use it to clear up a whole lot of the misunderstandings that Conservatives, either knowingly or because of misunderstandings, have contributed to this debate. I will look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182630	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182632	I would like to start by saying that I think it is a good thing that the cheapest houses have been bought with an extra discount. I also think it is very positive that there have been cooperative housing and rentals in this round. You didn't have that last time you made the discount, and I'd like to start by saying that it's positive. But what I do not understand in relation to cooperative housing and rentals is that they must first receive a discount from 2017. As I said, I think it is a good thing that you get equality and that they also get a discount like the ordinary homeowners, but why should they wait to get a discount for 2017? I do not think that is exactly indicative of equality in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182708	I do not reveal too much if I say that I have not been sitting at the negotiating table when a common understanding of this has been negotiated. So I would rather not comment on anything where I could say something wrong to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182724	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182728	I have to live with that answer, and I may have to ask for a reply from the tax minister, because he must at least have been sitting at the table. But then I'm gonna ask you about the cheapest houses. Mrs Astrid Krag said herself that the Engberg Committee has said that the houses which cost less than DKK 500,000 are typically valued at 20%. or more too loud. Now you come to the conclusion that they can get a further 21⁄2% discount, i.e. a total of 5 per cent. discount. How is it that they are typically valued at 20%? Too high, aim to give them only a discount of 5%.? The question, then, is whether Astrid Krag does not see well that there might be a need for a somewhat higher discount than the potential 5%, when you now know from the Engberg Committee that their houses are valued over 20%. wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182812	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182814	I am not quite sure that I recognize the figure that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is making. In other words, the 20% that I have been heard here from Parliament's platform are the 20% that the Engberg Committee estimates may be affected by errors in relation to reason, and that can be both above and below. So I will not get involved in responding to a percentage, but just say that there has been criticism that when we talk crowns and ears, the amount is not very high compared to the homeowners who have the very cheapest homes. And it's a perfectly correct consideration that when the property doesn't have a very high value, the discount in kroner and ear isn't so high a sum either. However, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also agrees that it is reasonable that we should take care of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182905	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202182909	It will almost be a bad habit for us to have such a historical review of the process. Again, the Socialist rapporteur says that four Left Tax Ministers were sitting on their hands. Well, it's notoriously wrong. A series of adjustments was made to what was specifically deducted for land improvements because it was technically very difficult and was addressed along the way. I would just like to know and have explained by the Socialist rapporteur, if it were so apparent to the Social Democrats in 2011, that the property assessments were completely hopeless, why, for that matter, the Social Democrats and the SF could vote in favour of a resolution in the Parliamentary Chamber, which said that the property assessment, which was the 2009 assessment, would now be maintained, and then only a schematic projection would be made on the basis of the price developments found. It was not a matter of making new assessments; the 2009 assessment held fast. If the 2009 assessment was so crazy and foolish, how could the Social Democracy support it back in 2011?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183014	Well, we get through this repeatedly having rollouts of the historical process. The reason why I felt compelled to mention this was that I had to hear the rapporteur of the Left on several occasions from the platform say: of course we stand by what has happened on our watch and we take responsibility. Moreover, we now see that the Left will not help solve the very fundamental problem of having a property assessment system that is kaput. Then you start pretending you can patch it up and adjust it a little, and then everything will be in its finest order. I don't think that's fulfilling your responsibilities. I think it would suit the Left to do it. We just have to say, after the Engberg Committee has made its report, that there is no quick fix. It can't go extremely fast. We need to have a property assessment system that can be fundamentally trusted as a citizen, which, moreover, can be understood as a citizen, which is transparent and transparent and which has some parameters that are relevant. We've got a really good basic sketch or blueprint. That work has already been set in motion. It must take place in full force, but it cannot be implemented more quickly than that. It is extremely important, and I would think it would be very comfortable if the Left were to back it up. If you have to ask back, even if the President has stood up in the chair, I would like to ask: what is the Left actually going to do if government should change? Are all the work that is being done in the secretariat that has been set up now to be completely scrapped, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183134	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183137	What is crucial in politics when it comes to making agreements is making good agreements. It is not, of course, a question of whether to make an agreement for the sake of the agreement. I understand that this is the message of the Social Democrat Party. Because there has been something that has arisen while the Left had government responsibility, we must also make an agreement to do something about it. It's not like that in my optics. I'm not making a deal to make a deal. I'm making a deal to make a good deal that I recognize myself in. I just have to say that we do not find it satisfactory with the elements on which this proposal is based. We made that clear last year. The government has chosen to drive with more of the same. Then it is no surprise that we still do not like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183220	I can only note that after we have had a committee of experts to sit and work for a year, and after the committee has pointed the way we have to go and we have started work immediately, the Left is left in the hammock and says: "Ow, beaver, bu, we don't like that. I think it is very relevant for the Danes to know whether the work of the implementation centre that is working there right now will be slowed down if government power changes. What are you gonna put in place? What, in fact, does the Left want to say in addition to that we should give tax rebates to those who, moreover, do not pay according to the current assessment, and that could cost handkerchiefs? I think we lack an incredible number of answers from the Left to a question which could end up being extremely expensive for our society if we do not resolve it properly. We can only note that the Left has been able to sit on their hands in the past, although I know that the Left rapporteur does not like that expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183303	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183308	The government wants a 21⁄2% discount on the valuation. plus some places 21⁄2%. To this we tell others that it is simply too little, because in some places we know that the properties are valued more than 21⁄2%. plus 21⁄2%. Too high. It has to be more; the discount has to be bigger. To that, Mrs Astrid Krag says that it is antisocial, it is crooked, because elsewhere the property is not valued too high, and if their owners also have to get a discount etc., they get a very big gain out of it without it actually being deserved because theirs is not too high. I would like to inform you that at least the Liberal Alliance has never said that the rebate should be the same everywhere in the country. We have said that there must be a precautionary principle, and this precautionary principle may well result in a greater discount in some parts of the country than in other parts of the country, and I fully agree that those of us who, for example, are in favour of this. live in the City of Copenhagen, do not have ratings that are too high they may, on the contrary, be a little in the low end while others in Udkantsdanmark have ratings that are too high, and therefore the discount should be appropriate there. Why is Mrs Astrid Krag against this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183421	Firstly, I would like to say that it sounds very good if, for once, the Liberal Alliance is actually more financially responsible than the Left and says that this should not be a general tax relief for homeowners. That's nice. Then I would say that it is exciting if the Liberal Alliance sees itself able to create a discount model that hits very, very accurately and precisely. I think it is a sensible model that we have come up with with with the agreement that we have made, in which we say that it must be they who have the cheapest housing, because we can see that there is a built-in imbalance and that it is they who have had the highest ratings. That's a good way to do it, I think. I find it hard to see how to turn it together, as Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen proposes, namely the implementation of these very precise needle-stick discounts that are geographically applicable, just as they should, but Mr. Ole Birk Olesen should be very welcome to submit proposals for our further discussion on how to organise it in this way. It's exciting to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183520	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183522	The Liberal Alliance is certainly very financially responsible and, in our own view, also more financially responsible than the Left and all other parties in the Folketing. This does not exclude the fact that we also believe that property taxes should be relieved in the country. We have funded this in a coherent economic plan. But now we're talking about the ratings. The assessments shall be correct; at least they shall not be too high. In fact, it is stated in the valuation law that they must not be too high. If Mrs Astrid Krag is willing to make the discount bigger, she can just do it by saying that they 21⁄2%. extra for the cheap accommodation should not be 21⁄2%. It has to be 10%. or 15%. 20%, which is now considered appropriate. The model is there; it is just the percentage that has to be higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183609	But now that we have become so much wiser that we know that when we look at it all over the board, we have not been judged to the detriment of homeowners, we have not been judged too high but rather too low, I think that this is the wrong approach to what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has. I would like to say that no one is standing here and saying I'm not doing it at least that these discounts are a solution in themselves. It may well turn out, when we get the new system in place, that some people actually have to get some money back that goes beyond these discounts. Nor do I think I have heard the Minister say that the discounts are a solution in themselves. We will not get that solution until we have a new system that works. There we are still left with the very big unanswered question of what will happen if power changes in this country. What is to happen to the implementation centre that is in the process of creating a new property assessment system? What do you want to put in place? I'm not asking to be polemical. I am asking because I simply do not know. What is it that the bourgeois parties can agree that they want to replace? I don't know. The answer is fluttering in the wind, but I think the Danes deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183714	Thank you. Then there is no more inscribed to short remarks, and the next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202183730	The reason for this bill was that the Reichsaudit came up with a completely critical report on the property assessment system, which said that 75%. of the assessments were wrong, some too high and some too low. That problem had been there for many years, and that is why the Engberg Committee was set up, which was to come up with a model for a new assessment system. It turned out that that system was, unfortunately, almost as crooked. Probably something more transparent, but at least still crooked. But what was probably most surprising, at least in relation to what I had expected was that you didn't get a complete system that you had ordered and hoped for. That is why we are now in a situation where we have to find out how to move forward. The proposal is therefore about continuing the 2011 valuation until 2017 in respect of owner-occupied dwellings, and the 2012 valuation will continue until 2018 for other properties, among others. commercial real estate. The previous discount scheme for owner-occupied dwellings of 2.5%. is continued, but it expands, so that the residential buildings with more than three properties are included in it. However, with that in mind, they only get the discount from 2017. The cheapest properties also get an extra 2.5% discount on the part that is less than DKK 500,000, and it is then escalated upwards. I would say that there are both positive and negative things in the model that has now been presented. The positive thing is that you clearly get more, and especially the fact that the cheapest houses get an extra discount, we think that is really positive, among other things. because the Engberg Committee's report shows that the cheapest houses were typically too high-valued, and therefore it makes sense, of course, to give them an extra discount. It is also positive that you get both cooperative and rental housing. I remember several parties also calling for this last time we dealt with the postponement of property assessments, so it is nevertheless positive that it has been included. So we think the model itself is okay. You can then talk about what the level of the discount should be, and there I do not think that it is 2.5%. That's enough. Especially when we see from the Engberg Committee's report that the cheapest homes have actually been somewhat higher rated than what is potentially 5%. discount. That is where we would like to see, for example. who got set with a somewhat higher discount for them to avoid them acting as overdrafts for the state. I also find it a little surprising to see that the cooperative housing will only receive a discount from 2017. As I am, among other things. in writing. - (FR) In my previous question to the Socialist rapporteur, it is, after all, positive that they should be included, but I had hoped that it would have become more equality with the owner's residence, so that they would have a discount somewhat earlier. But we can try to drill in that during the committee procedure, and when the minister gets on the floor, he can possibly. explain why the model has been proposed in this way. Another part of this proposal is that the right of appeal should continue to be suspended. I understand that it may be difficult to deal with all complaints now that you do not have an assessment system to deal with the complaints, but I do think it is a pity if you are not able to make a model in this way to deal with those assessments that are completely wrong. I believe that most of us rapporteurs in this Chamber have tried to get e-mails from citizens who may have an estimate of 2 million. kr., but bought the house for 1 million. kr. It is just a thoughtful example, because I do not remember the specific figures and you do not need individual cases. In some of the cases where it is clearly possible to see and demonstrate that the valuation price is completely off-balanced in relation to trade prices, I think that we need to find a model for how to deal with them, until we have a new assessment system. Then I would also like to say something about something that is not part of this proposal, but was part of the government's plan for future redress. It has been said here that it should not be possible to complain to the National Tax Court in the future, but only be able to have its case dealt with by the Appraisal Board. That part does not support the Danish People's Party, and we also mentioned this last time, which was dealt with in a legislative proposal on this, but I wanted to mention it again. I would also like to mention a few things that I think are missing from the draft law. I think it could have been established that when we have a new system, you automatically get back the amount you have paid too much. This has also been signalled by several parties, but I think it could be stated that this applies both to rentals, cooperatives and owner-occupied dwellings. As I understand from what I read in this draft law, this does not apply to all three parts, and I think it might as well be established. I am also a little sceptical about the fact that people have reported out. I don't think it says in this bill that you will only pay back in relation to the 2011 assessment. This means that what you get back in housing tax is only what you have paid too much from 2013 onwards. After all, there are people who have potentially paid too much tax as from 2007, which is why we think it is too little that you only look at 2013. On this basis, I can say that we cannot support the draft law as it is now before us, but we are naturally looking forward to a good committee procedure in which we might manage to change something.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184258	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted to make brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184309	Thank you. Basically, this bill, L 76, is about homeowners having to have confidence in public property assessments. Much has been said and written about the erroneous assessments, but what remains and what it is basically about is trust in the system. I wish we would not have had to deal with this bill at all, in the sense that the ideal course would have been if the property assessments were already under control. There isn't. At the same time, however, it is important to establish that it is difficult, if not directly impossible, to arrive at an ideal solution, in the sense that there is no result on property assessments, for the simple reason that it is an assessment. Therefore, it is about getting as close as possible when the public has to assess a citizen's accommodation. A new assessment system is needed. We need a system that is better than the current one. The legislation in force is based on the assumption that all properties must be assessed per year. 1 October 2015 under a new assessment system. Unfortunately, however, this cannot be done. On the basis of the recommendations of the Engberg Committee, a new system is being worked out at high pressure. The work of the Engberg Committee has shown that it is actually possible to establish an assessment system based on better data and more transparent. It's very uplifting. However, the work of the committee has also shown how complex and complicated the assessment task is, and the committee points to a number of challenges that need to be addressed. It is vital that we adopt the necessary legislation so that we can provide the necessary basis for the taxation of real estate, while waiting for a new valuation system, probably from 2017 onwards for ownership homes and the year after for other properties. As I began by saying, this is about trust in the system and, in particular, in the property assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184542	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184606	It is crucial that we can be confident that the valuations of SKAT are correct as a basis for how much you have to pay in property taxes. That is why we must also recognise that a great deal of work is still ahead of us with analyses and solutions if the citizen is to have a property assessment in which he can be trusted. Therefore, it has unfortunately been necessary to continue the previous assessments until 2017 and 2018 respectively. At the same time, a corresponding extension of the 21⁄2% rebate will continue. the assessment. In the context of the continuation of the previous assessments, the draft law provides for a new additional discount for the land and properties that have been assessed at the lowest level. All in all, therefore, there are some solid discounts for very many real estate owners. In SF we are of course pleased that further reductions in the property tax will benefit the owners of the lowest rated land and property. Among other things, it can be done. help ease the burden for many in the outermost regions of the country. In this way, it is good that the government takes citizens' legal certainty seriously by both continuing and extending the applicable assessments and reductions, but it is equally a pity that it is both difficult and very expensive for the public funds to make correct assessments. A new and more precise system will ensure that we all pay more of the taxes we have to pay. This does not alter the fact that it will have a major impact on tax revenue in the years to come when the continuation of the old valuations with discounts will cost public funds over 2.5 billion. kr. After rewinding in the period from 2015 to 2022. It is regrettable that, in this way, we need to grant discounts on housing tax in order to ensure adequate legal certainty for homeowners, but that is the reality we are facing. Therefore, it should not be a secret that we in the SF look forward very much to having a better and more accurate property assessment system. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184755	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Frank Aaen coming there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202184806	Everyone can see that there is a need for a new assessment system. Perhaps one day you should botanize a little more in how things could go as wrong as they have gone. That is to say, it was in less than ten years, it completely degenerated under the government of the VK with the Left Treasure Ministers as responsible. I have to say that I believe that there was a clear policy during the period that said that it did nothing, that the assessment system degenerated, so that it might be dramatically changed. Nor did it object to the fact that it was the friends up in North Zealand and other rich areas who had the greatest advantage of the wrong assessments, including having great benefits from the forms of tax freezes that were introduced in this area. I do not think it should be said that it was just because they were capable of the ministers who were sitting in that period I think it has to be said that they pursued a very clear policy in favour of the Left's overall political objectives, including the goal of benefiting the richest in society in the same way as has been done in other areas. Of course, we think it is necessary to make a temporary solution. We are very surprised that the Left is so reluctant to take its own responsibility in this matter. It's a little strange that it's Enhedslisten, who has been against these systems and over the ages has actually proposed something quite different, and I have to come back to that, who has to be the responsible police and ensure that new property assessments come, and that you don't just make a new wrong property assessment, that you don't just let things sail, so that those who own their own accommodation have to be insecure for a long time to come. So, in fact, I would say that it is a responsible government on this point and that those who support the government actually take responsibility here in contrast to the Left and Conservatives, who are otherwise responsible for the fact that things have gone so terribly wrong but we are doing so. We are pleased that time is being created to make a new, better assessment • we hope it will be better. We are pleased that general housing and cooperative housing have also been included in the system of discounts introduced earlier. And we are also pleased that a special discount is being made for those who we know have been the most unfairly treated in the system, namely those who have the cheapest housing, that is, live in those regions of the country where there is the least economy. That was where the biggest overestimates of housing prices were held, whereas those who had the most money were those who benefited from the undervaluation of housing prices. So, of course, we think that's fine too. We would like to ask a few questions in committee about whether there has now been equality between general housing, cooperative housing and owner-occupied housing. When, for example, does the discount take place? in force, and is it sufficient? Is it not the case that an extra discount could also be introduced for those who have a general home on the cheapest grounds, in the same way as you have with owner-occupied dwellings on the cheapest grounds and where there are the lowest property values? We have asked questions about this, so we will have them addressed in committee. Then we are sorry that the owners of commercial property get a small billion kroner in tax relief. So, in fact, it is the case that owners of commercial real estate probably belong to those who have had the greatest relaxations in the previous legislation. It is not, of course, because the discount scheme gives owners of commercial property a very large extra gain. After all, it is because it is owners of commercial property who, when they have for so many years postponed the valuations and thus did not set up the valuations, have really made a great deal of money on it, and we do not think that is fair. We shall therefore try to pursue this in the committee's work. We are not entirely satisfied with the funding either. It certainly looks very reasonable, and we may well end up voting in favour of it, but we are not entirely satisfied with just taking the funding by reducing public investment, which is what has been proposed. Then we might as well try to see if we can't find the money from those who have the most. They're the ones who have the most money in this society who've gotten the biggest gains from tax freezes and from a degenerate property valuation. Perhaps we should also find the money there, and we will address that in the negotiations with the government in the future. So we expect to vote in favour of the bill, but we are certainly not satisfied with what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185315	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. There are no brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185324	The property valuation system has failed. It's not working. We have the words of the Reichsaudit for this, and everyone has acknowledged it. However, we do not need a new property assessment system; we need to abolish the property assessment. We can do this quite unproblematicly in relation to the property value tax, which is frozen, and therefore we do not need to know whether the property increases in value in the coming years, because the property value tax is subject to a tax freeze and no matter how much the property increases in value, people do not have to pay any more in property value tax. It'll secure the tax freeze. In this Parliament there is a broad, broad majority which does not believe that the tax on the property value tax should be abolished. That's what the government says. It is not in favour of abolishing the tax freeze. That's what the bourgeois opposition says. Nor is it in favour of abolishing the tax on property. Only the Enhedslisten and perhaps the Radical Left remain, and it is only a small minority that we do not need to set up a new expensive property assessment system to satisfy, because they will probably never get a majority in this country. The blame remains, and there is no tax freeze on the ground, but the Folketing can decide there must be. We in the Liberal Alliance think so. Our hope is that when, hopefully after the next elections, there will be a new government, there will be a majority in this Parliament to freeze the ground blame as well. Then we do not need an assessment system for the basic values, and then we can also do away with it. What we just have to do is take the 2011 assessment as the starting point. Then we look at the areas where it is too high and establish a precautionary principle there, and we reduce the assessment by 20-30 per cent. The other places where we know that assessment is not too high, we leave it where it is, and then we freeze the debt in the future, just as we have today frozen the property value tax. That's what we need... nothing else. That is why we do not support this bill from the government, which will continue a 2011 assessment with a far too small discount in some of the areas of Denmark where the assessment is far too high, and thus will ensure that those areas are taxed too heavily. We cannot support this, and we cannot therefore support the transfer of the wrong assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185620	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185626	Yeah, thanks for that. I have to say that I hear billions rolling again. I think that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur will continue to do so, in other words, in relation to the proposals that we have on the table here. So I don't really want to ask that much. I tried to get an answer to that from the rapporteur on behalf of the Left, and we must continue to do so. But the question I have to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is: how hard will you stand on this in relation to a possible new government after an election? Now I know that there is not so much talk of ultimate demands in Danish politics in this way, but if you can talk about a degree of it anyway, how hard will the Liberal Alliance stand on this specific requirement in relation to the ground of guilt, for example.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185711	Well, the billions roll in the government's 2020 plan. The government is planning to spend 20 billion dollars. kr. more in 2020 than in 2014. If the government could only spend 10 billion dollars. kr. more by 2020 than in 2014, you would be able to freeze the ground debt, because it costs no more. So if you just didn't have to spend as much extra money in the public sector all the time as the government wants, you don't have to scare the landowners. How firm are we gonna stand on this? But we want to be quite firm, but we want to be firm about the other things we are in favour of, so it is not clear what we are going to achieve and what we are not going to achieve. We think it is very important to ensure that housing owners are not overtaxed. We do not think it is fair that it is housing owners who have to pay two thirds of the public sector consumption growth that the government is proposing. It is the case that the debt must rise by 14 billion. kr. by 2020, and that is because the government will spend 20 billion. kr. more in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185818	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185819	Yes, now I hope that we can agree that people who live in their own homes also benefit from improved cancer treatment, from proper conditions in home care, when we grow old, that we are getting Denmark's most well-educated generation, so we also have something to live on in the future. So I think it is a rather false contradiction, as one hears the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, but we can say that on the bottom line it is true. These are political priorities, about what the money will be used for, and so I just want to know if I can understand this: if you can talk about the Liberal Alliance having a top three over what it takes to support a new bourgeois government, then this will be discussed here and we can discuss whether it is a very large or a little large tax relief for the homeowners and especially those who have the most expensive housing • being on the top three list of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185911	I can inform Mrs Astrid Krag that people living in their own homes also pay income tax and VAT and excise duties on the goods they buy, etc. etc. Like people who don't live in their own homes. Therefore, people in their own homes already pay for all the services that come from the public sector. The question is: why do they have to pay extra in relation to people who, instead of giving priority to housing, for example. Is it a priority to go on vacation four times a year? There is no separate holiday tax, but there is a housing tax. And I do not understand why there should be the discrimination against the different consumer choices that families and citizens in Denmark can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202185959	The proposal here preserves a useless system, which both the Reichsaudit and the Engberg Committee have characterised as flawed and extremely flawed, leaving many Danish families with some major economic challenges. The thing is, of the 60%. by the Danes, who live in their own homes, a very large proportion of them, both according to the Engberg Committee and the Rigsrejen, experience that their accommodation has been overestimated. This means that we accept a situation in Danish society where some pay too much in property tax over a longer period of time. The fact that there is no greater outrage about the fact that there is no greater indignation about it in all the parties of the Folketing is, of course, deeply unreasonable. And you can be amazed, and you can be amazed, because what is the legislator's primary task? After all, it must be to protect citizens from state power, insofar as they are not torn away from tax. So it has nothing to do with how high the tax should be, etc., but here there is a recognition that you have a system that you know is flawed and that means that many homeowners pay too much in property tax. We also know from the many statements that have been made that many of the families are currently assessing how many years they can stay in their apartment or their house. And it is also a completely unreasonable situation, but the government, together with their support parties, chooses to preserve a system that is flawed, flawed and which means that it leaves ordinary Danes with an extreme degree of insecurity. In other words, we are experiencing a system which is based on wrong assessments, so the first step we should actually have taken if we did not have a better system was to give a higher discount than the 21⁄2% that the government is proposing. The second part of the proposal, which, moreover, I cannot understand the government and the support parties can accept in their own proposal, is that homeowners are denied access to complain about their assessment for up to four years. You simply do not allow homeowners to complain about an assessment that you know is wrong. Don't complain about it. I mean, what kind of legal situation is that? We would not accept that in other areas. Imagine if you were so badly treated by a company after buying a product: I have been locked in relation to the car I had bought; I simply could not complain about it; I had to maintain it for the next four years because I was simply not allowed to complain about it. So you were not allowed to complain about the car, even though there was something wrong with it. Nevertheless, because of the lack of a new property assessment system, it is accepted that homeowners should not complain about their accommodation for up to four years. And, of course, this is not an acceptable situation in a legal society. There must be a built-in right of complaint which means that you can get your case tested and can get your house or apartment assessed in a fair and decent way. So the proposal here goes in all respects structurally in the totally wrong direction. The extra rebate that is being given is, in fact, reasonable enough. But it's change. Not many homeowners are affected by it in the end, and in the overall assessment in relation to a financial law it is no money at all; it is not when you look at a full-year impact of it, such in a financial law perspective. Therefore, apart from being deficient and problematic, it is also unambitious to solve the problems of homeowners. That is why the Conservative People's Party can only vote against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202190353	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202190405	Thank you for a thorough debate on this bill. There have been many speeches, and there have been many comments, some of which have been positive, while others have been less positive, and that, of course, is also what is to be expected, the case and, above all, its history taken into account. First of all, I would like to thank the responsible parties who have indicated that they are ready to vote on the specific legislative proposal now before us, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where there is no legal basis for further work when we pass the turn of the year. I would like to make it clear that this is a very serious matter which we are dealing with. Basically, it is about citizens having property assessments that they can trust. That is the long-term objective; despite the fact that we are dealing here with a treatment which is about a preliminary postponement of property valuations, the long-term goal is that we should be able to make some right-wing property assessments. Unfortunately, we cannot achieve it as quickly as we would like, but in a few years we will achieve it. In a different perspective, the matter is just as serious. It is in the utmost consequence that we must ensure the basis for continuing to collect property value tax, municipal land tax and municipal cover tax in Denmark. It is also about the fact that, in the period up to the new property valuation system, an overall amount of around 40 billion will have to be collected. kr. a year. This corresponds to the cost of keeping the Danish primary school going. As explained in the draft law's observations, the legislation in force is based on the assumption that all properties must be assessed per year. 1 October 2015 with a new assessment system, but unfortunately this cannot be done. We didn't know that last year when the law was changed; then we didn't have the same knowledge as we do today. What has happened in the meantime? It has happened that the external committee of experts set up by the government last year has now completed its work. The external committee of experts has made a number of recommendations which we are now working on, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. The work of the Engberg Committee has shown that it is actually possible to establish an assessment system based on better data and more transparent. That is very positive. However, the work of the committee has also shown how complex the assessment task is, and the committee points to a number of challenges that need to be addressed. As an example, in its work, the committee has focused primarily on the assessment of owner-occupied housing, and thus much work remains to be done on the valuation of other properties. The Engberg Committee, with its work, has given us a good foundation on which we can continue to work, and we are doing so. The government has thus established a special centre, which we call the ICE it stands for the Implementation Centre for Property Assessment. This centre will develop the necessary models for property assessment, develop a new IT system and prepare the necessary legislation in this area. As already mentioned, this also means that it is not possible to establish a new assessment system which can already be used in an assessment per year. 1 October 2015. This is regrettable, but I can only say that this is the reality. Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions. If there was an easy solution, of course we would have chosen it. That brings me back to what I started with, namely the seriousness of the matter. It is absolutely necessary that we adopt the necessary legislation so that there will also be a basis for taxation of real estate in the time that goes by until a new property assessment system can be applied. We expect that this can be done from the 2017 valuation of owner-occupied properties and the 2018 valuation of other properties. That is why I have the expectation that the parties of the Folketing will be aware of their responsibilities and help carry through this bill. I cannot, nor am I going to stand here and engage in political controversy. This is too serious a matter for me, but I will not fail to mention that the problem we are dealing with here is a problem inherited by the current government. Nor is it too much to ask for the parties that have previously been in government to help resolve it. As I said, I have the expectation that the parties of the Folketing will support this absolutely necessary bill. I am, of course, happy to contribute to the clarification of any questions that may be raised during the committee's work, and I naturally make myself available for the constructive committee's consideration. There have been a few comments along the way, which I would like to comment on right now. One of the comments came from the Left and was about the comments contained in the bill on, for example, the farmer's rule. This is one of the issues on which the Engberg Committee has made comments in their recommendations, without, of course, taking a position at this stage. There are a large number of recommendations in the Engberg Committee's report which are not being considered at this stage. So what the long-term solution might be with regard to that question is not something we are debating today, but it is of course clear that one might well have imagined the situation that we could have laid down some principles in relation to how one might have thought it into a future system. Of course, this would require an interest in making a broad political agreement on this issue. The rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament was specifically asked about the discounts that the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party referred to. It's a little complex, but I'm gonna try to answer it anyway. There were several different models in play, and I must try to sketch it out to the best of my ability. It is, of course, subject to the uncertainty of calculations in relation to the actual estimates in relation to various discounts. If we imagine the scenario of taking the 2.5% that lies in the specific legislative proposal and not just spreading them to the 20%. of the properties, which pay according to the current assessment • thus the assessments that could potentially have been misappropriated but also spread them out to the remaining approx. 80%, which does not pay after the current property valuation, and which is therefore not in danger of having an incorrect assessment, would be a not insignificant additional amount of approx. 2.6 billion kr., which one must find, after a return of an amount of, I must hurry to say, of approx. 1.9 billion kr. Of course, there's some uncertainty in these estimates, but it's up to that layer. I also heard that the rapporteur of the Left mentioned some other possible discount rates of 5% and 10% respectively, and if the potential discount rates are calculated, then we are talking at 5%. on an amount of 6,5 billion DKK, and at a general discount of 10%. We are talking about up to 15.2 billion. kr. It is therefore a relatively large amount that we should, if necessary, finance extra, and it is worth noting amounts which will then not only benefit buildings, where it will certainly be possible to question whether this is the correct assessment, but also for a much, much larger part of property where you do not want to be in that situation, simply because you do not pay according to the current assessment. So, of course, it is some not insignificant amounts that would be given in discounts to some properties, where it certainly cannot be said that there would be a potential problem if it were the case that we had a current assessment to work on. There were also a few questions from the Danish People's Party. One of them went on to do this with when an assessment will have effect in relation to these properties that come in, i.e. rentals and co-operatives. And there it is that when you make a valuation, there is a time shift, so an assessment in 2011 had effect in 2013 and in 2014. In other words, when you make a land value, make a valuation for 2015, it has an effect in 2017 and 2018. However, I would very much like to clarify this further, including in the answer to the written questions that the rapporteur announced. I also believe that Mr. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten mentioned some of the questions, and it must of course be explained more precisely • it is clear when this has the different effects. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also referred to the question of what it really is that it will be possible to complain about on the basis of the old system; for obvious reasons we have not yet taken a position on the new system. It will be the case that all assessments, which are a continuation of an earlier assessment, may be challenged at the time of appeal against the assessment. It is in 2017 for owner-occupied dwellings and in 2018 for other properties. If, as an example, we take an owner's residence that has been assessed in 2011 and that has not changed since then, then the 2011 assessment has continued as a 2013 assessment and a 2015 assessment, and you will then be able to complain about them in spring 2018. If, for example, has been completed in 2014, i.e. this year, the property will be re-evaluated in 2014, and this re-assessment can be complained of until 1 July 2015. The review in 2014 will then be continued as a 2015 assessment, and this 2015 assessment will be subject to complaint in spring 2018. I hope that will give an answer to that, but it is clear that these are also complex questions. Okay, I think that's what I had written down on the block. However, as I said, I would very much like to return to any questions that may be raised in the further reading of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191612	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191617	Thank you for the answers, but they were very technocratic, so I think we should focus on what this means for the individual family. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear what the government and the minister have of answers to the families out there who are sitting and thinking: my house is valued at x number of money too much, we will have to continue to pay the increased property tax and also the land tax, which is too high, because it is also somewhat related to the property assessment itself. What is the answer to them when one sits on government and has the opportunity to do something to help the hundreds of thousands of families who live in apartments and houses and get their assessment locked up for four years, even though they know that this is an unfair assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191658	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191700	For quite a lot of people, it is actually the case that they do not pay at all according to the current assessment. Let's hurry up and make that clear. 80% by the landowners in Denmark does not pay a ground debt according to their current assessment. 95% the property owners do not pay property value tax according to the current assessment. So it's already narrowing the field a bit. It is clear that there will be and are people who have a wrong assessment, and that is also why we need to create a new property assessment system. What is the interesting aspect of the Engberg Committee's study is that it is essentially the houses which are at the cheapest end, which have been most misestimated. It is not the case that the Engberg Committee arrives at a general overvaluation of houses. On the contrary, it seems that the system has tended to underestimate the most expensive houses and overestimate the cheapest ones. That is why, of course, in this legislative proposal that is now before us, we are deliberately giving an increased discount to the cheapest houses, in other words to counteract some of it, but I would like to stress that the day when there are new assessments, there will also be an automatic refund to the homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191824	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191827	There's still a lot of families out there thinking, "What about us?" What about us sitting in our house or our apartment? We know that we have a government that will preserve a system which, regardless of what is explained from the platform, we can see from the study of the National Audit Office, from the Peter Engberg Committee's study • shows that a very large proportion of the houses and apartments are valued too high in relation to what the real selling price is. Isn't there anything shattering in the ears of a minister who, after all, must also be responsible for ensuring that citizens are properly treated in this country, that there is some sort of legal certainty? Where is legal certainty if you accept for four years that families will pay too much in property taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202191914	There's nothing I'd rather do than have a property assessment system that worked. That would be the best thing, because then we would actually be able to go in and make an assessment that was fair and then we would automatically be able to make sure that those people who had to be over-rated also got their money back, just as we would be sure that those who paid too little would get the right payment. The good news is here that the day we can do it, people who may have paid too much will automatically get the money back, and those who have paid too little will not get an extra bill. So here you get a guarantee that what you are going to pay in the coming years is what we know about, but until we have an assessment system that works which we can match it up to, we have to accept this delay. This does not happen with my good will, but unfortunately the systems are such that we are not ready to make a fair assessment this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192011	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192014	The tax minister is juggling on the platform with some relatively large billions of dollars, which will cost to pay for what the Left has supposedly proposed in order to ensure that this transition period does not go too hard on the landowners. It must be a somewhat smaller amount of billions, perhaps even a million dollars, which it would cost if the government instead of a 21⁄2% rebate. on the part of the property value below DKK 500,000 and 21⁄2%. on the part of the basic value, which is less than DKK 100,000, suggested that it was 10%. or 15%. 20%, that is, according to the government model. Why has the government proposed so little, so poor a discount of 21⁄2%, when the government knows that there are people out there who are charged property taxes and have an assessment that is significantly above the 21⁄2% that the government gives at a discount?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192109	Of course, it is always difficult to find the exact cut on these things, and there is nothing I would rather than count on and give the Danish Parliament and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says what it would cost. It is clear, of course, that it will also have to be financed, but we would very much like to come back with concrete proposals as to what it would cost to put such a discount rate higher. When we have put it on, it is because the estimate is that there is a general overvaluation of the cheapest houses, houses that typically cost less than 1⁄2 million. kr. and that in this way it picks up some of these questions. It is clear that there will also be houses where the error is beyond the 5%. There will certainly be. There will also be some where it is considerably below. There will also be houses in this category, which may even be underrated. So you could say that's such an estimate from any other equal point of view, but that's where we've chosen to make our cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192218	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192220	I fully agree that the overvaluation is highest in the cheapest houses, and I fully agree that the government is countering it with a 21⁄2% discount. at the cheapest houses. I just ask why it should only be 21⁄2% when we know that it is far too little in terms of ensuring that the cheapest houses are not overrated. It's not that expensive to raise that percentage. But the government is obviously so fond of the money you get in the treasury that you would certainly rather have some money too much than some money too little, even if the money that comes too little is perhaps not as many as the figures that the tax minister juggled with when he was going to talk about the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192303	I would very much like to come back with the precise indications of what it would cost; that is clear. However, I would also like to stress that in all cases, when a homeowner gets the 2017 valuation and can see that here is an assessment that is lower than the one he has had and that he has paid his property tax and his land liability after, then the homeowner does not have to worry at all, because then there will also be automatic money back, including what might be beyond the discount. The other good news is, of course, that in cases where one of these homeowners gets a property valuation, where you can see that you have received a discount that was not necessary because your property valuation was correct or perhaps even too low, you do not get a bill that has to be paid back either. So in this way we will have a guarantee that there will be a certain amount of compensation at least. And in any case, the people who have paid too much will get the money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192409	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192412	After all, the Minister for Taxation made it very clear why we think it is inadequate. After all, the Minister stressed that it is a small few who pay according to the current assessment and that the vast majority do not pay property taxes according to the current assessment. And they won't benefit from the discount. Then the Minister says it has to be financed. Yes, yes, but then the Minister must also confirm that there is no funding in the proposal put forward by the government. You take them off the box and then say that it is public investment that has to last. But there is not a proposal that produces new money to finance this. I just need to understand what the Minister is saying about the fact that if, sometime, perhaps in 2017, there is an assessment that is lower, then as a homeowner you automatically get too much property tax paid back. I just want to ask whether the Minister can confirm that it is only for the 2011 assessment, despite the fact that we can listen to the Socialist rapporteur, that the problems have been well-known for everything and all years back. I just want to ask whether the Minister is prepared to clean up from too long a period of time, or why the Minister has chosen a deadline for the 2011 assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192526	This is, of course, a continuation of the system that has existed so far, and that is where we have put ourselves on this 2011 section. One can be a little free and say that the current government takes responsibility for its own part of this issue. But that does not change the basics of the fact that what the Left and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen says that it should not only be the property valuations where there may be some flaws, which must have a discount, but thus all properties. I do not quite understand the idea of spreading the rebate so widely, and it is quite true that it will of course be quite a lot of money, up against the other side of 10 billion. kr., if necessary, would have to be found in the form of less public investment. I do not think that would be healthy or beneficial.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192633	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192634	But the Minister's answer merely presupposes that the Minister knows where the errors are and if the Minister knew where the errors were, we might as well get them corrected. Well, that's the challenge, that's that it's unidentifiable. There are some indicators where something might be more exposed than anything else, and I can easily understand why Mr. Ole Birk Olesen asks why the government has chosen to lie down, where it has chosen it. But the reality is that the tax minister cannot say where the assessments are going wrong, and that is why, when the government chooses to do only something that affects a few homeowners, there is therefore no answer to them, I think the Minister used the figure above 80%. of the landowners who do not pay tax according to the current assessment. If they have been put at a disadvantage in tax, there is nothing to pick up with this proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192723-2	It is quite true that if you pay after a 2011 assessment, which you have to assume there may be errors in that there is a relative probability that there may be • we are also interested in trying to see whether using this discount system we can take that into account. If you do not pay after a 2011 assessment, but are locked at a much earlier level, the problem is not there, since a flawed 2011 assessment is not the basis for your calculation. And yet the Left is so interested in giving billions of discounts to precisely those groupings. I cannot quite follow the logic of that, but the Left must explain it itself, and they must in particular explain why it is necessary to find up to 11.2 billion. kr. After returning to this area and how they will get it into their financial and economic plans. I may not be able to figure that out, but you have to mess with explaining that yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192829	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192832	As far as refunds are concerned, when we have a new property assessment system, you get money back from the 2011 assessment, and we are some in the bourgeois wing who do not seem to be far enough behind. But what I really want to ask is whether it will also apply to the cooperatives, to the rentals and to the commercial properties whether they will also automatically get it back, or whether they themselves will have to make an effort to get this money back. I very much hope that they will be allowed to get it back automatically, because it will, after all, facilitate the administration something for those who own these homes. So I should also like to ask about the matter of redress: is the Minister prepared to see whether a model can be found for those places where it is obviously wrong? For example, if a house is estimated at 2 million. kr., but just traded for 1 million. kr., should one then be able to say that it is the current trade price for which one has just traded that becomes the current property valuation until one has a new system. Then it is clear that it can be addressed to then, but then at least you are put in a situation where you do not pay too much until the new system comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202192935	In relation to the professional players, it is not automatic in it. And in relation to the precise definition of these professional players, i.e. commercial property etc., I would like to come back with a written answer on how it is precisely defined. Because you have the expectation that professional players will also be able to act in relation to a refund claim, whereas we want to ensure that an automatic refund is made in relation to the individual home owner. That is what has been included in the proposal. What has been proposed is that, in the case of re-evaluations, there should therefore be where, for example, there should be an increase in the number of jobs created. If a property is rebuilt significantly, it will be possible to complain about the actual re-evaluation which may be carried out, as I explained in my previous reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193038	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193042	I think we should have an interest as a public authority, that there should also be automatic reimbursement for professional operators. That will certainly reduce the approach to complaints, I will assess. Because if you say that they all have to call in and complain, there will be many, many more than if you automatically took up the case and said: OK, now we're checking, then you get the money back. So I would also like to hear the tax minister about professional players: it is also a rental property, i.e. those who live in rental houses. They can also be professionals. Then they will not get it back automatically, I understand. And in relation to the right to appeal, to follow up on that part too, I agree that there are the rules that the Minister also mentioned in his speech, in relation to re-evaluations, or if an extension has been made. But my question really went more to the houses that are being traded today, where you can see that the assessment is much higher than what you are dealing with whether you could say instead that it is the trade price that you put in for assessment. Because then you get it fixed in a simple way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193140	With regard to the first, I would like to come back with such a more general review of what it is quite precisely that you can complain about and, if so, when you can do so. Because there will be an opportunity to complain in the long term in any case but just so that we are quite clear on what it is you can and when you can. I therefore agree with the questioner that it is very relevant to have it clarified. The second point I would like to return to is the question of professional players, i.e. exactly how large an association should be, a cooperative association, for example, before it is classified as a professional player. For it is clear that very large housing companies etc. is also to perceive as professional actors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193229	No one else has asked to speak to the Minister. So thank you to the Minister. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193241	Just one comment on the debate that has just taken place: what I think is quite important is that where a private landlord may get money back because too much property value tax has been paid, it is very important to ensure that that money comes out to the tenants and not just comes in the private landlord's own pocket, which one can have a fear of is what will happen. But I took the floor for something quite different. Because in my first speech I referred to the legislative proposal itself, as it stands today, which is a necessity to ensure that we have time to create a new property assessment system. However, I think that the government should consider whether to continue with the principle of the old property assessment, or perhaps to introduce the principle that we know from a part of our neighbouring countries, even from the United States, that the increase in value should be taxed to a greater extent instead of making current taxation. After all, the increase in value when you have a house or a condo is tax-free today, and it is money that you just put in your pocket and then go out and can use for consumption. Perhaps it was much wiser to tax these increases in value when they are realized, not when you have them in your bricks, because what do people have to do to pay when they have the money, if I may say so, standing in what they live in? However, instead of merely a tax-free gain, one should be taxed at the time when one realises an increase in value and it may be in the form of taking up a supplementary loan where one spends the money for consumption or the day one leaves the housing market, for example. when you go to a nursing home and realize a big gain on the house you've had for some years. The view that you make the tax on the increase of value instead of taxing just living we are actually very much in favour of the Enhedslisten. I am also saying this because there have been some comments that we are just in favour of raising the tax on living. Actually, it's not like that. We think it is much more important to tax the money when it is work-free income that is being realized in consumption at some point, so we think the tax should be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193506	Then there is a brief comment from Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193508	Apparently, it sounds very attractive for many to make such a scheme where one is taxed only by profits, but Mr. Frank Aaen conveniently forgets to mention some of the disadvantages that would also be with such a system. Among other things: Maybe people will give money under the table instead. Then profits are less, and that way you can cheat on taxes. Or what about mobility? People have a less interest in moving in connection with work, because then they will have to sell their house and maybe have a potential huge tax bill lying down, and then they may stay. In other words, it is also a disadvantage that must be taken into account in these considerations. Then there's what I think is hardest to get into it: how did Mr. Frank Aaen intended to do something about a transitional arrangement, that is to say, if you had to do it today? Because if you had started all the way from the bottom up and had no tax on property, it was relatively simple to get started, but now we have a property valuation system and you have continuously paid taxes. Or what if you've continually made improvements to the house? It will be a little difficult to introduce such a system now, at least I shall assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193600	The fact that money can be given under the table is, of course, a danger, but there is the advantage of the system I propose that if you officially pay a relatively low sum and then pay a little money under the table, when you sell the house next time, you will be taxed by a much greater increase in value, because you cannot get set against the money under the table. So I think that problem's gonna be okay. On the question of mobility, we have the suggestion that if it is the case that you have a profit that you use to buy a new house, you can take the tax and freeze it in the new house. Because it is true that otherwise it would be very difficult for people to move somewhere else. So I think we can sort of solve the problems. We know it in the cooperative housing market, where you can also obtain deductions for improvements, so the system is not quite new, and in our view it is only the increase in value that should then be taxed. But it is clear that you cannot simply remove the current tax burden because if you simply remove the current tax, you simply grant a huge tax relief to those who are so lucky that they already have a house today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193725	Then a brief comment has been made by Mrs Astrid Krag. Was it a misunderstanding? Astrid Krag Yes). Well, no one else has asked for the floor, and then the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193802	The debate is open. Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202193824	Thank you. This bill, L 79, has been tabled by the Government as part of the Government Finance Act Agreement for 2015 with Enhedslisten and SF. The proposal is, in fact, a very clear example of how we will follow different roads in red and blue blocks. The proposal means that, with the adoption of the bill from day one after obtaining a residence permit, refugees will have full access to early retirement and old age pensions, without, moreover, having to comply with the rules applicable to Danes and also to immigrants, to meet very precise and indeed tough requirements for residence in Denmark. With the proposal, the government by its majority removes the equality that was introduced between refugees, Danes and immigrants by the VK government back in 2010, which means that the law in force is that today you have to meet the same requirement to have lived in Denmark for at least 3 years, from the age of 15 to the age of retirement; and, in addition, the government for refugees removes the requirement to obtain a full pension. Today it is the case that the pension is calculated according to the length of residence in the country. Danish taxpayers can look forward to a modest cost of 13 million for 2015. kr. Over the next ten years, it will rise to 400 million. kr. per years. We find it regrettable that the government has not explained in the draft law how the government also intends to finance the substantial additional expenditure in the longer term. In addition to imposing a large additional cost on Danes, the government is taking another step towards making it more attractive to choose Denmark as an asylum country. If you are well up in the years, then it is obvious to go to a country where you will easily have full access to the pension that a Dane receives as a modest thank you for the many tax dollars he or she has paid through a long working life in Denmark. In the view of the Left, the picture is aggravated by the fact that refugees are also better placed with the proposal than immigrants who come to Denmark to make an effort, are actually doing a job and who pay tax during their stay in Denmark. With the proposal, refugees will also be better placed than Danes who have gone abroad and gained valuable experience in foreign labour markets that they use and that we can benefit from when they return to Danish jobs. The Left does not support the proposal, which in the long term is both very expensive and removes the equivalence of Danes, immigrants and refugees that the former VK government carried out with a bill in 2010.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194117	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194132	Today, draft law L 79 is being discussed, which is amending the law on social pensions for foreigners with a residence permit. The bill is part of the Community Finance Act Agreement for 2015 between the Government, the SF and the Enhedslisten. Basically, the Socialists think it is right for older people, after a long and often hard working life, to have a dignified old age. This is, for example, the foundation of the Danish folk pension. For the people who come to Denmark at a late age, special conditions may apply; in particular refugees from war and strife have not always had the opportunity to bring their earned pension to the country. Some have had a long working life in the country they come from, others may not have, but whatever they need income and a dependency when they are in Denmark. With the current rules, refugees are almost per year. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. As the Social Democrats' rapporteur on foreigners, I think it is important to say that there must of course be a balance in the rules. We must always be wary of whether Denmark is going to develop into a country where social benefits are the main pull patch; at the same time, it is also important that the rules in Denmark are socially fair, fair and do not leave people in poverty. This bill restores the rules, as I said, as they were before 2010. This will mean, in concrete terms, that we equate the period of residence in the country of origin with the period of residence in Denmark for certain foreigners. It is, in fact, a legal situation which, at the time when the rules were amended in 2010, had been in force since 1984, so it has to be said that it was a very long-standing practice that had taken place at that time. This will apply both to the award of an early retirement pension and to the retirement pension, and thus the requirement for a minimum period of residence in Denmark of 3 years can be met even before you come to Denmark. A group of people who arrive in Denmark while the current rules apply will therefore also be entitled to change their calculation and have their pension increased. Thus, we are actually holding hands under some potentially vulnerable people in Denmark, and we will improve around 500 people's situation annually in the short term. I think we can be familiar with this, and from the answers to the hearings it seems, among other things, that the Elder case, too, is very much in favour of it. And, of course, the bill should be seen as a small but good part of a very strong financial law, so the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194420	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194427	Thank you. In spring 2013, there was a motion for a resolution in the House from the Enhedslisten on full folk pensions for refugees. The Socialists voted against. Now exactly the same proposals are being made as legislative proposals. How can it be that in a very short time now the Socialists think it is a good idea to have a full national pension for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194457	In fact, I am very pleased that the government, Enhedslisten and SF have agreed, in the context of a very strong financial agreement, to ensure better conditions for refugees when they go on a national pension in Denmark. In relation to the situation of refugees at that time and up to today, I would like to say that, of course, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, have chosen to secure refugees in the current Financial Act so that they will not have to face a level of poverty that is simply impossible to live on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194539	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194541	It's a zigzag course. Just over a year ago, you voted against it, but now you are putting it forward yourself. The rapporteur will therefore have to inform me of what has happened rather than out of hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194555	It is not out of the question that I am telling you about at the moment, I would say to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. I am reporting on a very strong financial law that actually ensures that a group of people who are vulnerable can now finally have the prospect of having an old age at exactly the same level as other Danish folk pensioners. I think this is fair, I think it is fair, and I think the way we are doing it is decent, so that the 2010 policy that has been in force so far is actually being abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194625	Mrs Tina Nedergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194628	Thank you. After all, this is a very interesting question put by DF's rapporteur, and it might be interesting to have an answer. But maybe we won't get any closer. That is why I am going to deal with something else, and that is why the government has claimed that with the Financial Act it will tighten the rules so that it will not become more attractive to come to Denmark as asylum seekers. Does the rapporteur for the Socialist Group believe that it makes Denmark more attractive as an asylum country or less attractive as an asylum country, that once you have a residence permit, you will immediately have access to a full national pension or a full early retirement pension if necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194716	I noted very well that in his speech on the draft law, the rapporteur of the Left, among other things. talked about the fact that the rules were now changed, so that you can get a pension in the same way as Danish folk pensioners, in itself would be a strong incentive for people who are fleeing war, terror and threat to their own lives. So that just getting to Denmark and getting a retirement pension would be something that was basically emphasised. I simply do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left. And I do not think that the Left rapporteur or, for that matter, the Left at any time has documented a causal link when the Left has toured around the allegations which, among other things, have been made. refugees fleeing to bring themselves and their family to safety are holding a menu where there is a list of different welfare benefits that Denmark can offer. So, no, I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Tina Nedergaard, when she claims that this change will mean that we will see a wave of refugees at a retirement age seeking towards Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194833	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194835	I have nothing at all against being referred to, but vice versa I just think it should be done approximately correctly. That was by no means the choice of words I used. But to me there is no doubt at all that when Denmark receives so relatively many asylum seekers, it is not, of course, because we have made ourselves extremely attractive and have done everything we can to get asylum seekers here, but because asylum seekers are probably, as people are most, thinking carefully about and looking at what opportunities there are for them and their families to have the best possible conditions. That is why I have to ask the rapporteur again, not the opinion of the Left, because I am interested not in hearing the rapporteur's interpretation of the report but in the opinion of the Socialist Group. Do the Socialists think that the proposal makes it more attractive to come to Denmark or less attractive?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194926	Now I shall refrain from quoting the rapporteur of the Left here, but simply reply briefly: I think that when you are on the run, you are on the run from something. Then it is not whether or not a national pension can be obtained in the country in question, which is the determining factor for fleeing to or, by chance, risk ending up. This is not the case, and I do not think that at an earlier stage it has been documented by the Left or Mrs Tina Nedergaard that there is a direct causal link here. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202194957	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195009	The Government and Enhedslisten and the SF are now introducing with the conclusion of the Finance Law Agreement and with this bill full folk pension for refugees. The Enhedslisten had a motion for a resolution, B 93, in the plenary in spring 2013 on this subject. It was about exactly the same as the bill. Only the Enhedslisten voted in favour. Now suddenly there is a red majority. What has happened in the meantime? Now it has suddenly become decent, says Mrs Mette Reissmann. So it wasn't in 2013. We have not yet received an answer as to why. It was the Danish People's Party that, under the bourgeois government, got rid of the positive discrimination against refugees in the area of pensions. Specifically, refugees can again count their residence in the country of origin as earnings for Danish folk pensions, and the agreement applies only to refugees and therefore not to immigrants or foreign dancers who may return to Denmark again. So if a Dane stays abroad for a few years, the Dane loses the right to a full national pension. These rules apply today to refugees too. However, when the government amends the rules, they actually introduce positive discrimination against refugees and, on the other hand, negative discrimination against Danes. The Danes must therefore again be discriminated against in their own country, and I think this is quite unfortunate, and therefore the Danish People's Party will work to roll back the government's decision if the opportunity arises. We know that so-called asylum shopping is already taking place, asylum seekers are looking for places where they have the best conditions. Whether this will be important in relation to it is, of course, difficult to assess, but it cannot be ruled out that, when it is rumored that pension rules have been changed, we as a country have become an even bigger asylum magnet than we were before. But basically we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is incomprehensible that outsiders should be better off. This part of the Finance Act sends the unfortunate signal that our own are second to none, and we cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195224	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195227	Now you cannot choose to become a refugee and get refugee status in Denmark. Well, it's crazy to argue like that. But my question is: does the Danish People's Party agree that other groups covered by the rules on fractional pensions should have a full pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195246	Now this bill is about full retirement for refugees. We're gonna have to go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195255	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195257	When one says that the problem with this is that there is discrimination for some people, then one must also have considered whether all the other groups in Denmark, who receive only a fraction of the old-age pension, should have a full national pension. It's part of such a debate as this one, and if you can't answer it, yes, that's the way it is. But it only shows how superficial a speech it really was.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195330	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195331	Whether I am superficial or whether it is the rapporteur who is, it must be up to the listeners to assess. I'm just applying to the bill, which is about giving a full national pension to refugees. And then I would like to refer to the legal notes which state that the requirement for 3 years' residence here in the kingdom before the retirement age may already be met on arrival in Denmark. This is an absurd situation, and I cannot understand why the Enhedslisten can support such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195401	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195408	Thank you. Refugees must be treated just as well as other people in Denmark when they once retire. Therefore, refugees must be given the opportunity to get a full national pension again. That's how it used to be until the VKO changed the terms of 2010. I am radically pleased that we in the government, together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, agree to ensure better conditions for refugees and roll back the deteriorations that VKO made. The pension is earned according to the number of years of residence in Denmark and, on the basis of the proposal, refugees are again credited with the number of years of residence in the country of origin, as they were previously given. Unlike Danes and other foreigners, refugees do not have the opportunity to obtain supplementary pensions from their country of origin. Other foreigners and Danes will normally have chosen to move to Denmark or work in other countries, and they will usually have earned pension rights for the years when they have not lived in Denmark. But that is not the situation for refugees. With this proposal, we are putting it on an equal footing, and that is why the Radical Left would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195530	There are a few brief comments, first Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195534	Thank you. I find it interesting that the rapporteur says that refugees should have the same conditions as Danes, but that is not the case here. So, refugees who come to Denmark and get a stay now get easier access to early retirement and folk pensions than Danes have and than other immigrants have. But let it be that there is legitimate enough argument for that part of the bill as such, so don't worry about it. Mrs Lotte Rod believes that this is a good proposal, so the rapporteur cannot lift the lid for where the 400 million. kr., which this proposal will cost when it is fully phased in, should be taken over?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195614	After all, this is part of our draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195620	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195622	That's what it doesn't do. Nor is it apparent from the draft law where the 400 million will be taken from it. We cannot predict this yet, because we do not actually know what flows of refugees are coming into the country. So I have to ask again: how does the Radical Left feel about financing the 400 million? kr.? Should it be other pensioners who have to be cut back on, or should it be taxes that have to be paid? In other words, will the radical rapporteur not try to reveal in such a way how the proposal is to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195659	This is fully funded in our financial bill proposal. And what is the pleasure of negotiating finance law is that it is not only a question of opening one can and moving some money into another can, but also a question of the overall financial law being linked together and so does it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195718	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195722	In 2013, there was a resolution from the Enhedslisten on the same subject, full folk pension for refugees. The Radical Left voted against. Today they vote in favour. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195740	For now we have found the money with Enhedslisten and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195745	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195747	So it's all about money for the Radicals. One was in government last, in 2013. You couldn't find any money there. What happened? Mrs Mette Reissmann speaks of decency today, in 2013 she was not decent. In 2013, the Radicals had no money, now they have suddenly found some money. The rapporteur will have to explain this to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195813	No, I didn't say that. But it is the case that when you table a motion for a resolution, you can think as a government that there is some sense in it, work on it and then actually get through with it in a later debate. And that is what has happened here, namely that in the Finance Act negotiations, together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, we have agreed that this is a good idea, and then we have financed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195841	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202195851	The SF, together with the rest of the opposition then and a broad field of NGOs and professional experts, was very concerned and critical when the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party in 2010, carried out what we consider to be quite unreasonable tightening of refugee earnings for the right to a folk pension. There was a lot going on up through the 00s, but the fact that one chose to hit a small and very vulnerable group so hard that they could not get a proper folk pension was in SF's eyes just another low point for the then government. And this underlines what my colleague Mrs Tina Nedergaard said earlier in the debate, namely that we want something fundamentally different. We also found it particularly worrying at the time that, according to the rules, among other things. The Institute for Human Rights balanced at the edge of a breach of the Refugee Convention and other international human rights conventions. I am therefore sincerely pleased with the proposal before us to reinstate the previous rules on the acquisition of the right to a full national pension for refugees. It is only fair that the period of residence of refugees in the original country of origin should be taken into account when assessing their entitlement to a pension. Refugees are per year. definition of people on the run. They have not chosen where they want to live, they are people who have not had the opportunity to organise the economic framework of their old age, and if they have, then it has in all likelihood been split to pieces when they had to flee. That is why I am pleased that we, together with the Enhedslisten and the government, have made a choice, a choice of fairness and humanity, also for the refugees who are going to grow old in Denmark. They must not, as the situation now stands, live almost with certainty an old age in poverty. I am pleased that we have concluded a financial agreement where there is also room to secure an economic foundation for refugees, so that it is actually possible for them to live in Denmark and live dignifiedly. In other words, this is a bill for us to see not only a distribution policy approach, it is also a value policy approach. It is basically about human dignity, equality and community, and the SF therefore wholeheartedly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200051	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200055	The President sounds very tired, and I am gradually doing so, but I will try again. In 2013, the Enhedslisten had a motion for a resolution on exactly the same thing that we are discussing today. The rapporteur said that she wanted something else and that it was about dignity, but the SF voted against the Enhedslisten resolution. Wasn't the SF worthy at the time? Wouldn't you want something else at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200131	Thank you. I had the impression that the rapporteur would ask that particular question. Yes, it was SF who did it, but this type of discussion, this type of decision, is something you can do in a negotiation, and I am really glad that we have made it together with the government and Enhedslisten as part of our joint financial agreement for 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200148	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200150	It is fantastic that you cannot get a proper answer to your questions. Now I have tried with the Socialists, with the Radicals and now also with the SF, and that is the same chatter. There must soon be a proper answer as to why, just over a year ago, we could vote against something and then a year later we could say yes to exactly the same thing. Have we become more worthy during the period that has been? I need to get a proper explanation for this. I actually think I'm asking some nice questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200223	I would like to confirm that the rapporteur is asking some nice questions, but if the nice and good answer is only one that the rapporteur can agree with, then unfortunately I cannot deliver it. In fact, I believe that we are all in favour of the policy that we also stood for in 2013, but this type of political decision is something that is being taken in a debate, and I, as the SF rapporteur, am very pleased that we have taken the decision in the joint financial law agreement we have made with the government and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200248	Mrs Tina Nedergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200250	I understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking a little bit about this, because what probably provokes us a tiny bit and which puzzles us is that one can fundamentally change one's attitude in a few years because one sits down at a new negotiating table. I just want to say that we have all experienced this. It is quite natural that this should happen, but then it would only suit the SF rapporteur and, incidentally, the other rapporteurs to say that they did not consider it so important when the three parties sat in government and made the Finance Act for 2013 or for that matter for 2014 to include it then. What is really the situation is that you have changed your mind or found some money that you think you can use now, namely 13 million. kr. in 2015. But if that is not the case, it must be the merit of the Enhedslisten alone that the proposal has come through with these financial law negotiations, for the three parties which, moreover, are behind the Radical Left, the Social Democrats and the SF, all three parties have voted against the proposal in the past. Only Enhedslisten has stood firm on the point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200353	The rapporteur is in his right to speak freely about what the rapporteur might think of this. I do not believe that we have changed our position, nor do I believe that the parties with which we have concluded this joint agreement have done so. Since 2011 and the elections, when, fortunately, government power changed, we have taken a bit by bit of the things that have been possible with the economy that has been in Denmark and changed some of the very great differences in value policy and distribution policy that the previous government has faced. In the autumn of 2014, we have concluded a financial law agreement which also allows us now to reinstate the right of refugees to receive a full national pension. I am very pleased about this, both because it is important in terms of distribution policy and because it is important in terms of value that we actually recognise that citizens living in Denmark have the right to a full national pension and should not live an old age in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200447	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200449	Otherwise, when you were in government with the other two parties that helped to vote down the Enhedslisten's proposal, you were concerned about what this proposal would cost. What is characteristic of this proposal, which knows so much else that comes through in this budget law, is that the first year after the change comes, it is quite modest. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is 13 million. kr. You have to be a pretty bad finance minister in order not to find them in a drawer somewhere. The President will be able to confirm this. 13 million kr. you can always find. The challenge will be to find the 400 million. kr., when the scheme is fully phased in. I would like to ask the SF: by whom and how will the proposal be financed in the longer term?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200532	With all due respect to Mrs Tina Nedergaard, I do not think that exactly the Left Party has anything to let anyone hear when it comes to managing state finances responsibly. Having said that, I would like to say that perhaps there is the fundamental difference that we actually regard as equal citizens those who have refugee status and who must grow old in this country. That is why it is basically about how to secure a retirement pension for the citizens who are in this country during the period when they are entitled to such a pension. That's what this is about. It is not because we are going to find special money for special groups of pensioners. We would like to find money for the national pension that we believe in as a fundamental right to apply to those refugees who are recognised as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200611	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202200622	It is high time that refugees regain the right to a full national pension. The Enhedslisten will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. We have been working for this for a very long time, and there are some parties that have helped us bring it forward today, and we are, of course, pleased about that. When a majority of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance rushed through a bill in November and December 2010, which introduced a fractional pension for refugees, it was a legislative measure that struck with surgical precision one of the groups of people in our society who had an extremely difficult life. We are dealing with people who have had to leave their home, their country because they were persecuted. They have had to leave their homeland because they could not stay there anymore. It goes without saying that, should they have had pension savings, they have not managed to take it out of the country during the flight. Many fled from what they own and have had to sell everything they might own, to afford to escape at all. Nevertheless, the VKO and the Liberal Alliance decided in 2010 that refugees should spend their last years on cash assistance or perhaps the so-called start-up aid, which we fortunately abolished in 2012. The then government devoted so little time to consultation in 2010 that most organisations did not have a chance to react before the law was passed, but during the committee procedure it succeeded in insisting that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, should be consulted. They simply considered that the amendments to the law to deprive refugees of the right to a full national pension did not meet the requirements of the 1951 Refugee Convention, since they did not take sufficient account of the specific situation of the refugees and lead to unequal treatment and unequal rights to social security, as laid down in the agreement. It is therefore contrary to the principle of non-discriminatory legislation. However, the UN's clear judgment that the bill was discriminatory and did not meet the requirements of the Refugee Convention did not make it possible for the VKO and the Liberal Alliance to retain the right of refugees to a full national pension. Now, as we said at the beginning, a majority in the Folketing is reintroducing this right, and it is high time. In fact, it is quite incomprehensible that more than three years should pass after the 2011 parliamentary elections, because during the 2010 parliamentary debate, the rapporteurs from both the current government parties, both ministers today, and from the SF and the Enhedslisten, spoke in very sharp terms against the bill. This case is one that should have been settled when, in the spring of 2012, as has also been mentioned in the debate, the so-called poverty benefit was brought to an end. The fractional pension for refugees is part of the same problem complex, namely that the previous government wanted to maintain some of society's most vulnerable in poverty. We are therefore very pleased to say, from the point of view of our rapporteur, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, that we can now deal with the wrong that was committed at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201009	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201024	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance voted to change the rules back in 2010. We voted no to allow the rules to return in 2013, and we intend to do so in 2014. I would say that we have therefore voted on the same substance every time this proposal has been discussed. During the debate on the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in 2013, the rapporteurs from both the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Radicals and the then Minister Karen Hækkerup mentioned that this was a sympathetic proposal, but that it was not the economy. It can be said that both of these considerations still apply. This may be a very sympathetic proposal, but you do not have the economy to do so. It is a proposal in a Finance Act that delivers a slumping deficit in the coming year. Then I would like to say a few words about some of the remarks made by Mr Seligman. Frank Aaen came with me. There was the question of whether there will be discrimination between refugees and residents. In any case, we have noted that the first time this proposal was considered, a reply to Question 511 of 26 November 2010 was asked by Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen to be known by the then Minister for Integration, Birthe Rønn Hornbech, that this was not the case. During the debate on the Enhedslisten resolution of 25 May 2013, the then rapporteur of the Social Democrats, Mrs Maja Panduro, who is now the political rapporteur of the Socialists, said that this was not the case and she was pleased to have confirmed that this was the case. I can say that we are fully in line with the assessment of the then government and of the current Social Democrat political rapporteur on that issue. The Liberal Alliance welcomes the fact that, if these rules had been retained, there would still be a substitute for the refugees who come to the country and, as the then Minister of Justice Karen Hækkerup also explained during the discussion of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in 2013, if there are particular economic challenges, there is the possibility of additional support of different kinds in relation to grants and the like. The Liberal Alliance will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201300	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201303	It is just the brief remark that I will probably be a little cautious in referring to the interpretation of a convention by a minister who later had to resign because the minister concerned could not figure out how to interpret conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201321	You can have a lot of opinions about that. This was confirmed by the later government, as I understand Mr. Frank Aaen's party supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201327	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201330	So I was not the one who referred to the former minister, who came so unlucky in interpreting conventions, and that is why I think we should be a little reluctant to use it as a witness of truth. I would not do that if I were the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201346	You can make such comparisons in the category of platheds that I think you hear here. The fact is that it has been established by two successive governments, including a government which has some similarity with the one in office, that this is the way I explained, and I shall then refer to the answers we have received from the two governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201406	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201414	Thank you. As the Conservative rapporteur, Mai Mercado, unfortunately cannot be here tonight, I have promised to read her speech. Today, the right to social pensions for foreigners is, as a rule, conditional on the recipient having a link with Denmark, and we welcome that. With the Finance Act, the Government has decided to change the rules for the acquisition of social pensions for foreigners, which total costs 170 million. kr. in the long term, and it is precisely this bill that we are discussing today. In the Conservative People's Party, we continue to be concerned that people who receive social pensions also have a link with the country, and it seems incomprehensible to us that if you come to the country, you can receive a full retirement pension or early retirement on an equal footing with all the Danes who have worn out the right to receive a pension through a lifetime in the labour market where they have contributed to the welfare society. That is why we are voting against the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201507	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201525	I would like to thank you for your comments. The bill is part of the implementation of the government's agreement on the 2015 Finance Act, which several people have mentioned. With the bill, all refugees with a residence permit in Denmark under Section 7 or 8 of the Aliens' Act will again be entitled to a full national pension. The pension is earned according to the number of years of residence in Denmark and, on the proposal, refugees are again credited to the number of years of residence in the country of origin, as they were given earlier. The proposal guarantees refugees a more equal treatment with other citizens in Denmark, as refugees cannot be assumed to have supplementary pensions from their country of origin. In conclusion, I would also like to thank the Danish Parliament for its willingness to deal with this bill and, of course, I look forward to the work of the committee as usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201617	There is a brief comment from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201619	Thank you. I just need to ask why the government in its time voted against the Enhedslisten proposal, which would have exactly the same purpose as the bill now being tabled by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201631	I am delighted that Mrs Tina Nedergaard has come before Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, who had the button pressed before; it was a completely identical question. I don't see anything awkward about there being some movement, that's not the first time it's happened. All political negotiations and actions must always be seen in a particular context in a particular situation, and so must this. So I really don't see anything awkward about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201658	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201659	Thank you. Then I would like to turn to a slightly different question, because I suspect that when you choose to do so with the last financial law in a parliamentary term, it is because the first year of the legislative proposal has an effect, the additional cost is modest 13 million. kr., but it grows dramatically and really fast. So you can say that it's a little cheap for the government to eat the Enhedslisten off with it, it's the last call before a parliamentary election, and say: OK, the 13 million. kr. Let's go. But the government must also have been concerned that the amount will rise to over 400 million. kr. over the coming years. What does the government think about how to finance it? Is it other welfare benefits that have to be reduced accordingly, or should taxes be increased accordingly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201752	I think it is a very, very common suspicion, as Mrs Tina Nedergaard raises, in terms of eating some of it. Well, we don't eat any of them. We have some sensible negotiations, which we have also had in the past with the Left, when we negotiated the Finance Act with the Left, and with others, and there we have not eaten anything at all. After all, this is about serious negotiations. Moreover, the costs associated with the reintroduction, as was said a number of times, are fully financed by the Agreement on the Finance Act for 2015. Expenditure shall be incurred within the framework of the expenditure ceilings for 2015-18 and in the following period expenditure shall be incurred within the overall expenditure framework of the Government's medium-term projection. So, as has been said a number of times by other rapporteurs, it is fully funded. But I don't recognize that horrible suspicion at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201848	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201853	I would just like the Minister to confirm that it is still the government's opinion that, despite any disagreements on the proposal, the current legislation is also within the framework of the UN Convention on Equal Treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202201906	In other words, I am quite sure that the legislation that we are implementing is, of course, within the framework of the UN Convention, that is clear. But with this, we have to remember that, and I think that is somewhat forgotten with the questions that come, whether or not you have changed your position, and what has happened to the middle bills, this is also equal treatment for the people who come to Denmark. I think it was the SF's rapporteur who spoke about this, but economic poverty, as I interpret it, can lead to social poverty and to a group of people who are so vulnerable at risk of becoming even more vulnerable because of the economy. We're gonna make that right with this, and I'm actually really proud of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202000	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202003	I have full respect for the fact that the Minister represents a view that is different from ours. But I'm glad to have the factual confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202013	The minister, no more comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202016	No. It was just a receipt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202018	Then no one else has asked for the floor. I thank the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202036	L 78). The debate is open. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202118	Thank you, President. Yeah, that's a nice long title. The proposal we are considering here is aimed at introducing a social subsidy for upper secondary education in the light of the proportion of apostate pupils. In the future, the social subsidy involves the redistribution of funds from institutions with a relatively low proportion of apostate pupils to institutions with a relatively high proportion of apostate pupils, giving institutions with a high proportion of apostate pupils the economy to take additional action against the dropout. At least that's the intention of the bill. We in the Left recognise that efforts must be made for students threatened with apostasy, and that is what is actually being done today. Many institutions are working with mentors, psychologists, social workers and homework workers, and this is an effort that we in the Left hope will also continue after the adoption of this bill. In the Left, we recognize, like the government, that there is a clear link between the level with which a student begins an education and the likelihood of completion. Therefore, we would rather reward institutions by how good they are at raising all pupils professionally, because that is basically what this is all about. In the Left, we are concerned that this proposal does not promote a wrong incentive structure. The focus should be on raising students as much as possible in terms of learning and not on optimising a student composition in order to obtain a larger financial contribution. In the Left, we are also concerned that the social taximeter will be financed by reducing the teaching taximeter by 2%. also in vocational education and training, including the basic course of eud. In the Left, we assumed that we had a mutual understanding that we should be quiet enough to run our joint reform process. But the Left also reaches out to cooperation to review the entire taximeter area. We believe that instead of finding a solution, we should rethink the whole area together and find together the best solutions that will help all young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Halsboe-Jørgensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202348	Thank you. We have youth education institutions all over the country, which together carry out the very important task of educating Denmark's youth. It is an important and potentially very profitable task to make our young people more skilled. However, education institutions do not have the same role to play throughout the country. There are some who have a group of pupils who come from resourceful, well-educated homes and who have easier access to youth education, and then there are some institutions that have a higher composition of pupils, where there is a risk that each of them will fall away. I am very pleased that with the proposal today we are doing something that the government has wanted to do for a long time: to redistribute more fairly between the various upper secondary educations, so that the schools that lift the greatest social responsibility in relation to apostate pupils also get a little extra for the effort that may be made for mentors or other. There are very good examples around the country. I am very pleased that with this proposal we are giving an economic boost so that more of those initiatives can become reality, and thus we can get closer to the goal that as many young people as possible should have an education. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202509	There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202513	Thank you. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that in the social taximeter, in the form it ended up having, there is no causal link between the way in which funds are allocated and the social background of pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202531	But so do I. We have looked at a number of variables, of course, both whether the parents have an educational background, but also a large number of other social variables and what the results showed was largely similar: if you looked at how the student had made it to graduation from the primary school, then it was very, very sad indeed, and I think that in reality it was a very clear expression of all the other variables. So that way and from the simple model we have made, there are in fact a whole range of other factors behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202611	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202614	Now there was a very long answer. But that does not change what I was just talking about, that is, that there is no causality, no clear connection, between the way in which funds are allocated and the social background of pupils. Because you have chosen not to measure that. That's completely evident, because that's what the bill says. So how does the rapporteur actually feel about standing here and talking about a social taximeter that actually does not relate at all to the social background of pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202647	But it was the same question as in the first place, so the answer will also be very much the same, namely that the model that has been knitted together largely takes into account what the students are coming with. It looks at grades, but behind it we can see that no matter which of the other factors we had looked at to cover the social background, it would have been the same group of young people who had ended up in the group called apostasy. And I sincerely believe that I am sorry that this is the case. For at this time it should have been the case in Denmark that it is not how rich your parents are or what background you have that determines which grades you get. But unfortunately, we are still gone, and that is why I think this bill is going in a clear right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202735	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202740	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The funds used for this are, after all, taken from the so-called educational taximeter. It is a taximeter which the institutions already have today, among other things. use for mentors, for homework help, for social workers and for psychologists in order to keep a group of students who have run into something they cannot handle themselves and who need some help so that they can continue their studies. After all, not all students are challenged at the beginning of the study, as this model suggests. There may also be students who, during the course of the study, experience anorexia or a death in the close family, which makes you get a little whined out of it and need some support. But that money is, of course, some that the institutions have taken from the teaching taximeter in the past. Now you go out and save on them to make a geographical redistribution. What response does the rapporteur have to those students who may come from a good high school, a safe and secure family background, but who will have some challenges in the course of their studies? Should they just fall away, or should they move somewhere else where there is a chance to get support?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202848	We redistribute geographically, but we also redistribute to a particular extent socially compared with the group of apostate students. And I think that is quite right, because we can see that there is a very special group that requires a little extra to get through, and we all have an interest in them getting through. That is why I think it is very sensible to distribute the money more fairly in this context. This does not mean that the other students can no longer be helped. I myself am very pleased that the proposal for an adjustment of the high schools that we presented yesterday has a great deal of focus on measuring whether the students are well and, in fact, it is also invested in the fact that the students must have regular conversations so that they can follow their development. So I think it's a very relevant debate about focusing on the fact that all students are thriving and getting through. At the same time, however, I think it makes sense to distribute some money socially fairly when we can see that there is a group that is a little harder to get through. It takes a little extra, and the schools that do it must also have the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202944	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202202947	I believe that the Social Democrat rapporteur can do something that I cannot do. Because the rapporteur wants to spend the money twice. Hopefully, the rapporteur is aware that with the bill from the government, you go out and shave 2%. I would like an answer to that in the run-up to Christmas. The 2%. After all, schools cannot continue to use to create retention initiatives for students who will have a challenge in the course of their studies. For that money is not there • they have the government and the rapporteur's party removed and put somewhere else. What's the young girl who gets anorexia in the middle of the studio gonna do now? What initiatives will help to maintain her? After all, the rapporteur has removed the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203035	The rapporteur has not removed the money. What the government proposal is proposing is a redistribution of a bag of money which I think today is unfairly distributed in relation to the task facing schools. You can turn it around and say that if you don't want to do this redistribution, it might be that the girl who was hit by anorexia might not be able to get any help. Besides, if she is affected by anorexia, she needs some help in our healthcare system and there is still massive investment with the Finance Act. However, young people who are currently attending schools with many apostate pupils do not, in some cases, receive the necessary help because schools do not have the money. There I think it makes sense to make a more socially equitable distribution, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203118	Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203123	Thank you. I have one question for the rapporteur in order to follow up on the question which Mr. Peter Juel Jensen just asked: can the rapporteur tell me how the schools today spend the money they get for the educational taximeter? Does all the money that you get for the education taximeter go to teaching, or do some of them also go to advertising? Do some of them go to things we don't even know?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203151	After all, it is politically decided to make them self-serving institutions, and that means that money is being spent on things that are not politically decided, such as. advertising.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203159	Mrs. Rosa Lund. That's it? Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203209	The bill is about social subsidies, that is. social taximeter. The aim of the proposal is to reduce apostasy in youth education, and we can only welcome this. But the way it is done cannot be supported and, in order to understand the background to this, I would just like to say a few words about the taximeter system. In the Danish education system, the educational institutions receive money per year. student, and in its pure form it is a good arrangement. It is simple, it is the basis of self-determination and decentralization, and then it makes the institutions financially responsible. In youth education, the taximeters consist of a wide range of different taximeters, and the problem children here are the incentive taximeters such as: the Internationalisation Staximeter and the completion Staximeter. They force a certain behavior. For example, the completion rate means that you get money for students who finish. In the universities, the meter is only a completion meter of which the major problems with it. In upper secondary education, however, this meter takes up only a quarter. The taximeter system in its pure form is good enough, but DF wants to get rid of the incentive taximeters because they distort the system. We will therefore have looked at the system in the seams. It is surprising that the government is putting forward the bill, because the terms of reference for the analysis of the youth education area include simplification and reorganization of the taximeter structure and whether it can contribute to more appropriate training behaviour. Why on earth do you start a social taximeter before the analysis is completed next year? The Minister may answer that question. The social taximeter is an incentive taximeter: more money will be given to educational institutions with many students who are apostate and they must be taken from those educational institutions where there are not so many. It will be the total number of apostate pupils who trigger the grant, not the individual pupil, and it will be the grades of the primary school that determine which pupils are apostate. To this extent, it is true that the primary school grades show who is apostate. For example, the think tank DEA has. If you have an incision of 2, there is a 40% risk of falling out of high school, while the figure is only 10%. by a cut of 7. The aim of the draft law is for the institutions to receive more money from the social taximeter for interventions against apostate students. It is noble, and it is noble, but an intricate system is made even more complicated and another incentive taximeter is introduced. It is financed by changing the teaching taximeter. It is, of course, a good thing that the vocational schools receive a little more money because they have a lot of apostasy. What will the Danish People's Party do then? Instead, we propose an increased basic subsidy for institutions with social challenges. There is already a basic subsidy for rural institutions. It's a tested system. Gymnasiums, for example, have... It is quite normal that some schools have more to do with than others, for example in the municipalities. small village schools or schools in socially disadvantaged neighborhoods. I would just like to emphasise that this must be done as a redistribution within the sector. It's not new money. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister is very happy to answer whether she thinks it is okay not to send the bill to a hearing. In our view, it is under all criticism. The Danish People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203606	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203614	We need to get better at creating pattern wrestlers. It starts already in the nursery and in kindergarten, which is why I am very pleased that we are now placing 750 million together with Enhedslisten and SF. kr. extra a year for our day care institutions. But that does not change the fact that youth education also has an important task to undertake, and that is why, with this bill, we are introducing a social taximeter on youth education by providing an extra subsidy to the educational institutions which promise and have a special role. The grant is given on the basis of the proportion of apostate students. It has been important for us in the Radical Left that this should not be done on the basis of individual pupils, but on the basis of the institution's student group as a whole. It is precisely to avoid what the Danish People's Party is concerned about. In fact, when we went into this work, it was also important to me that it should not just be on the basis of grades, because grades aren't everything. The more frightening it was, in fact, that the people in the Ministry of Education ended up finding that the students' grades in the 9th grade actually reflect the parents' background and their level of education. I really find it frightening that there is such a strong connection between parents' background and students' grades. It says something about how much work we have ahead of us in getting better at creating social mobility in primary school, and in parentheses it also shows how important it is that we do not slam the door in the face of high school pupils with a high quality requirement. For then we will not succeed in breaking the negative social legacy at all. But we only have to use the grades as a yardstick as long as they are the best instrument. My vision for the new primary school is that we must succeed in challenging and lifting the weakest pupils as well. So we could have as a common goal that grades can no longer explain everything and that in the long term a social taximeter will not be needed at all because we have solved the task in the past. The Radical Left is happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203836	There are two brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203842	Thank you to the rapporteur. What evidence does the rapporteur have that this is going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203850	What we're doing with this bill is giving the schools that promise and have a special role extra money to do it. That means they can do the things they think work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203905	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203909	One might almost be tempted to ask the question again. I would just like to make sure that the rapporteur heard my question. I asked the question: What evidence is there? How does the rapporteur know this is working? Because if it's just a matter of pouring extra resources into something, then we could do a lot better everywhere by just throwing some more money in that direction. Is the rapporteur convinced that the efforts being made at individual schools and institutions are only linked to the amount of resources allocated? For then we could have had better primary school reform and better vocational school reform by spending considerably more money. I'm looking for evidence. What evidence does the rapporteur have that a social taximeter will help apostate students?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202203957	I do not believe that it is only a question of money that the rapporteur of the Left asks. But I believe that it is also a question of money, because it costs something to have mentors employed; it costs something to make a special effort. That's why it's not for me a question of looking in all sorts of reports to find a place where it says it's supposed to be a social taximeter just like this. This is something more fundamental: a question of saying that there are some educational institutions that are more committed than others because they have more apostate students. Therefore, it makes good sense for us to move some money from some institutions that do not have very many apostasy-safe lives to some institutions where there are many apostate students. After all, it is they who have the cost of hiring mentors or introducing other special measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204046	Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204050	The rapporteur very graphically describes this with the anguish of the ministry over there finding some parameters that could be measured. And finding these social conditions that could be measured, which were really the intention, has certainly also been a roaring problem. Then it was discovered that it was too much trouble, but what could be measured at least was the grades: we have them, we can look them up, they are inside a database, and we can find them. The rapporteur then says: well, there can often be a coincidence between poor social conditions and poor grades. But now the rapporteur has gone to school for a long time and at university and everything, and then the rapporteur knows that there is a difference between causality and coincidence, that is to say that something leads to something else, or that it just happens at the same time. So how on earth can one move from an intention to measure social conditions to reward educational establishments to take up many students who have poor grades?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204158	In fact, I do not think it was the people of the Ministry who were in anguish, I think it was me as a politician who had anguish, because I thought it was actually quite difficult that what they came up with was that when you put different factors into the model, that is, when you looked at grades, on the parents' background, on their education, on their social status, all the other things could explain nothing other than what the characters can explain. It says that we have not succeeded in breaking the negative social legacy of primary school, because we can read in the grades which educational background parents provide. And that's the kind of thing I just had to swallow as a radical because I have a belief that grades aren't everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204240	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204243	I can hear that, despite his long education, the rapporteur did not actually understand my question. Then I must ask the rapporteur to go home and look it up, i.e. this coincidence and causality, because it is not the same. It is just that these are two different things, and it is not the case that because you have bad social conditions you necessarily get bad grades. That's not how it works. But let me ask you a little differently: what will the rapporteur say if the rapporteur meets a politician from Singapore or England and has to explain to him that we in Denmark are rewarding places of education which include particularly many pupils with poor grades? How is the rapporteur going to justify or explain such an exercise, which can seem completely baroque internationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204325	For me, it is not necessarily a question of rewarding some institutions. For me, it's much more low-practical. There are some youth education courses in Denmark which carry out a greater task in terms of breaking social inheritance than others, because they just have a different group of students who require that you do something special, for example. in the form of mentors. It costs something to make a special effort, and therefore it makes sense to say that the educational institutions which perform an easier task can do without a little of their money in favour of there being funds in those educational institutions which undertake a greater task in terms of breaking the negative legacy, so that they can actually afford to be able to do some of the measures that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204412	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204422	SF sees the social meter as a central step on the way to creating a more equal education system in this case in youth education. Free and equal access to education and equal opportunities to take the training you want is a fundamental element of SF's policy. The social taximeter is both a model for sensible economic redistribution and recognition of the diversity of pupils. And it is a recognition that some schools are particularly struggling to carry out the difficult task of getting all young people on the training car. That is why we think it is sensible to introduce a model that redistributes economically between youth education, so that those who have the least challenges give to those who have more challenges. We really think this is a very good policy. In Denmark we have developed and are still developing on the youth education system, which must be for everyone. And I guess in this Chamber we all agree to work for at least 95 per cent. of a youth year must take a youth education course. We're on our way, but there's a little more to go. A youth year is not a uniform mass that we can stuff into one big box. A youth year is a wonderful and diverse mix of young people from many different social, economic and cultural groups. They have different backgrounds, assumptions and needs. That means, among other things, that some people have a little harder to do this school than others do. It is especially young people from foreign educational homes who may find it difficult to adjust to an upper secondary education and break the code for how to do it. There are all kinds of reasons for this. But the fact is that there is a group of young people who are more likely to fall out of upper secondary education than others have the so-called apostasy. That's a good Christiansborg expression. We believe that as politicians we are responsible for helping. We know that many schools, managers and teachers are making great and committed efforts to sustain young people, especially those who are apostate. Many young people break through the social glass ceilings and complete both upper secondary and higher education. Education is an important road to social mobility. Social mobility contributes to equality. In the SF's view, Denmark needs both model breakers, social mobility and equality, and we therefore welcome policy measures which will also strengthen the contribution of youth education to promoting social mobility and creating model breakers. For youth education should also help to strengthen young people's ability to come into a life situation where they really have a freer choice than their social heritage could indicate. And they do! But the dedicated schools, leaders and teachers need more. For good efforts to maintain young people in youth education are not free of charge, and so I look forward very much to seeing what the institutions out there will do to spend the social taximeter money on. This doesn't mean that it doesn't matter what they are spent on, at all, but in SF we actually believe that the schools are the ones who know best what efforts work for their apostate students, and that is why the schools themselves must, of course, help determine how they spend the money. But as a responsible politician, I want to be sure that all the money actually goes to projects, initiatives and initiatives that benefit apostate students. And we want to know what works, that means what it is that makes fewer students drop out. It is a knowledge that we as a society need if our children and young people are to become the best educated generation ever. I would therefore urge the Minister to make it clear that the planned analysis and evaluation of the social taximeter document what efforts and, above all, what effects the taximeter has contributed to creating and that it is also added that we are actually monitoring this on an ongoing basis. We owe this to the institutions that have handed over money to the social meter, but it also gives us a knowledge of how to work with apostasy and apostasy students forward-looking. And then I think it is only fair that the parties to the agreement should be involved in that follow-up. In conclusion, the social taximeter, together with an improved high school, is in fact a very big step towards strengthening social mobility in the Danish education system. We did an excellent vocational training reform last winter, and we hope that we will now be able to carry out both social taximeters and improved secondary education this winter. We think that the government's high school initiative is being said in parentheses, as my colleague Mrs Lotte Rod did, too, contains a number of good elements on that front, and we are pleased about that. In relation to this proposal for a social taximeter, we would, of course, have liked to see a bigger cake to distribute. That is not the reality, but now we actually have the mechanism, we have the tool, the basic principle, and then we can always look at whether our economy in the country is ever getting better, so that more money can also be poured into it. But basically, we are very positive and support taking this important step in introducing a principle of redistributing to the institutions that have the greatest challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204908	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204912	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur for the SF recognises that there will be young people who, at the end of primary school, are not given the term 'apostasy', but who will be apostasy during their studies in high school or vocational school. There are no means of doing so. How will SF help the students who become apostate in the course of their youth education? Where are the means to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202204946	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Peter Juel Jensen asks that question, because it is actually one of the things that we bring to the negotiating table when we are going to discuss the servicing of high school • what is about the well-being of high school students. That is where we have to discuss it; it is perhaps more relevant than taking it right here in the Chamber this evening. But I look forward to taking the discussion, including with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205003	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205006	It helps all the students who attend a vocational school to look at the high schools. But I am not going to ask that as a question, of course you can consider it afterwards. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur for the SF agrees with the radical rapporteur that, with this action, the government, SF and Enhedslisten have actually put the social heritage into the grave. That is actually what the rapporteur of the Radicals said. Can it be done so easily • 200 million. kr., and we're not gonna talk more about the social heritage? In the Left, we don't think it's that easy. But does the rapporteur for the SF agree with the radical rapporteur in that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205050	Thank you. If that is what the radical rapporteur said, then the SF is, in the specific case, a little closer to the view of the Left, i.e. that it is not done alone with 200 million. kr. However, I am not sure that is what the radical rapporteur said. I would just like to make a comment on this remark made by Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen on vocational training. He is quite right that what we do in high school does not affect the apostasy of vocational training. But together we made an excellent vocational training reform and reached an agreement in February this year on how to improve quality and also ensure lower drop-outs on vocational training. One of the things we have put in that agreement is that we have to keep monitoring, that we are actually doing what we want to do. And if it turns out that nothing is happening on the apostasy front on vocational training, I am quite convinced that we can also discuss in that circle how we can actually introduce various measures to reduce the drop-out of vocational training. In fact, however, I think that the reform we did together is a good starting point for reducing the drop-out of vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205151	There is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205156	If SF were concerned with young people coming from foreign educational homes and wanted them to be very much more skilled while they were on a youth education, as we think in the Liberal Alliance, then SF would be in favour of a professional taximeter. A professional taximeter is a taximeter that rewards educational establishments that are able to raise young people in relation to the starting point they have come from, whereas the so-called social taximeter rewards educational establishments that can find many young people with poor grades. Why is it that the SF prefers the passive meter to the active meter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205240	I am not quite sure what Mrs Merete Riisager means by active and passive in the specific context. In the SF we are actually very concerned that both the secondary schools and also the vocational education and training systems in general lift young people from the level they have as their starting point. In fact, I believe that this model helps to promote the ability of the institutions to maintain young people who are apostate, I am not particularly enthusiastic about that word, but now it is what we use to stay at their institution. On the other hand, I believe that it is they, i.e. the institutions, that we must decide what kind of initiatives it is for which groups of pupils it is for. However, I am very pleased that the Liberal Alliance is also committed to ensuring that apostate and educationally challenged pupils do not fall out of the education system and that we actually have a common task in maintaining them in the system so that they can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205332	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205335	I am, in fact, a great advocate of us calling things what they are. And when we talk about the social meter, let's just call things what they are. It rewards educational establishments that absorb many young people with poor grades. That's what the social meter does. It doesn't, on the other hand, reward what educational establishments do So why is it that SF doesn't go for a taximeter that actually credits educational establishments for what they do
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205409	I do not know if Mrs Merete Riisager was busy with something else, but one of the things I actually said in my speech was that we in the SF really want to be sure that the money is actually going to initiatives that benefit the apostate students. I'm glad to hear that the Liberal Alliance wants that too. On the other hand, in contrast to the Liberal Alliance, we believe that this mechanism, which is a social grant to youth education institutions based on the proportion of apostate students, is a good mechanism in the situation we are facing today. There are some institutions that carry out a huge task and that actually create model breakers • young people who break through the glass ceiling, which is social, in relation to what their background could really indicate they could. We would also like to pay tribute to that, because it costs money to carry out that task. There are some institutions with greater challenges than others, and we think it is important that resources move where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205458	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Rosa Lund as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205505	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we have been working for a very long time for the youth education institutions that have pupils who are having a hard time at school and are not necessarily able to get help at home to have a little extra money. That's exactly what we're gonna do with this bill. I myself am a student from the Metropolitan School, which no longer exists but was at Nørrebro in Copenhagen. Many of my classmates were to be the first in their families to get a high school degree. When we started, we were 32, and we were 19 students. Both in my class and at the Metropolitan School in general, there were many pupils from so-called foreign students, and I am sure that there were more of us from my class who would have become students if, first of all, there had been a ceiling on the class quotient, which has now arrived, and if, secondly, the Metropolitan School had had more funding for, for example. to make homework cafes, offer psychological assistance and other initiatives that would have given all my former classmates a chance, including those who fell away. It is not, in fact, because I believe that those who come from foreign educational homes or are apostasy are weak or poor. I don't think we're going there with this bill either. I believe that this bill is a recognition that there are some students who cost a little more than other students and that not all students in high school are alike. As you know, the taximeter system today does not take into account the composition of the schools. This is based solely on the fact that all pupils are the same and that all pupils cost the same. But all students are not the same. Some need more help, and hopefully this bill can be the start of seeing the students as individuals and not as a lot going through a sausage factory. In the Enhedslisten, we would have liked the social taximeter to be financed by new funds, because we know that there are not very many schools that fall into money. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible for us to convince the government of another funding, and we support this bill because it is better than a model without a social taximeter. With this bill, the model is financed through a redistribution from the teaching taximeter, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. This means that it is the large schools that are going to put the most in the common pool, and it is not necessarily the schools that have many resourceful pupils. That is why we can risk that it is going to hit awkwardly. In the Enhedslisten we have worked to ensure that the money for the social taximeter instead should come from the completion taximeter, because we believe that would have been more reasonable. The finalisation taximeter rewards the schools that already have strong pupils who complete and punishes the schools from which the pupils fall. Instead, we should ensure that the schools with the less resourceful pupils receive more money so that they can ensure that the pupils do just that, instead of doing the opposite, as is happening today. The aim is surely that everyone should have an opportunity to implement. As I have said, we would have liked to have another funding, but since it is not possible at this point, we support this bill, because it is better to have a social meter than to have no social meter at all. We will continue to work for a different and fairer funding and we will follow the evaluation of this model very closely. I very much agree with my fellow rapporteur from the SF that it should be the parties to the agreement that are involved in the evaluation and the results of the evaluation to be carried out. Finally, if we do not think that everyone should be given the opportunity to go through secondary education or vocational training, then I understand that we are opposed to the social taximeter. If you think that youth education is only for the children of the elite and for the young people who can manage themselves well, then I can understand that you are against a social taximeter. In the Enhedslisten we just look at the education system very differently. We do not believe that the aim is to educate an elite. For us, education is about ensuring that all children and young people, regardless of their parents' level of education or their parents' income, are given the best conditions for taking an education and thus the best conditions for a good future life. That's exactly why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205933	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202205943	The social meter is not a social meter. How can that be, you think. I guess the word describes the tool it names, or what? No, it doesn't. The so-called social taximeter is one of the best examples of the linguistic decay that emanates from Christiansborg, where only by calling something different from what it is, one expects to have a positive response from the citizens. I find it very unpleasant. I'm very much in favour of calling things what they are. If you want to introduce a taximeter that rewards educational institutions for admitting many young people with a low grade, that is what you have to say. You could call it an anti-facial staximeter or a lower barren taximeter. Finally, you could also call it a we reward bad results-taximeter. When you cannot call it a social taximeter without getting a black line in your forehead, it is because there is no direct link between bad grades and social background. There may be, but there may not be. It is astonishing, not to say horrifying, that a minister of education cannot see the difference in whether something is coherent as a causality or that it is two factors that sometimes coincide. Because if you insist it's the same thing, you go wrong in the city. You do that for a number of reasons. If one insists that social background and bad grades always coincide, then one also subscribes to a theory that it can be no different that children from bad circumstances cannot do well statistically. And it's a sad maneuver where all hope is left out. In addition, such a model means that educational institutions that take up a certain proportion of pupils who have poor grades, regardless of their background. This part is not taken into account. I would like to know what the Minister will say to education experts or politicians in other countries, the Czech Republic, England or Singapore, if they hear that we in Denmark reward educational institutions that absorb many pupils with poor grades. Perhaps you will say: Minister, I do not think I understand what you are saying. But what will the Minister say? Yeah, that's the question. Probably they will get the svada that we will also have here in the Folketing shortly that it is the case that children from homes that are without piano and bookshelf often get worse grades than others, and we know that. We also know that the government's response to this relationship is completely in the fence. In other countries special distinctions are given to students who rise above the conditions from which they come and create good professional results in spite of this. You give them scolarships and reward them with speeches and recognition. In Denmark we reward educational establishments that absorb students who receive poor grades. What you reward, as you know, you get more from. The so-called social taximeter is a professional disaster and a bluff. I would therefore particularly like to call on the bourgeois parties to abolish it as soon as possible and replace it with a professional taximeter as soon as possible. A professional taximeter must reward educational establishments that are particularly skilled at lifting students from the starting point they have. A professional taximeter, unlike the social taximeter, will pull up the skills and students. It will be an incentive to do well and reward those who do well, no matter where they come from. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202210313	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202210324	In the Conservative People's Party, we are not in favour of a social taximeter for youth education institutions. We are not opposed to changes and changes in the current taximeter regime, but they just have to be the right changes. We believe that it will be an interesting solution with a model that is based on how well the youth education institutions lift the pupils in a professional way and how good they are at getting young people on to higher education or in a job or to provide them with an internship. Unfortunately, when the government wants to introduce this model without adding additional resources, it also means that the upper secondary and vocational schools where pupils come from primary school with the highest average grade will be penalised and will have to pay to the upper secondary education institutions which receive pupils with the lowest average. We do not think this is fair, sensible or particularly ambitious. In the daily press we have read various examples that even some of the hottest advocates of a social taximeter doubt a real effect in relation to the concrete objective of ensuring that more young people complete their youth education. They may believe that more teachers can be recruited and that it may be possible to raise the level, but not necessarily that it will mean less apostasy. And the essence of the proposal is precisely to focus on youth education institutions with apostate students. Unfortunately, we do not believe that this proposal solves the problem as intended, and therefore we cannot support the legislative proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202210458	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202210510	I would like to express my thanks for the announcements about the social taximeter and to say first of all to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that, unfortunately, it is a condition and not super optimal that, when a financial agreement is concluded, there are often very short deadlines for consultation so that we can adopt a financial law here before the deadline of 19 December. However, it is not the case that there have been neither consultation answers nor consultation notes. Everyone has been given that, and if there is any further, we will of course forward it as soon as possible, because of course we need to use it as part of our decision-making base. So it is not to apologize, it is just to see that this is unfortunately what is happening in the financial law process. But you can say exactly about the model here, about the social and geographical taximeter, that it is a model that the government has proposed and which has been in consultation for a long time. It was in the government's proposal for a budget law, which means that it has actually been able to be discussed thoroughly by the institutions concerned too. We have had meetings at the Ministry with the institutions concerned, and we have also, following on from the meetings in an orientation letter to the various institutions, announced how the model will work for them. So it also means that, despite the short consultation period, there has been plenty of time to consider possible advantages and disadvantages. I am therefore pleased, both on behalf of the government and on behalf of the parties behind the Finance Act, that there is generally support in the institutional world for implementing a social and geographical taximeter in the way described here. I will deal with some of the questions that have been raised. Firstly, both the Left and the Danish People's Party have asked whether we should wait until a common taximeter check, which is, after all, part of the agreement on vocational training. We do not think there is any reason to wait for the social taximeter review. It has been a wish for many years, I almost had to say, to take account of the fact that today there are no equal opportunities to provide educational courses suitable for different pupils. We know that the chance to give really equal opportunities to students who do not come from homes where you have an educational tradition is better if you work a little extra with guidance, increased teacher-student time, differentiated teaching methods - all of which cost a little extra, but make you really have an equal opportunity to get a good youth education. That is what has been decided with the proposal here. However, what we are going to do in the context of the agreement on better vocational training is that we look across the board from the tariffs, including looking at another discussion that I know many people have taken up here, namely the difference between, for example. The tariff for hhx and the tariff for stx. So we are going to get around, you might say, the different tariffs, but that does not change the fact that it is a political decision with a majority behind the fact that the time is finally ripe for us to be able to correct the imbalance that has existed, because it costs a little extra if we are really to give students who are apostate a better chance of achieving it. SF asked for a few more words about the evaluation that has been made, and this is something that SF and Enhedslisten put a lot of emphasis on also in the financial law negotiations, i.e. that there should be an evaluation. And I think that it might also reassure the Liberal Alliance a little, that it is something that was made clear in the legislative notes, namely that there will be an evaluation and that we will, of course, follow the effect of introducing a social taximeter. We're all preoccupied with that. We're not doing this for fun. We are actually doing this because we want to provide better opportunities for more pupils, regardless of their background, to carry out a youth education programme. So it is being monitored continuously and there will be an overall evaluation after 3 years. Then I would like to say at the end, because nobody actually mentioned this, that it is not just a social taximeter. It's also a geographical taximeter. Thanks to Rosa Lund, who gave one, I think, very nice description of the experience of the Metropolitan School at Nørrebro, because it is a good example of a high school education where there have actually been many students who have had none at all, neither parents nor others, around them, who have had a secondary education. But there are a number of other examples. We can take CPH West in Ishøj, which is really good at lifting students who come from foreign educational homes, but it costs them to do so. They've found money for that themselves, but it makes it odd, and then it's a little harder for them to do some of the other things that high schools with resourceful students can do. This is not the same as, after all, it is a little an answer to the Left that so-called resourceful colleges have no money left after redistribution. That's a maximum of 2%. So there is still a solid enough tuition fee for you to also create different types of important, exciting, ambitious educational courses for the students at their secondary schools. That is why the last thing I want to say is that there is also the fact that we are strengthening the geographical tariff, so that small upper secondary education will get a little easier by offering a slightly wider palette of, for example. This is not the case in the United Kingdom, but in the United Kingdom it is the case in the United Kingdom. Last week I visited Fjerritslev Gymnasium, which is a very small high school but which, precisely because of the geographical tariff, actually has the opportunity to offer the slightly wider palette and can also collaborate in a campus-like environment with SOSU assistant training, 10th grade, hf etc. This means that they are good at attracting young people, who also come from educational strangers' homes, so that they can have a better opportunity to carry out youth education. So all in all, this particular bill on the introduction of a social and geographical taximeter is one of the things I am incredibly proud that we can get implemented now. It's been wanted for a long time. There is joy in the institutions. It is a redistribution that can be felt so that they can actually carry out some additional measures for these pupils, but it is also a redistribution that is no greater than that the other upper secondary educations also still have good enough finances to offer the education they represent to their pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211201	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211205	Thank you. I think the Minister has given me a few words which I have not said. But that should not stop me from asking a question. I do not think the Minister mentioned at all that this proposal actually goes in and removes some of the teaching taximeter that should be very much appreciated. I just think that in the recent business school negotiations we were reasonably agreed that we should now give eud peace and tranquillity, including economics, to run the fantastic reform that we have jointly contributed to. How will the Minister explain to me that going in and removing 2% will have no effect? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211303	Now the model is screwed together so that 200 million will be redistributed. kr. on the basis of the grades of apostate students, but in addition, within this framework there are 60 million. kr., which is being moved from the general upper secondary school to vocational education. And if you look at what an economy the various institutions have, it is also clear that there are a number of vocational training courses that benefit from the social taximeter. So it actually has the effect that vocational training, which has many apostate pupils, will also make a slightly better economy out of it. But where the big economy is, of course, in the joint effort we have made with the agreement on better vocational training, where funding is also provided for the efforts we are making together to improve quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211349	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211351	Thank you. When we negotiated the vocational school reform, I was looking around at some vocational schools, and I actually encountered a great many vocational schools which, from the present taximeter building, had the opportunity to have mentors, one had a social worker, one had a psychologist who sometimes came to the pupils who needed it. Now you go out and remove 2%. of the teaching taximeter in all schools throughout Denmark, then those schools that do not have an adequate share of apostate students will not get any money back. Should those places just let go of these initiatives, because you can't spend the money twice or can the minister do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211437	The most resourceful of the self-serving institutions, resourceful in the sense that they do not have very many apostate students, will have to deliver up to 2%. And when you look at the distribution in the model that has been drawn up and that has also been signed up to the institutions, the rapporteur will also see that there will be a number of vocational training courses that actually get a little extra economy out of, but you still have to remember that we are redistributing the maximum within these two per cent, which means that there are some people who do not get money from the social taximeter because they do not have so many apostate students, then they still have a nice economy. However, charges per person per year will be charged. students for everyone, and this means that the very good efforts that are being made, with mentors, psychologists and others, should also be able to complete the courses, but there will be a slightly better opportunity for those courses which have more students who need a little extra effort to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211535	Mrs Merete Riisager also has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211538	The think tank DEA and Danish Occupation propose to introduce a learning taximeter on youth education. A learning taximeter will credit youth education which actually boosts the professional skills of young people, both those who are very skilled, those who are in the middle and those who have difficulty learning. This means that it will also be of great benefit to the weakest. However, instead of choosing a social taximeter, the Minister rewards educational establishments for counting how many pupils they have with bad grades, and also credits educational establishments that are located in different places in the country. How does the Minister feel about choosing incentives that reward placement and counting students rather than actually helping students to become more skilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211634	Now it is actually the case that the social taximeter model that we are discussing here is not one that follows the individual student. You look at the total number of pupils in the institutions. This means, as one thing, that schools have limited influence and that is how it is today on their admissions of pupils. It is not the case that, as an educational institution, one can just sort out the grades that they carry with them. That is not the conditions for admission. And the second is, as I said, that it is not the individual apostate pupil, but the institution's overall student base, which is calculated on the social taximeter. So for the fact that you can speculate that you are recording some more students or not, I would say that this is not how the model is screwed up. In fact, it is from an overall view of what some students who together go to the educational institution that the calculation is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211730	Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211732	No, but it wasn't really what I said. In fact, I was quite specific about what is the legal text, namely that places of education are rewarded for counting pupils who have poor grades and how many you have, then you get a reward for it. But why is it that the Minister chooses such a passive incentive instead of the positive incentive that lies in the proposal, such as the one before us. DEA or Danish Occupations have come with where they credit training places for what they actually are able to do, so for what results they create, what learning environment they have and how talented the students become? This is positive, and it is about development. It's about what actually happened to these young people. So why is it that you choose a reward instrument that is passive and that is about where educational establishments are and how many have bad grades, instead of asking how good these students are actually going to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211828	It is because what we have been concerned with here is that we can see that there is a clear link between too many apostate students and their socio-economic background. That is what is at the root of the social taximeter. Other models could also be discussed, but we have been concerned that we would like to reduce the number of apostate students and give more pupils, regardless of their background, an opportunity to complete a youth education programme. And that is also what has been added, among other things. Enhedslisten's and SF's support: that it is now also made clear in the evaluation that is going to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211901	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211916	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202211936	Thank you. I can be relatively brief. I think it is a good proposal that the SF has put forward. I think it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark should be better able to re-socialise and to do what we can to ensure that more people choose a way without crime. I am basically saying that we must be just as hard on the hard on crime, and I think that we should be just as insistent on helping to the extent that we can as a society, so that, after a criminal act, people do not either become criminals or are otherwise encouraged by the wrong. Therefore, I think it is very real of the SF to raise the discussion about criminal records. I feel like you have to answer for your actions. This must be done not least when you commit something criminal, but you have done so when you have been convicted and served. That is why we must be careful that criminal records do not allow us to set up a lot of stumbling threads, which can in fact lead us to shoot ourselves in the foot, by making it too difficult, for example, to get into the labour market, to get an internship, to get on with training and otherwise to free ourselves from crime. So basically, I think it is a good proposal made by the SF. And we are in the situation that does not occur so often that the government intends to support the proposal. When we can do that, it is also because the SF has chosen to formulate the proposal so flexibly, whether you like, or broadly, that there is scope for some discussion of the different models. For it can be said that what is intended by the SF is that we need to review the rules on criminal records, and all that needs to be done in order to implement the changes necessary for more convicted people to be given the opportunity to obtain a job or a traineeship. SF has then listed some different models, and some of it is to go to. I think that we need to think more about something else. It's not least models 2 and 3, so for example. This is about whether, in each case, you should sit and, so to speak, target a criminal record a specific job. It will be a very, very important task, and it is also a question of whether this is where we use society's resources best. But we can discuss all that. In short: I think that is a good proposal. It's going in the right direction. It is important that just as hard, we must be in the fight against crime and punish when people commit crime and get to the wrong side, just as enthusiastic as we must be to ensure that more people choose crime from and come in and are part of ordinary society again. And that's where I think it's right to focus on criminal records. What will be my specific proposal to the Danish Parliament is that we start political negotiations in this area and that we start doing so in the new year. Then I hope that we can make a model in which, of course, we stick to the fact that where it makes sense for a future employer to have an insight into what may be of criminal past, we must be able to do so, and where the criminal record really becomes more a barrier, we must challenge it. I believe that we can jointly find models that will benefit the rehabilitation and that will support what is the aim of this government, which I also know SF supports, namely that we want a Denmark with fewer victims. If we are to have fewer victims of crime, we also need fewer criminals. I think a work on criminal records can support us in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202212325	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202212336	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the motion for a resolution. Let me say straight away that in the Left we share the intention that it should be easier to rehabilitate people who have been in prison, that they should enter the labour market and not continue a criminal career. I come to think of an old song by Shubidua, where Michael Bundesen sings in the chorus, that a shoemaker I won't sing, don't worry, says you should stay at your reading, the same goes for those with a stained criminal record. And there may be something about that. That is why we think it is very good when, for example, a project like High:five makes an effort to get criminals resocialised, get criminals into the labour market and away from a criminal career. That was also the reason why the Left gave the Left Freedom Prize to High:five at our national meeting here for as I remember it a few years ago. If we cannot then support the motion for a resolution, at least not in its entirety, then it is because we are worried that we are going in this way and devaluing criminal records. If an employer cannot trust what it says, but has some suspicion that something might have been deleted, then we risk devaluing the criminal records. We would very much like to work on the fact that employers not only have to do such a bloc separation of anyone who has a stain on the criminal record, but that employers also help to resocialise by offering work. However, we believe that the employer has a right to know that a person he is hiring has thus committed an illegal relationship in recent years. It is not the case that the criminal record is never deleted. In normal cases it lasts no more than five years, so it will be removed at some point if you stay on the narrow path of virtue or whatever to call it. The SF also proposes that, if you are under the age of 18, you can obtain a conditional entry on the criminal record to be extended to all age groups. There, then, we in the Left are most concerned that the young people under 18 will have a second chance and that as an adult you will have to take the consequences of your action, including living with a stain on the criminal record. It also has a preventive aim: the fine or prison sentence that you get may not be the most deterrent, but the fact that you get a stain on the criminal record may well have a good preventive effect. The SF also suggests that a special degree of criminal record should be made so that an employer can know the things relevant to the work in question. The SF itself gives some examples. For example, it is mentioned that if you are to hire a person in a kindergarten, the kindergarten manager must have the right to know whether he or she has committed sex crimes or other kinds of ugliness towards children and young people. So far, so good. But then SF also writes that, as an employer, you should not be given the opportunity to know whether a candidate a few years ago has stolen a car or made tax fraud. Well, now it's not the case that you can see out of the criminal record whether a car has been stolen in play or how. But, for example, if you have committed tax fraud, there is probably also a certain probability that you can defraud with kindergarten funds, and if you are a sous chef then you have access to the cash register in kindergarten. So in saying that there are certain types of crimes that are not relevant to the work, we believe that the employer himself must be the right person to assess. The second example is that a business owner should be allowed to obtain information as to whether the applicant for a job as an accountant has embezzled. On the other hand, the business owner does not need information as to whether the applicant has been involved in a bar fight some years ago. Well, now I assume that the accountant must be in contact with other customers and employees etc. So we agree with the intention that it is important for former criminals to get back into the labour market, but we are concerned about devaluing the value of criminal records and we are concerned about providing employers with this information. So, in view of this, we cannot support the resolution, but we will, of course, follow the current regime and we would also like to extend the current regime for young people under 18 years of age. And if it turns out to be a great success, then it is clear that we are willing to take the debate again at that time, i.e. whether to extend the system even further.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202212856	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202212907	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers want to require the government to revise the rules on criminal records with a view to implementing the necessary administrative and legislative changes, so that more convicted persons are given the opportunity to obtain work or practical experience. The proposers set out three models that can be used for the implementation of the proposal here. Let me start by stating that there must be consequences in committing crime, but the goal must never be punished just for the sake of punishment. The aim must be for the criminal act not to be repeated. We Social Democrats share the intention of the proposed proposal. We have to do what we can to get criminals on course. We know that education and work play a key role and have a major impact when it comes to getting the criminal back on track. Unfortunately, spots on the criminal record can have an impact on whether you can get an internship or a job or get into a particular training. When we adopted the last multi-annual agreement on the economy of the Criminal Services, which the SF itself also helped to conclude, a committee was set up to look at the importance of criminal records for rehabilitation. With that we also made it clear that we have an interest in looking at this field and seeing if we can do anything, do it better than we do it today. That is why it is no surprise that we Socialists support the intentions of the proposal. However, we want to ensure that we land on the right model, which ensures a balance between legal certainty for victims on the one hand and getting criminals on the right track as soon as possible on the other. We want to ensure that we do not create an unnecessary administrative messbox or a black bureaucratic hole, so it will therefore be our proposal that we take a further discussion of the proposal in relation to the actual coinage, and that is why we also appreciate the fact that the Minister for Justice has put forward a further discussion so that we can ensure the proper implementation of the proposal here. With those words, I would like to say that we Socialists support the intention of the proposal and that we are thus giving our support with the hope that together we can come to the right implementation model. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they are looking at this proposal with the same eye as the Socialists, and I should also like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the proposal, but have some questions that will appear in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213202	This is how parliamentary debates can be rationalised. Mrs Pia Adelsteen for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213212	I can see that it could be easy in the future if we rationalised in this way. There are certainly also some debates, which would certainly benefit some debates that would become really boring. In relation to the SF proposal, I would say that the Danish People's Party does not support it. We can easily see, like the Left, the intention behind it, namely that people should of course have a second chance. But we actually believe that when people have committed something criminal, there must also be a consequence of it. We already have this conditional entry on the criminal record for people under the age of 18. It wants SF extended to people over 18 years of age. But it has to be the case that there is a time when you have to take the consequences of your actions. I understand the intentions of this, but at the same time I have to say that some of the arguments contained in the proposal itself I simply do not understand, especially when it comes to conditional listing. For it is written in the proposal that persons registered for four or more criminal offences in the criminal register account for two thirds of all criminal offences. This is then used as an argument to say that it would be very good to make a conditional listing for the last third. But it is not just first-time criminals; it is they who have committed fewer than four criminal acts. That is why I simply do not understand the argument. At the same time, I also think that some premises are being introduced, which I certainly do not agree with. Because it is said that if the employer wants a criminal record, it has to be relevant to the work that the criminal seeks, and so what should be on this criminal record can then be sorted out. In fact, there is also the premise that employers are sorting out all those who have a stain on their criminal record, and I do not believe that that is the case. I know several employers who actually hire people who have a stain on the criminal record, but who say that this is actually something you think you can handle. So I do not accept the premise itself. The second thing is that it must always be the case that when you ask for a criminal record, you will of course know everything about the stains on that record. That is the way I think it should be, and that is what we in the Danish People's Party think it should be. I am curious to see what is going to happen now, because I understand that the government supports the proposal, which means that it is likely to be adopted. We must then see how devalued our criminal record system in Denmark will be. But we must keep that in mind in the work of the committee. The Danish People's Party certainly does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213520	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we jump all the way to sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213539	Yes, yes, with the number of parties greatly reduced and a flashback to the time when the SF sat in government as the last speaker, it is of course fast that you have to go on. You have to take that with you. Thanks to the SF for raising the discussion on the rules of criminal records. In the Liberal Alliance, we also think that there are both positive and less positive things in this. However, it may well be that the wishes go a little cross-cutting with regard to parties, so I hope that both the proposers and the minister are aware of the various wishes and will see how to combine them. I believe that the Liberal Alliance is most in agreement with the Minister so far, and the first of the three points is what we see as the most exciting; in other words, we can see whether people who have committed a mild first infringement can come under special rules. Whether or not it should be those mentioned by the SF, I am not going to lay down here. But at least I think it is a very relevant discussion to take up. On the other hand, we have been a little concerned about paragraph 2. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen went through such fine examples, where we also find it a little strange that one has one more such, what to say, qualitative assessment of whether the kindergarten manager must know one thing and the other, and whether the business owner must know one thing and the other, and where we at least find it a little difficult to see how the bar fights, for example. should be particularly irrelevant to certain types of employers. I would certainly like to know that in those cases where I myself was to be involved in hiring. So point 2 we're not so excited about. Paragraph 3 really seems to be the most interesting solution if you cannot have a system that works if it can be said that way. And it may well be that the proposers are not so optimistic that they imagine that they can have what they want, and then you stick to this paragraph 3 with exemptions in different ways, and then you might still get a little bit in the direction of what you want. I think it might be most interesting if we looked at what it is you can do in relation to those who commit these gentle, isolated violations of law. In any case, we have the position of the Liberal Alliance, despite the fact that we are in favour of stricter penalties for violence, rape, threats and abuse against children, that when it comes to mild violations and first-time cases, we actually believe in some softer sanctions. That is why we think it might be interesting to be involved in any negotiations that may be taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213827	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213835	Unfortunately, the Conservative rapporteur on the resolution, Tom Behnke, could not be here this evening, which is why I have promised to read out the following: the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution. It was the Conservative People's Party that introduced the system whereby young people under the age of 18 could be content with a conditional stain on the criminal record in first cases and in milder crime, conditional on keeping oneself free from crime for three years. That arrangement is good, but we do not want to extend it to criminals over 18 years of age. Nor are we in favour of allowing for the issue of criminal records containing only job-related information. Sitting and editing will create a great deal of administrative work, and who else will assess what is relevant to jobs? On the other hand, we can see some perspective in setting up the criminal record in a way so that it is possible for the convicted person to make a special effort and thus qualify to have the stain removed from the criminal record. With such a system there will be a motivation to make a special effort to show that you regret your criminal act and again live a crime-free life. Overall, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213944	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I now give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202213953	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the debate and thanking him in particular. I am incredibly pleased that the Minister is prepared to discuss this. I think it is incredibly important that we set up a system so that it actually gives people a chance to live a life without crime. The reality today is that the use of criminal records has really taken precedence, and in many cases the employer is not in line with what is stated on the certificate; they find that there is something and, although the legislation is actually the case, they do not have to make an individual assessment on a case-by-case basis. Many companies almost have a firm practice not to take these people who have a stain on the criminal record. There are also many companies, I must hurry to say, who actually take responsibility for themselves and hire these people. There are two things that inmates always mention when you ask them what barriers there are to living a life without crime, and one is the criminal record, the other is the legal cost. Our proposal here is an attempt to think out of the box in relation to some models that we can move on to. The exciting thing will be what we can actually land on. It is important for me to say that, of course, this should not just be a free blow to the fuck, but be designed wisely to achieve what we want, namely that fewer people commit repeat crimes. After all, the Rockwool Foundation made a study some years ago which actually showed that previously convicted people have significantly higher unemployment rates for the rest of their lives and significantly lower earnings for the rest of their lives. This goes far beyond the five years in which the criminal record actually works, and therefore there is indeed a basis for action. For this brand people are branding and means they can't get into the labour market. I think that's super awkward. I am often contacted by people who have these challenges with criminal records; people who have taken an education or maybe are halfway through an education course and have left the crime behind, but then cannot get an apprenticeship because they have this stain on the criminal record. Perhaps we should take a closer look at the individual conditions in order to give those people the chance too. But a big thank you to the Minister of Justice for actually being responsive here. I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202214236	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202214254	As announced at the beginning of the sitting, the examination of motion for a resolution B 14 has been withdrawn at the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141202214255	Then there is no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 3 December 2014, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
