ParlaMint-DK_20141216130004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130007	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130016	Thank you. Last week, the government, the Left, the SF and the Conservatives concluded an agreement to ensure that Denmark can remain a full and strong member of European police cooperation. It is important for Danish police, but not least for the safety of the Danes. The Danes must therefore decide at the beginning of 2016 at the latest whether the legal relationship should be transformed into an optional arrangement. The electoral system will give Denmark freedom of choice, and no one can prevent us from participating in anything, and no one can force us to be in something we do not want. We must continue in European police cooperation, we must remain outside foreign policy, and we can then participate in the other parts of judicial cooperation which are in Danish interest. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the broad majority of parties behind the agreement and thank you for the good cooperation we have had. It is of great importance for Denmark that we together take responsibility for Denmark's interests in the EU. The legal reservation agreement is just one of the many things we have achieved this autumn. We can look back on an autumn when the government, together with the parties of the Folketing, has taken many important steps. These are steps that mean targeted improvements for many people. In August, the government presented a paper on our health with improvements for the many Danes who suffer from cancer or who live with chronic diseases. It became a key element of the Finance Act agreement that we have concluded with SF and Enhedslisten. That agreement also contains improvements for our children today, for the elderly who receive home help and for those who use up the right to benefit in the year that comes. Following the Finance Act, we have concluded a housing agreement for many billions of dollars for the renovation of general housing areas; we have proposed a tightening of the asylum rules; we have put forward a comprehensive proposal on high schools; and last week we reached an agreement on new tools to combat tax havens. Last week also came the government's updated forecast for the economy. There is growth in Danish economy. There's been a while. Employment has increased by over 20,000 people since spring 2013 and unemployment has fallen. Our economy is stronger now than when the government came to. Competitiveness has been strengthened, exports have increased and the housing market is better. But the economy is not yet in full swing. Growth estimates are downgraded, not only in Denmark, but in most other countries in Europe. The government supports the Danish economy as much as possible. With our growth packages, we have taken great steps to improve business growth opportunities. The Danish economy is progressing, and there is a prospect that progress will continue and increase in strength. We're a government in the work clothes. We look after our welfare societies and our policy is visible to everyone. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about opposition policy. Autumn passed without any concrete answers as to what the Left wants. Well, we got an answer that shows the difficult path that the Left would like to take Denmark on, because the Left has seriously proposed reopening all municipalities' budgets to find billions of savings so that their zero growth can be linked just a year. We also did not find out how the Danish People's Party will ask critical questions about the Left's zero growth • whether they will ask critical questions or just give it an implied acceptance. And we still do not know how the Conservatives will find large billion savings in the state, or, for that matter, how the Liberal Alliance can save large two-digit billions without severe deterioration in our welfare. And we do not even know how the policy of the four parties is linked. So based on the fact that the government has been in the work clothes, has presented our policy and has implemented our policy, the call to other parties that do not come up with their policy is: Get out of the bush; you owe the Danes clear answers; you should have the courage to stand by your own policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130523	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. It is necessary, as experience shows, to clarify that in the first round the questioner and the Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time. Then follow two rounds, each having 1 minute's speaking time. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130545	Thank you so much. Here we are again. I think the Prime Minister was so handsome from country to praise something we have done together; we have done one more thing together: the agreement that, after an election, we should have a referendum. The Prime Minister is very concerned about this, and I am also very concerned about this, which is why it must be a pious Christmas wish that we get that choice as soon as possible so that we can get across to the other side of it and get started with the campaign to lead to a hopefully Danish yes to an optin model, so that we stay in Europol by the first quarter of 2016, but of course very much sooner. It is the Prime Minister who decides how quickly it can be. I think it would be nice to have that deal executed. It's gonna take a parliamentary election. There are probably some other reasons why we should have that soon, because now we heard again a long praise of our own accomplishments, but unfortunately there is not really any relation to what is of challenge right now and here. The Prime Minister said so boldly that the economy is stronger than when the government came to. I know that the Danish gross domestic product is exactly today lower than when the government came to. We have not regained full power after the crisis, and last week the government had to re-adjust the estimate of growth. This is probably not the last time, and the record we have heard has been downgraded all the way through, but it will come soon. There is no growth. There is a lack of growth in the short term and there is also a lack of growth in the longer term. If we compare ourselves with Sweden and look at the OECD figures, we can see that the situation is that an average Swede by 2030 will be a monthly salary richer than a Dane by virtue of higher Swedish growth. We must do something about this, and so I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question: what will the Prime Minister do to get growth back? After all, the latest Finance Act, which the government packed with Enhedslisten and SF, is devoid of initiatives to ensure growth and new private jobs. If you ask in the Ministry of Finance, you are told that the Finance Act costs you, because you make it more attractive to be on public support. Yes, please! ) So let me ask: what forward-looking concrete initiatives does the government intend to take to ensure that the government will not have to downgrade growth again next time the Economic Statement is made?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130823	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216130824	First of all, I should like to remind you that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior back in September, I think, thought that it would probably have to be downgraded, and that is something that has been done in other countries. But that doesn't change the fact that we have growth in Denmark. I don't know why, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and others are so busy talking Denmark down, for when things are better in Denmark, what Mr. By the way, Lars Løkke Rasmussen has also acknowledged in questioning hours in the past, why not enjoy it? It is better in Denmark than when we took over from the previous government. At that time we had a situation where competitiveness failed, where we had lost over 100,000 jobs in a few years, and we are now turning the tide. Would we like more growth? Yes, of course, but the development has turned, and it goes better in Denmark than it did three years ago. If we just look at employment, we can see that since the turn of 2013, it has increased by 20,000 people. Why is sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen looked ahead to making it a bad development? That is a good development when, after three years, we have ensured that developments have turned around, that we have growth and that 20.000 more have entered employment. This must be a good development, and I simply do not understand why Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is so preoccupied with talking so negatively about Danish economy when 20,000 more have entered employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131007	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131009	I'm certainly not preoccupied with talking into a black hole. I fully recognise the progress that is being made, all the more so that they are assured by the steps we have taken together. It is above all because the government has taken over the economic policy of the government of the VK, even if one went to elections on another, and has stuck to the reforms that were chosen to roll back they account for nine tenths of the positive effects that have been, if one asks in the Ministry of Finance but indeed also because what we have done since has been done jointly: two growth packages, a tax agreement, etc. So I recognise a positive development, but I am also sensitive to it, and that must then be my question: what exactly did the Prime Minister reply to the question of whether you would like to see more growth: yes, of course we could. I think that is a fine answer, and I would just like to ask the Prime Minister how the Prime Minister will translate that wish into action. Or will the more growth you would like come just by itself, without further political initiatives being taken? I can also put it into practice and ask: will the government, at the beginning of the new year, put forward ideas about a new growth package, a third growth package, for negotiation with the parliamentary political parties? In the Left we are happy to put up because we do not have a picture of We have the impression that more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131133	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131138	It is absolutely true that we have not done everything that can be done. We're not done. That is how it will be when you have four years to implement your policy. And we want more growth. But I also have to remind you that we have not taken over the policy of the previous government. We have implemented a tax reform, which is our economic policy, because it provides tax relief to those with the lowest wages, in contrast to the tax reform carried out by the previous government together with the Danish People's Party, which gave tax relief to those with the highest incomes. And that is a good example of the great difference in Danish politics. We are pursuing our economic policy, and I am happy if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen thinks it is good but it is our economic policy, sometimes done together with the Left, because we have made some sensible agreements. But that doesn't change the fact that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen keeps talking Danish economy down. It was even done in the introduction to the first question; one speaks the Danish economy down. Why, when things are better in the Danish economy? We have growth. We have 20,000 more in employment since 2013. We have lower unemployment than we have had for many years, except for the overheating that was under the previous government. We are one of the very few countries that can be counted on under two hands that have a so-called triple A rating. Why is it that one is so concerned about talking down Danish economy when it goes better in Danish economy than it has done for a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131311	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131313	I think we owe it to the Danes to speak to them in a realistic ballot. Before the last elections, we saw the current Prime Minister trying to convince the people that problems could be enchanted in 12 minutes. Now we're wired up to a new choice, and now we're drawing a flourishing picture of it all. I fully recognise the improvements that are there. They are based on the fact that the government has taken over the economic policy of the VK government in the broadest sense; this is the foundation of the government's economic policy. And we have since taken a series of steps together. But we also have to tell the Danes realistically that unless we do something more to promote growth, in 15 years' time a Swede will be an additional monthly salary richer than a Dane. Is that a sufficient ambition? No, so I hear from the Prime Minister that it is not, because the Prime Minister is talking about: could we want more growth? Yes, we could. The Prime Minister just said a second ago: we are not finished because we have four years. Yes, but that's also why I allow myself to use the question time to ask the Prime Minister: When you haven't finished and the four years haven't gone by, what are some further growth-enhancing initiatives you're going to take in the spring of 2015, so that the government avoids the humiliation of having to downgrade the growth estimate yet again?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131434	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131438	It's kind of weird to hear Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen talk about realism and then at the same time tell things about our policy that are not right. We never said that everything could be solved in 12 minutes. I know that when you go into an election year as we do next year, the truth is a little loose. I have also noticed that the Left has made some electoral catalogue where you are not so close to the truth. However, I would urge you to stick to the truth. And what would, of course, help in the economic debate we are going to have was if the Left would present its own policy if the Left would give a plan for: what is tax policy? What is economic policy? How is the zero growth experiment to be developed over the next many years? It is very difficult to discuss politics with the Left when the Left does not want to tell us what you really stand for. And some of what I'm hoping for for the new year we can all have New Year's wishes is that the Left presents its policy. The government's policy is well known. We have ensured that Denmark is on its way out of the crisis. We have ensured that employment has increased. We have an unemployment rate which is lower than it has been for many years, except for overheating. We have implemented two growth packages together with the Left, where we are lowering among others. corporate tax, changes some taxes, makes it easier to operate in Denmark. And in what the government is doing, we have always stressed that we are preoccupied with growth; we have put forward growth packages to promote growth in Denmark. What does the Left want? Yes, please! ) It would be easier to have a discussion if the Left did not put its policy forward but laid it out openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131616	The two debaters who have the floor now are those who have the longest speaking time in accordance with the rules without comparison, so I would ask that the rules be respected. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131629	But there's 00.00 for the speaking time. Now it's coming! One wonders whether it is because the Prime Minister needs some inspiration that so much is being asked about the policy of the Left. Now the Prime Minister has asked himself, in two rounds, whether we would like to see more growth. And yes, of course we could. Are we done? No, we're not done. And when I ask what is on the government's programme to promote growth, I just get the question: where is the policy of the Left? Well, I guess the policy of the Left would be one of those things. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this matter. The government has fivefolded NO x It was one of the first things to be added from land. It costs jobs. The government will vote tomorrow to abolish the housing job scheme. It costs 5,000 Danish jobs. So there are plenty of places where I would like to help the government to adjust government policy so that we avoid the situation that is going to arise the day after tomorrow, namely that we are adopting a Finance Act which costs labour costs.That is why I really do not think it is too much to adjust the policy in a situation where the government has now again downgraded the growth estimate, has put forward a Finance Act and a statement that means that you are operating with something near a spending stop in 2016 • something near a spending stop in 2016. There is room for public consumption to increase by 10 cents per annum. 100 kroner note • 0.1 per cent. And that is then, after we have for months been kissed that if there was no real growth, one would experience Armageddon on land. Then the government itself now comes up with an economic policy that shows that there is a small ten cent growth, i.e. a growth of 1 per thousand in public welfare expenditure in 2016. It's not starting to get together anymore. A reform of the electricity market has been pushed because one billion dollars is missing, bills are being carried over the elections, a train fund that is about to go down by 9 billion. kr., because the foundation on which the government's economic policy rests does not hold water. And then it's just that I'm asking: can we expect the government immediately after New Year to invite us to new negotiations on how to get growth back, so that the economy can start to get better together?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131902	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216131910	It is a little incredible that so many mistakes have to be made on one issue, even though it was a little long. What was right was that there, like Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen started by saying, was 0.00 on the desk over there, and 0.00 is also what public growth must be for many years to come if the Left comes to. That's Left's mark number. 1. I think it's okay to have that particular thing, but it would suit the Left to be honest about it. Do not call our growth targets for the public sector zero growth, for it is not. We have proposed that, year by year, about 3 billion can be spent. kr. extra, and that makes a difference, of course. So for all those people in the public sector who are under pressure, the message is that with the 0,00 growth of the Left, as you want, there will be even more pressure on the public sector. The humble wish one could have for 2015 is that the Left lays out its policy openly. Where's the savings to be made, Left? Where is the saving when you do not want the public sector to grow at all? Don't say about our policy that it is the same as the Left, because there are 20 billion. kr. In contrast, if we look forward to 2020 and tell the voters exactly: Where is the saving to be made? Who is to be fired in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132037	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132040	Now that there is this strong demand to stick to the truth, I have to say that one can then look up in Economics and see that what the government is operating with from 2015 to 2016 it is therefore the first Finance Act, after we have had a parliamentary election, is a real growth of 0.1 percent, i.e. 1 percent. Is that right, or is that not true? I'd just like to ask that. When the Prime Minister then describes our case number. 1, as if it were a stop to expenditure, I have to say that I have yet missed the opportunity to review what is left in front of the Prime Minister, because that is not our main concern. Our specialty number. One is that it must be worthwhile to work. For ordinary people who have the courage to take a job, including low wages, it must pay better to work than it does today, so we avoid the situation that, while we have unemployment, we have an increasing number of Eastern Europeans who come here to work and peace be with them, I am glad that they are here, but it is still baroque that we have them in a situation where we still have unemployed Danes walking around. We need to create a greater incentive to create more private jobs. That is our second priority and a driving force for it is to keep public spending back. So when I attack it with the fact that the government only has 1 percent in real growth in 2016, it's not because I disagree, then it's just because I think it's a little dirty that you create a picture of gold and green forests when what you come up with, hundreds of kroner bills compared to what I have so 10 cents, 1 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132211	When it's dishonest in the way Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen puts it up on, so it's because Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen must know that it covers up the fact that there has been a little more growth in 2015 and that there will then be a little less growth in 2016. I'm not the one who's asking the questions, but isn't it right, and it would be liberating if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would confirm that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is wrong and that I am right when I say that, compared to the Left's zero growth, we have 20 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. extra a year. 3 billion kr. is not gold and green forests, and I would like to say frankly and frankly to the Danish people that there will be no luxury in the public sector; it does exactly that we can keep up with the public sector. But it is in fact better than the 0,00 that the Left has for the public sector. How refreshing and liberating it would be if we could confirm in this Question Time that we have 20 billion. kr. extra for the public sector over the next few years and that the Left has exactly 0. That would be really nice, and then we'd get something out of this questioning lesson.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132326	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132330	We have therefore, the Danes have, we are talking about the Danish society • a government which has put forward a financial bill based on the fact that once again the growth estimate has been downgraded, where you have a glaze layer of 1 percent from 2015 to 2016, and where you push unpaid bills in front of you. There is a railway fund which is not linked and which has for the time being been bottled for 9 billion. kr. In relation to what the Danes had been promised, without telling the Danes what taxes and charges should then be increased to finance the money that is missing or to do what could be the alternative, namely say which roads should not be built anyway. There is a liberalisation of the electricity sector which has been pushed forward next year because there is a shortage of 1 billion. kr. There is an approach in the area of asylum that must create the impression that this is under control, because this has been pushed forward next summer, and that is where we all believe, I have to understand, that there is no longer any unrest in Syria, so that in 2016 there will be no need for additional expenditure on asylum for asylum seekers. That's how it works. Whoever has money in this country and who doesn't have money depends on whether we can make it stick together. One way to make things work together is to conduct an economic policy that makes some more Danes become part of the working community, and that we put too many people with non-western backgrounds who are out of work, they all faced with all the challenges we have a prime minister who now, let us now soon have that parliamentary election. In fact, it is not only because it will encourage us to have the vote on the reservation that we agree on, but also because it could lead to a new government which took some of the more fundamental problems in our society seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132519	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132521	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen speaks out, because I was asked whether it is not true that growth is going to increase by 0.1%. in 2016, and I replied by saying that it is true, but it is because it increases a great deal in 2015. And Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen refuses to say clearly to us not so much to me, because it doesn't mean so much, but to the Danish people that I am right that with our economic policy we have chosen to organise economic policy, so we can afford the public sector to grow by roughly 3 billion. kr. a year. It will not be the same every year, but it is roughly, on average, 3 billion. kr. a year. That money's got sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen not. Why? Because you have some kind of foggy plan about us not to see how the plan is that you want to spend all that money for tax breaks. So I'm gonna ask mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: Couldn't it be great to make a plan rather than how zero growth works? Is it not true that, with our economic policy, we can afford to develop the public sector better than we have with the plan that the Left might have? Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Left owe the Danes a plan, and I note that they do not want to talk about the zero growth that has been proposed themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132638	The question is closed for Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's case. Thank you to the leader of the Left. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as head of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132649	Thank you for that, President. And of course, thank you to the Prime Minister for the opportunity to ask here today. I couldn't help breaking up with the Financial Statement, which the government joined last week, because the Prime Minister says that there will be zero growth from 2015 to 2016, and that this is due to the fact that in 2015, that is next year, there will be higher costs. That is, of course, true, because it says that there will be higher costs in the area of asylum in 2015. So the government itself tells with Economic Statement that there are the higher costs in 2015, which then means that you have what is then calculated for zero growth in 2016, because there are higher costs in the area of asylum in 2015. That is probably a useful information for many Danes, I think. See, when it's the last question hour here before Christmas and we probably go into a time how many Danes think that when there are elections in 2015, it's probably gonna be very good with some Christmas days that are a little policy-free, so of course it gives some reason to reflect on the questions we've had and which have gone. And don't worry, Prime Minister, it's not to blame the Prime Minister for the lack of answers or anything like that; I might have the habit of doing that, but it's actually not. It is to please me that during the Question Times some kind of agreement has been developed that 2,000 DKK. is a lot of money and it is, whether you start from what people have to themselves after work or it is to shoes or what has been referred to. When we agree that 2,000 kroner. If there is a lot of money, then I guess we agree, Prime Minister, that 10,000 kroner. Is five times as much money? That's a lot of money. I mean, if 2,000 kroner. is a lot of money, is 10,000 kroner. real, a lot of money, five times as much money. Now that we know that asylum shopping is taking place in the world, and you could read here the other day in Jyllands-Posten that refugee families have received 10,000 kroner. more a month, can the Prime Minister not see that this is a reason why more people apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132848	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216132850	Unfortunately, it is not quite true that we have agreed that 2 000 kroner. is a lot of money. Because we also got clarification on the day we discussed the 2 000 kroner that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen doesn't think it's very much money. He believes, for example, that there should be more difference between being on a transfer income and having a paid job. I mean, 2,000 kroner. In a family where the salary is not that high, a lot of money, because that's 2,000 kroner. a month, we're talking about here. So I guess that was sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I agreed. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen didn't think it was much money; he thought you could get a pair of shoes for that money. So we have a little disagreement about that. Our strategy in relation to foreigners and refugees is to ensure that they enter the labour market. I agree that too many people are outside the labour market, and I agree that the more we can do to get people to join and make them become part of Danish society and contribute to Danish society, the better it is. Moreover, the more we can help in the neighbourhood, the better it is, because of course there is a limit to how many people can come to Denmark if we are still to be able to keep up with and ensure sensible integration. But it has never been the government's strategy to help make people poorer. Poverty risks isolating people, especially children, and therefore it is not the government's strategy to impoverish people. On the contrary, we want more people to participate in the labour market and thus become part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133020	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133022	I had the impression that the agreement went on, but let it be. I'm used to the fact that there's a little dialogue between the Prime Minister and Mr. Simpson. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, while I stand up here and have the opportunity to attend Question Time. Let's just keep it that the Prime Minister and I agree that 2,000 kroner. a month is a lot of money. Then we also agree that 10,000 kroner. five times a month is a lot of money. That's the way it has to be. Therefore, I still find it interesting when Jyllands-Posten, referring to the response from the government, can discover that average refugee families with government policy have received more than 10,000 DKK. more a month than before. And we know that we agree on that too, I have understood from previous discussions in Parliament that asylum shopping is taking place in Europe. So you sit and look at what the conditions are in that country to find out which country you should then apply for and apply for asylum in. Then I just ask the Prime Minister quietly again: does the Prime Minister not also agree with me that there is probably a number of people who apply here because the government has increased the economic benefits of becoming an asylum seeker in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133139	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133141	I must stress, and perhaps there has also been a misunderstanding in the debate, that we have not changed the rules on asylum. It is only now that we are proposing a tightening-up. We have so little difficulty in getting it through, because the Left will not support it in the Assembly, which may surprise many. In fact, we are proposing a tightening of the asylum rules. But we have also always had the view that we do not want people to be poor in Denmark. That is why we have abolished the start-up aid, and that is why we have abolished the ceiling on cash aid. Well, I'm a little confused about where Mr. Knox is. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti are on the question of cash benefits. Do you want to reinstate the ceiling on cash benefits and thus reduce the conditions for a great many recipients of cash benefits in Denmark? We have abolished the two benefits because we do not believe that the road to integration should go beyond poverty. We believe that the way to integration must go beyond participation in the labour market, and we will do a great deal to ensure that people participate in the labour market and thus become part of Danish society and manage themselves and do not put society at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133247	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133250	Well, it's too bad it's the last round, 'cause sometimes you need to get an answer to what you ask. The Radicals, the government partner, have said that the so-called austerity that is under way is just about pushing things a little ahead, so that the municipalities get a little more air to the task they are facing. I understand that next year it is 12,000 people who will be placed in a residence around the municipalities. That is one of the reasons why you, among other things, have to go. Now asylum seekers, in other words refugees, are housed in hotels just to do the job. It's a big challenge. But look, Prime Minister, what I asked you about is now Christmas, and then maybe I could finally be cheered up a little with an answer to what I asked if it was just something simple. Now that we agree that 2,000 kroner. is a lot of money and then we must also agree that 10,000 kr. is really, very much money, it is five times a lot of money, and we also agree that asylum shopping is taking place in Europe, so I just ask: can the Prime Minister not recognise that if the government has increased the economic conditions of those who come here by over 10,000 kr. a month to an average family that is over 450,000 kroner. Now in total value per year, which an average refugee family in Denmark gets a year and recognizes that there is asylum shopping, can this be a reason why more people apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133411	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133413	I believe that the reason why many people apply to Denmark and ask for asylum is that there are historically many people on the run. Not since World War II have there been so many people on the run. We are doing a great deal to help in the neighbourhoods. We will continue to do so because the most important thing to do is to help in the outlying areas. But there are also many asylum seekers coming to Denmark, and that is because there are many people on the run, among others. Because there is civil war in Syria. I think so, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is aware. What then is the question, and there is a political difference, is whether we believe that the path to integration is going beyond poverty or whether we think it goes beyond getting people into the labour market as quickly as possible. There we have a difference of opinion. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl apparently believes that one should be poor before one can enter the labour market and that people should be pressured as financially as possible. The government doesn't think so. We believe that every effort must be made to get people into the labour market. We may also be able to do more than we are doing now, but the road to integration should not go beyond poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133521	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133526	Here in December, there is one thing that is as sure as Christmas will be here in a moment. It is the story of the many Danes who find it difficult to get things together for Christmas, and of the children who do not get the Christmas they want. But it's not just Christmas time that we see it. Unfortunately, the inequality is part of the picture all year round. Over the last 30 years, inequality in Denmark has increased. There has been further progress between those who live in first class and those for whom it is difficult to hold Christmas or for that matter get an education. Now I am not under any illusion that we can completely eliminate inequalities, and I do not want us to be quite equal or exactly the same either. However, as politicians, we have a responsibility to counteract the distortion of society. We cannot tolerate the overclass running away from the community, and we cannot accept the increasing degree of inequality we see. Over the last 10 years, the wage trend for a director in Denmark has been over 23 per cent, while the wage increase for the unskilled 3F over the same 10-year period has been 0.5 per cent. What we see, then, is that the fortunes are more and more accumulated among the few and that the lifespan of those with long training courses and the purse in order at the same time is increasing, while the lifespan of the unskilled person does not increase to the same extent. And I can continue with examples of how the inequality in Denmark looks. Inequality is not just unfair. It also threatens the security and foundations of our society. Last week, the OECD, which is not exactly a left-wing think tank, called for a watchful eye, and they are calling for, and now I quote: the fight against inequality must move into the centre of the political debate. The first step on the way to getting to grips with inequality is to know the nature of inequality. Therefore, it is also quite surprising to me and SF that the government on Friday rejected SF's proposal for an explanation of inequality in Denmark. Not least when CASA today presents a report that also shows that inequality is increasing. Otherwise, we have set out to look at the consequences of increasing inequality and what we can do to counteract it, which I regard as a bottom-up task for a centre-left politician. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister is confident that the growing inequality will not have negative consequences for security, growth and opportunities for all of us in society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133803	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133805	It is in a way very interesting and thought-provoking that the issue of poverty and inequality comes after Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said that he thinks we should make people more poor and that this should be the way into the labour market. It actually underlines that we still have a very bourgeois party, the Danish People's Party, and then a socialist party, namely the Socialist People's Party. And it's really nice that that's how it is. For the government it has been and is very important to combat poverty, as redistribution and solidarity are important concepts for the government. That is why we are also proud that in 2012 there were almost 4,000 fewer poor people than there were in 2011, and here we are talking particularly poor children. When we know this, it is because we published the first report on poverty earlier this year, which shows the recent trend in the number of poor people. So to say that the government is not concerned about this issue is, after all, vertically wrong, because the government has just introduced a poverty statement in order to measure ourselves by how things are going in relation to poverty in Denmark. There must be fewer poor people in Denmark, and when we count from 2011 to 2012, we can say that, fortunately, we also have, and we can only say that because we have implemented a report on poverty, and of course the government is very happy about that. Because it is important that we have fewer poor people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133939	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216133941	I agree with the Prime Minister that it is important to combat poverty and that it is also serious when we have poor children, but when we talk about a poverty statement, we look at homeless people, we look at drug addicts, we look at poor children. I'm talking about inequality, and it's something else. I am talking about the differences between those who earn the most in our society and the electrician, SOSU assistant, cleaning lady who every day goes to work. You have to be aware that if you look at the development of fortunes, you can see that it is the case that people earn more from having a fortune just in interest than people do by going to work and work every day. Well, normal work doesn't have the same value as inheriting money. That seems to me to be problematic. I think it is problematic when you look at the fact that we want to create equality in a country where we know that growth is dependent on it. If we look at the OECD's own figures, we can see that they say very clearly that you lose in gross domestic product if you do not have equality in a country. If inequality grows, we lose, and with their method of calculation it actually turns out that Denmark has lost 40 billion. kr. in the last 30 years because of a lower GDP due to inequality. So inequality is not just poverty. It is the difference between those who have less in our society and those who have the most. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister is safe about this and does not think that the increasing inequality will have negative consequences for security, growth and opportunities for everyone in our society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134112	I think that we should be very careful to draw very large conclusions in the light of fluctuations in the Gini coefficient. It is clear that the Gini coefficient is also part of our measurements of equality, but if we look at Denmark and compare it with other countries, we can certainly welcome the fact that we continue to have a very small inequality in Denmark compared to other countries. Then we have even decided in the government that we will have an annual report on poverty so that we can keep an eye on ourselves, in relation to whether there will be fewer poor people in Denmark. On top of that, we have carried out a series of reforms that have one focus, and that is that people should move from passive support to employment, because the most important means of tackling poverty is, of course, that people can take care of themselves. At the same time, of course, we also have a tax system which still ensures a fairly large redistribution in our society as such. So I kind of agree that you have to keep an eye on redistribution and inequality and poverty, but I disagree that Denmark is a place where we have to be very concerned, all the time that Denmark is still one of the most equal societies in the world. I hope that we can continue to do so, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is of course important. Equality is important, redistribution is important, solidarity is important, just as the fight against poverty is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134244	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134247	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is now beginning to talk about equality and not just about poverty, because, of course, poverty must be combated. But it is of course worrying in a welfare society that there is still so much difference in whether children receive an education, depending on whether their mother or father has a long education in advance or they are unskilled. That is worrying. It is also worrying, as to whether the mother and the father are on cash aid or at work, that is, what the children are growing up in. All this information is kind of useful knowledge if a society is to be equal in the future. In spite of good words from the Prime Minister, I lack an overview of the various mechanisms that create inequality and how they affect our society. I don't know if the PM thinks she's got the overview. I'm not familiar with that. Specifically, I miss a forecast of how inequality will develop in the future, for example. in 2020. Just as we have an economic 2020 plan, we are, in fact, asking for an inequality statement until 2020, so we know what to do about it, because SF is not just about poverty. It's about the unskilled 3F's getting as much chance for the good life as the director in first class.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134401	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134403	There is certainly good reason why SF and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr are fighting for the government to be allowed to continue, in order to have a government that agrees that inequality and redistribution are important things in our society not only for the individual but also for whether our society is doing well.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I fully agree that it is important to look at inequalities in health. We still see, as the questioner says, that there is a very large difference in how long we live, depending on how much education we have. We also still see that those who come from families where there is not much schooling themselves receive poorer education and end up with worse grades. Unfortunately, we also see that children who come from families where you have been on cash benefits have a much greater risk of ending up on cash benefits yourself. So these are real and real problems that we have to work with every day. But just as I'm not worried about SF losing sight of these problems, I'm not worried about the government doing it for a second either. Just these reasons are a very good reason why we should consider allowing the government to continue, because with another government we can be absolutely sure that no one will worry about solidarity, inequality, redistribution and the differences that unfortunately still exist in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134525	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134530	I agree with the Prime Minister very rarely, by the way, that if you are interested in inequality and think it is a bad idea for inequality to be too great, it is a really, very bad idea to vote for Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's party or those parties who believe that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be prime minister. I must say that I find it very difficult to understand that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who says both that the Danish People's Party wants more welfare and that they think it is a bad idea to give tax relief at the top, then points to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister, is a man who wants inequality to increase even more and who wants even less welfare than this government. But I also want to talk about equality and inequality with the Prime Minister, and I want to start a very, very specific place. Christmas is about to come, or something like that, and there are many who think it is wonderful, but there are also some people who are suffering from illness and who are on sickness benefits, who are not looking forward much to these very sacred Christmas days. Because when there is a public holiday, they lose income, and that's because the right-wing, that is, the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party, got such a crazy idea, I think, that people who are sick may have had cancer, you may have had an accident at work, you may have gone down with a depression and who are on sick leave should not have money on public holidays. And that means that the people in Denmark who are suffering from illness are looking forward to this sacred Christmas with mixed feelings, because they are affected by their purses, and Christmas is expensive enough in advance, you might say. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is that fair? After all, both the Social Democrats and the Radicals voted against the right-wing attacks on the people affected by disease and spoke dunders against it, and for good reason, because it is not fair that, just because you are sick, you should have less to live on because it is a holiday. So shouldn't we abolish that weird rule together and make sure that we don't take it out on the people who are suffering from disease, that there happen to be some holidays?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134753	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for drawing attention to the great mystery of Danish politics, namely that the Danish People's Party, which is opposed to zero growth and which wants to fight for the most disadvantaged in our society, has as its sole priority that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be prime minister. It's a big mystery, and it's nice to discuss it every now and then, so you can wonder together. As far as sickness benefit is concerned, it is true that this was one of the discussions we had when we changed the rules on sickness benefit. We are fully committed to what we have decided together with the parties that wanted to be involved, and that also means that we are not going to propose any changes. I can easily understand the concerns expressed by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, but since we have reached an agreement with other parties, we are, of course, standing by that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134842	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216134844	I would like to know what the good answer is to the woman who has had an accident at work and who is therefore on sickness benefit, or to the man who has gone down with stress and depression and who is therefore on sickness benefit. What is the good answer to them? So, why is it okay that because there happen to be holidays for a month, the less money they have to pay rent for, the less money they have to pay food for, and now in December they have less money to buy Christmas presents for? I think that is very strange, Madam Prime Minister. But I would also like to ask something a little more general, because today in Berlingske one can read about a report from something called CASA, about inequality, which shows that inequality in Denmark is actually greater now than in the 1970s, and that, particularly in the context of the crisis, we have seen how the very richest, the richest percentage, have run completely off from ordinary employees in Denmark. I have heard the Prime Minister say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that poverty must be combated, and I agree with that, but I would like to know: what is the Prime Minister's position on the fact that there is a greater and greater proportion of the wealth in society that accumulates at the top of a minority? I mean, it's not just whether we should fight poverty, because I hear the Prime Minister clearly say that we should, but what is the attitude of the government and the Prime Minister that prosperity is lumped together by quite a few at the top of our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135019	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135023	I think inequality is important, but it is also important to combat poverty. That is why we are so satisfied that the poverty curve is actually broken. There were 4,000 fewer poor in 2012, than there were in 2011, and it has actually been very well done, bearing in mind that we have been through a very severe crisis. It is also true that if you compare with the 1970s, you will see that inequality has been increasing over a very long period. I believe that this is mainly due to the trend in housing prices. What I think is even more important to focus on is whether we still have a society in which there is redistribution through taxes, whether we are still concerned about inequality in health, whether we are still concerned about people living a long time on cash benefits entering the labour market and participating there, and whether we are concerned that the unemployed enter the labour market as soon as possible to avoid long-term unemployment. All the reforms we have carried out, for which the Enhedslisten did not want to take responsibility, focus on people moving from passive support to active labour market, and there is much evidence that they are working. So if you are talking about people having better opportunities to fend for themselves, then I would venture the cautious claim that the government has actually done more than Enhedslisten has been able because they are not able to take part in such major reforms that ensure that people move from passive support to active support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135157	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135158	First of all, if you want to combat poverty, it might be a good idea not to accept just that the majority of the VKO decided that people who are sick should not receive money when it is a holiday. That doesn't make any sense. Secondly, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister himself is bringing up the reforms, because together we have abolished some of the poverty benefits. That is very good, it is some of the things that have been moving in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister's government has also made a reform of the past and of flexes, which took money from some of those who have the very least, and a reform of the social security system which took money from some of those who have the very least. And a tax reform has been put in place, which means that those outside the labour market are hit hard, while at the same time tax relief is given at the top of society. After all, the reforms to which the Prime Minister is proudly referring are one of the things that increase inequality in Danish society, and I think it is a problem when inequality increases. I don't just think it's important to combat poverty. I think it's • but I think it's also a problem when inequality increases and I would like to ask two questions. I didn't get the answer to the first one. It was: what is the Prime Minister's view that the prosperity of a minority in the top? Is that an independent problem? That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1, and this time I'd like an answer. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 2: Will the Prime Minister take some initiatives before the elections that can draw in a different direction that can ensure that inequality actually decreases, rather than that the gap between rich and poor grows?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135340	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135342	It is the government's view that the best way out of poverty is to be self-sufficient, to get away from cash benefits, away from unemployment benefits, to get out into the labour market and to be able to take care of yourself. And the reforms that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is so sorry about are, in fact, some of the reasons why more people have started education or have got a job. So I find it very difficult to see how the reforms would be detrimental to the project we hope to have in common: that more people should enter the labour market. So in this way Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen and the Enhedslisten have not contributed so much to more people entering the labour market, and that is a shame. The other thing that is important to point out is that when we can afford all the things that we would like to afford to say no to zero growth or to unfunded tax cuts, it is because we have implemented reforms that give us room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy that we can do something for our elderly, our children, our sick people in this society. So in this way it is absolutely right that the Enhedslisten has chosen not to take responsibility for the reforms. They're so happy to spend the money, and that's fair enough. We'd be happy to do it with the Enhedslisten. However, we should actually take responsibility for the reforms, both to ensure that more people enter the labour market and to ensure that everything we want in our welfare societies is affordable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135511	That concludes this question. Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135527	I think it is important to get back to Denmark's opportunities to create growth. The OECD has put forward forecasts showing that we stand to have the sixth lowest growth in the OECD by 2030, and that is of course not very impressive. If you want to look at the government's own ability to predict how growth is going, I have actually brought a small planche that shows that the government always starts very optimistically. Whether it is in 2012, 2013, 2014 and now also in the perspective of 2015, you start optimistically, and then it ends up going much worse than the government expects. Is there any prospect that the government will be better able to estimate growth in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135615	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135617	How I wish that Mr. Anders Samuelsen had taken figures from some previous years, for example. 2009, 2010 or 2011, because I do not remember the figures, but I assume that this is not the first time that the closer you have come to reality, you have been able to see that a government has estimated differently from the actual situation when you could actually see how things were in reality. I don't know if sir. Anders Samuelsen has the figures, but one could look at what the estimates for 2009, 2010 and 2011 looked like, and then one could at least compare them with that government's estimates. But we said it very early in the year. I think it was already in September that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was out to say that we probably came to downgrade the growth estimates. It is not only in Denmark that they have done so. This has also been done in other countries. And that is because, although we have growth, it is not going as fast as we would like, either in Denmark or in the rest of Europe. It's better in Denmark, and it's better than it did three years ago. And it is so unfortunate in this debate that we have now heard both Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and also Mr. Anders Samuelsen is very negative on behalf of Denmark. I don't think there's any reason to be so negative. If you look at the credit rating we get from the major credit agencies, Denmark is among nine countries that have an AAA rating. We have got 20,000 more jobs since the turn of 2013, and we have the lowest unemployment rate that we have had for many years, apart from the overheating. So is there really reason to be so negative on Denmark's behalf? I do not think it is fair to a Denmark which has fought its way out of the crisis. We're not completely free yet. We do not have an economy that is in full swing, but we are in a completely different place now than we did three years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135806	Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135808	After all, it would not make any sense for me to start asking the current Prime Minister what the current Prime Minister is doing about how the former Prime Minister had the ability to predict growth estimates. After all, it is the present Prime Minister that I am facing. I just have to say that every year we have started very optimistically and ended very badly. It has then been repeated year after year. Does the Prime Minister deny that the OECD has pointed out that Denmark is getting the sixth lowest growth in the OECD countries and that that is what we have the prospect of? That is the first point. Does the Prime Minister deny that this is the case? The second point is: does the Prime Minister deny that the government has been really bad at predicting growth? You start very optimistic, but it never lasts, no matter how many times the rest of us try to point it out. The third point is: what will the Prime Minister do about it? What are we going to do about the prospect of having the sixth lowest growth, and that is all included and also the reforms that have been made? What's in the pipeline? What are you planning on getting this growth up so we don't have to keep hanging after, for example? Sweden? This is not satisfactory for the Danish companies and the Danish people, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135923	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216135925	I would remind you that the crisis hit Denmark very hard. The crisis hit Denmark harder than for example. Sweden. In just a few years, we lost 5%. of our GDP. That's a lot. I am not standing here today saying that everything is good in Denmark and that things could not go better. We also want more growth. But it is worth noting that it is far better in Denmark now than it did three years ago. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There are no unpaid bills. There are 20,000 more people who have entered employment. Let us rejoice on their behalf. Unemployment is rather low if you compare it with how it has been over recent years. Doesn't matter to mr. Anders Samuelsen? Doesn't it matter that everyone who predicts the economy, the National Bank, the Economic Council, the European Commission, in their latest forecasts, expects progress not only to continue but also to increase? Why does Mr. Anders Samuelsen not that all these three bodies believe that progress will continue and increase in strength? There they also agree with the government that this will be the case. I agree that growth is not as high as it should be. This is also why the government has pursued a fairly consistent policy by keeping its hands on employment and growth. We are continuing to do so because it is so important that we do not slow down now but, on the contrary, are still pushing growth as much as we possibly can.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140055	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140057	As I heard in all these non-answers that came here, there was no denying that the OECD has predicted that Denmark has the prospect of the sixth lowest growth in the OECD up to 2030. That is the fact. We are lagging behind countries such as the United States. Sweden. That is the fact. It is also a fact that every time the government has tried to predict what growth will be, it will be lower than what the government predicts. So this isn't a matter of looking at the country's economy gloomy. It is a question of starting from what the facts are. What do the highest organizations say about the prospects for Denmark? They say we have the prospect of the sixth lowest growth. Then why don't you go in and grab it? Why don't you go in and take, for example? the 12 billion. kr., the government will retrieve in efficiency in the public sector, and use them to create a better framework for business by lowering taxes? Why not go in and take the Productivity Commission's report, which says that you can find a lot of money in the public sector by organising it better, showing more confidence in people employed in the public sector and spending money on lowering taxes? It could, for example, be done. be to lighten the tax for everyone at work so that you do not have to pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 you earn every year, or to halve the corporation tax or remove the top tax so that we could really get growth going. Instead, the Prime Minister hangs in the brake with the rest of the government and says: No, but it could go a lot worse, and yes, we have had 2 years of minus growth and it's been in this government, 2 years of minus growth, but now we've just climbed above 0, and then things are going really well. No, it is not going very well, and there are no offensive actions from this government, and that is the problem, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140238	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140240	No, right now, my problem is that sir... Anders Samuelsen obviously does not remember the policy we have actually decided. Because we have not just set a growth target; we have also achieved a good deal along the way. We have adopted two growth plans, and that is something that is just as slowly being rolled out now and will have a very concrete effect. Two growth plans are of no consequence to the Danish economy and growth. Last year we decided on a growth plan which was very big. This year we have decided on an equally large growth plan of 90 initiatives, and the two agreements together make it both easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark. Why is Mr. Anders Samuelsen to distance themselves from the two growth plans when it means lowering corporate tax; to set precise targets for the time needed for companies and for state and local authorities to deal with their affairs, so that they have less trouble with it; to improve access to finance and, of course, to continue our efforts to ensure that the people who are in the labour market are qualified to do so? So in this way, the government has taken growth deeply, deeply seriously, much more seriously than it did for 10 years with a bourgeois government. We have made two growth plans, which of course will also change Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140400	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as the parliamentary representative of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140410	Well, it's going really well. You get that impression. I have to say that the Prime Minister is a true magician, a magician with both words and figures, because what most people are pointing out here is precisely that growth is lacking. So I actually just want to ask: has Denmark become more or less prosperous since the government came to, if we look at GDP delimited from the fourth quarter of 2011 until the third quarter here in 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140438	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140441	Denmark has been through a very, very hard crisis and it has taken a long time to get out of that crisis. The last time we had a Prime Minister who said that there were two lines below and that the crisis was over, I did not say that. There it is, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who said so. Because I am not here to say that everything is fantastic and that we are free of the crisis and that everything is as it should be. I'm glad to see how far we got. I am pleased that the figures for the Danish economy confirm that the Danish economy is progressing. I welcome the fact that employment has increased and that unemployment is low, compared with when we look back many years, apart from the period of overheating. I welcome those figures, but we are not finished and we would like to see more growth. What puzzles me about the bourgeois debaters today is that one is so quick to talk Denmark down. I should just like to remind you that the last Prime Minister to say that the crisis was over and that there were two lines below, was not me. That was the previous Prime Minister, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who did it. On the contrary, I have spoken about realism. There will be no luxuries, but we are on our way away from the worst crisis we have had since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140555	I have to ask for silence in the Chamber so that we can finish Question Time and so that everyone can hear questions and answers. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140603	But it is an illusion that things are going well, because the right answer is precisely that Denmark has become 600 million. kr. poorer while you've been in government. Is that something to brag about? Is it something to stand and be proud that you've done the country 600 million? kr. poorer? If we then have these growth estimates, where we have corrected again, where we have downgraded the figures again, do we think that we are following the precautionary principle which we ourselves set out in the government base? Is that what you mean when you again downgrade the expectations you had? Would it not be more real to put forward the real considerations? You might even ask if you should have a conservative estimate of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140645	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140648	I do not understand why the Conservatives and the Left and all the other parties are so concerned that things should go badly in Denmark. Why do you keep talking bad about Danish economy and talking Denmark into a black hole? It is absolutely true that we do not have the growth we would like. It is absolutely true that we are tearing free from the worst crisis since World War II. It is absolutely true that when the last government was on duty, we lost 100,000 jobs. It was very serious. But we should be able to rejoice together in the Folketing that there are some things that are going better. Denmark's competitiveness has been strengthened since 2011, exports have increased, the housing market is better and consumer confidence is greater. Our economy is growing, it is growing and it is stronger than it was three years ago. Employment has increased and unemployment has fallen. What more do you want beyond what I say and have said for an hour now, namely that we get more growth in Denmark so that more people can get to work? We all want that, but is there any reason to talk Danish economy into a big black hole where Denmark does not belong at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140803	Then I would like to ask again that there be silence in the Chamber until we finish Question Time. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140813	This is amazing... the Prime Minister is a true master of talmagic and illusions. Because when you look at what it is that the government assumes that growth will be next year, in this Economic Statement there are two ways to go • there is a positive and there is a negative. The positive estimate is that we are going to spend some more money. This is then considered not quite so realistic. On the other hand, it is estimated that it might end up with a negative estimate, because the European slowdown will also leave its mark in Denmark. And that's exactly where the Prime Minister turns out to be the very creative magician she is, because it means, when we read this, that we get a higher unemployment rate. So when the Prime Minister stands and says that we are talking it down into a big black hole, it is then on behalf of all the people who are at risk of losing their jobs. And there I'm just saying that I think that's unfair. It's not real to those people. So I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister continue to believe that this statement offers the prospect of the positive growth rate that has been given, since it is now so fervently expressed that there is indeed cause to have a strong concern about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140938	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216140940	I don't know who's the magician here. I am just telling you about the facts that you can go out and see and that you can also see if you read the Economic Statement. I would like to stress that I would also like to see things moving faster. I would have liked the way out of the crisis to have been more straightforward. But the overall picture cannot be changed, and that is that Denmark is progressing. We have growth in Denmark. It is not as tall as we would like it, but we have growth in Denmark. Contrary to what the Conservative rapporteur says, unemployment has fallen in Denmark. Contrary to what the Conservative rapporteur says, employment has increased in Denmark. It's better in Danish economy. It is not that it means that everything is over and that we can say: then we can put a stop to the fact that we are out of the crisis. I would like to emphasise this point. But why does the Conservative People's Party have the urge to say that things are going worse in Denmark when we actually have growth in Denmark, and when everyone who evaluates the Danish economy, the National Bank, the Economic Council, the European Commission, says that the progress we have will not only continue but that it will also increase in strength? Why is it that one has so much urge to speak up fear and say that things are going worse in Denmark when pure facts, which I am aiming for here, say that things are actually going a little better in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141109	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado and thank you to the Prime Minister. The question is closed and we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141118	From a member of the Folketing Ellen Trane Nørby, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 17 December 2014 she will be able to meet again in Tinget. Bente Bendix's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. From a member of the Danish Parliament Pernille Vigsø Bagge, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 20 December 2014 she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Karl H. Bornhøft's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there is the following review: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the impact assessment of legislative proposals on rural and peripheral development and on islands. ) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141214	Member of the Folketing Doris Jakobsen (SIU) has applied for leave from 16 December 2014, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141251	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the Second Deputy of Siumut, Nick Nielsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 16 December 2014 on the occasion of Doris Jakobsen's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141314	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 115 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141335	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141354	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141415	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141438	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141449	Does anyone wish to speak? There is no one other than the Minister who wishes to speak. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141524	Since we last discussed this bill, I have tabled several amendments to the draft law. Firstly, I would like the PSO funds to be paid to Energinet.dk monthly instead of once a year. These are large amounts and it would be more appropriate for Energinet.dk to receive the funds in a way that is more consistent with actual resource consumption. Secondly, I propose to amend the supply laws, the Electricity, Natural Gas and Heat Supply Act, with a view to implementing the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Directive on billing information, etc. The draft law already contains a proposal to amend the law on the promotion of energy savings in order to implement these directive requirements for energy consumers with distribution meters. The proposed provisions in the supply laws will provide a better legal basis for the implementation of these requirements for consumers with billing meters. The Directive contains, inter alia: require that billing information be provided to consumers at least four times a year, if technically feasible and economically justified, and if requested by consumers or has electronic invoicing. Invoicing information means the information contained in an invoice without payment request, i.e.: information on both consumption and prices. The committee has asked me several questions about how I will implement the requirements of the directive. I have informed the committee that the regulation will have to be based on an economic assessment of the costs of the energy and housing companies, etc. in relation to the energy savings that could be achieved. To date, it has been assumed that it is economically justified that consumers can be informed on request of their consumption every quarter. Last week there were two notices in consultation which contained such a regulation with a right to obtain consumption information every quarter upon request. Several consultation responses have been received. The consultations are not clear as regards the assessment on the basis of which the regulation is based. They point both to the fact that it would be economically justified to extend consumer rights and to the fact that the regulation already in its present form would be disproportionate. Against this background, I consider it appropriate to examine the matter further so that a more solid basis of knowledge can be obtained to base the economic assessment on which to base the future regulation. It is important that the savings that the future regulation will have to promote do not come at too high a price, either for energy companies or for housing companies or others, and this means that the notice will not be able to enter into force on 31 December 2014. I would therefore like to inform the European Commission that the regulation will not be in place until early 2015. Because I have previously informed the committee of the implementation of the proposed provisions, I wanted to use this opportunity to inform the rapporteur of these very latest developments. Then I can finish by asking you for a courtesy to deal with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141801	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141809	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141823	Sir. Steen Gade wishes to speak as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216141849	After all, it is a bill that follows up on the major oil spills in other parts of the world, especially in the Gulf of Mexico, and thus it is an implementation of an EU directive. In this context, there is a discussion about who is responsible for the matter. I fully agree that the responsibility for the matter cannot lie in the Ministry of Climate and Energy, because it has to be somewhere else. Ellen Margrethe Basse, a professor at Aarhus University, has participated in this discussion and she has pointed out that it was natural in the Ministry of the Environment. I must say that is also something that I would immediately think was natural, i.e. that it lies in the Ministry of the Environment rather than in the Ministry of Employment. So I would just like to say here that I have asked questions and received answers. I do not want to say that I am entirely satisfied with the answer, but before I came up here, I saw in the documents that that decision has already been taken by the Prime Minister and that it has been read out here in the Folketing by a royal resolution of 3 November. Then I began to think: well, then I really don't have to chase up a minister when the Prime Minister has already decided that it has moved. Perhaps this is not the most appropriate method of working, I would like to point out. That's one. The second point I want to make before we proceed to the vote is that I do not think it is best in the Ministry of Employment. Ellen Margrethe Basse points out - and rightly so, I think that in this country we are sometimes a little sloppy in implementing EU legislation, and I am a little afraid this is a bit sloppy. But now we are adopting this, and I will not prevent it, and then I will pursue the Prime Minister's decision to move it to the Ministry of Employment, because the responsibility must be hers entirely. She has it in a formal way, that is to say she can decide for herself where cases are to be decided. That does not prevent the Folketing from discussing it, and I will do so once the bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142121	Thank you to the rapporteur. Anyone else want to make a statement? That is not the case, then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142129	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142145	Does anyone here wish to speak? Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142203	This is about the new proposal for road law, specifically Article 64 (1). 2 in the new proposal for the Road Code. And it's about cleaning and snow clearing our roads, but not least of our sidewalks and paths. I think there are a lot of people, especially on our villa roads, who are wondering about the fact that the municipality is very, very zealous about the obligation to clear sidewalks and paths for that matter, while the road that lies right by the sidewalk is never cleared, especially if it is classified as a C-road. After all, there are cyclists and others who also have the opportunity to fall on slippery and snowy roads. It certainly gives rise to discussions around it. Here it is a question of the new Road Code requiring landowners to clear sidewalks and paths to which their property does not provide access. This has been the case for many years, many may say. And what about corner grounds? However, it has just turned out that it was actually an illegal practice and that back in 2013 the Road Directorate overruled this practice. After that, the municipalities have been very busy trying to legalise this practice. It then happens with L 20 that attempts are being made to legalise the practice that has actually been illegal and that has been illegally administered. It was supposed to be a huge problem for the municipalities. The Minister of Transport has sent out some map material.The example is from Randers who shows that the municipality gets a lot of trouble from clearing the sidewalks here and over the other side of the road and over on a third road. It's, uh, very, very troublesome. I have a map that shows how unfair it can work for some citizens, because then they will have access to the road here, and then of course they will have to clear there, but they will not have access over here, but there they will certainly have to clear up the new road law and the practice that has been illegal until now, but which they are trying to legalise. But there is certainly also a large municipal area here, which is made for the sake of the inventory. You have to clear that up as landowner, too. So, the Minister of Transport brings me some map material, and I'll bring you some map material, and we could probably bring you hundreds of maps showing the different situations. I think the short part of the length is that with this law, the municipalities are given the opportunity to impose on the landowners around to clear and clean very, very large areas, which should actually be the municipality's task. There's no doubt that once the municipality gets this opportunity, they put on full turbo. It is, of course, to save money. The municipalities are in need, and here is a place where you can privatise them all the way to the individual landowner who can be allowed to clear and clean it. That is why we have tabled an amendment in the Enhedslisten, and that is what I wanted to do, to maintain the provisions of the old Road Code, and the Road Directorate has, of course, established how it is to be administered, namely that of course only roads and pavements are cleared in a zone of 10 metres to which one's property gives access. The rest of the municipality must ensure that the roads which are not being cleared are cleared. There is no doubt, and it is actually clear from the draft law that KL has swung the whip, and I find it regrettable that the KL has fallen on its belly, because it is clear to save money in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142629	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142636	I had a little trouble seeing the map material Mr. Henning Hyllested stood and fluttered on the platform (Henning Hyllested I'm just holding it up), and I even put my glasses on. I can try to do it again; I don't think it'll help. I would like to know if we could possibly have it distributed so that we can get to know Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142653	So, the map material showing such a pentagon from Randers has been distributed in the Transport Committee, and the second I have received from a journalist on the Jutland West Coast in Sønderborg, who has described in detail a case down there that really shows how unfairly you are hitting the citizens. But I will be happy to ensure that it is circulated, at least in the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142714	That's it? Thank you to the rapporteur. Anyone else want to make a statement? The Minister of Transport would like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142729	Thank you. It should not be named when we get such a well planned presentation in a speech by Enhedslisten that we do not provide an answer. It is certainly an experience to such an extent to attend, one can say, Enhedslisten as a defenser for Parcelhusdanmark; it is nice to experience Enhedslisten have a look for that part of Denmark too. I see they're putting their fist down there in the hall. They then fear that this will come as a snow slave on the part of the municipality in relation to requiring people to clear the sidewalk. Then I have to say: note what it was, the Enhedslisten also said, namely that this is the way the law has been administered so far. There was a decision which showed that it was a wrong administration, so far. And that is a return to the way in which the law has been administered so far, which means that you can be quite calm if you are parcel houses as I am and live out to a sidewalk: it is our responsibility to sweep snow when the snow otherwise falls. Then the thing is, if you live on a corner ground, it's the sidewalk all around, which is the homeowner's responsibility. I do not know whether you can say that is right and duty, but I think that is fair enough. In any case, it would be pretty violent if you had to get the municipality out to sweep snow on a few meters of sidewalks that are, on one corner and the other corner. That is how it is: if you have a house, you are responsible for sweeping the snow if the snow falls on the sidewalk that is along the ground you own.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142901	So there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142906	But will the Minister not admit that there is a danger that it will come overturning like an avalanche if it is the case that the municipalities are really starting to make use of this? It can be said that the illegal practice so far may well have caused a dampening of around it. But the municipalities have to save money. They are kept in a tight, tight financial grip and have to come up with savings and new savings all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216142937	I simply do not share that fear. Well, it's for decades if we haven't had that rule here in Denmark. I believe that everyone who has a house bordering on public roads, even if they live on a corner ground, I know that there are some who simply buy house after the fact that of course you have to shovel snow on the sidewalk that is out for the reason you have. And it should also be the case in future that it is your own responsibility; if you have a house, you also have to make sure that snow is shoveled on the sidewalk outside. You can choose to buy yourself out of it if you want to, but otherwise, as I do, you have to swing the snow shovel. If you then live on a corner ground and only have access to one road, but not to the other, I think it is only right and proper that this should be the way it has been so far, namely that you are responsible for both parts of that corner of the pavement. And frankly, I think it would be rather chaotic to imagine that you are only responsible for shoveling snow on the piece that you have a path or a driveway leading out to, so the municipality must find all the hundreds, perhaps thousands, of corner grounds that are in the country's various municipalities, and shovel snow on those sections. I would think that was a huge burden to impose on society when it is really the duty of the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143050	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143054	Maybe that's why it was really clever if the municipality undertook to clear these paths and sidewalks. After all, the municipality has the great advantage of having economies of scale in doing that, which is why it would of course be right and proper. But corner grounds, yes, but this map material, like Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen couldn't see that, and I'm sure there were others in Things who couldn't see that we have a municipally adapted area, made as an overview area. It has nothing to do with a corner ground. Does a landowner now, in addition to looking after the sidewalk to which he has access, fit it completely on the other side, which is part of this large communal area? The same applies to the second example. This is the current example from Sønderborg, where the landowners of course have to clear where they have access, but then there is also the other side that they do not have access to and it is not a corner ground; it is actually a great detour to get on about and where the municipality has so far actually cleared it; it is a school path. There are landowners so now they are required to clear snow. So there are many other examples of unfairness and strangeness, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143204	With respect for the principle and importance of this debate, I stand here with all my ears in the Danish Parliament directed at me, I would say: if there are new short materials, in relation to what I have got from KL, where we can see exactly the cornerstones there are, then that is something that I would recommend that the Transport Committee look at. I would also recommend, if you are a landowner and do not want to sweep your sidewalk yourself, that you try to vote for parties that have money in the municipal budget to sweep the sidewalk for all the citizens of the country. That is not something I would recommend to do, because I think it is fair that we, as citizens of this country, who have a house, should also sweep the sidewalk to which it belongs. It could be a little awkward. I've been out and banded about it myself, and most of us have, but we're gonna get it done, and it's healthy enough. It would be all too expensive to pass it on to society, in other words to make it society's fault and the responsibility of society that it snows.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143256	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143301	But I would just like to say to the Minister that it is now up to the Minister to be fully aware of what the Minister is saying. Because in a moment we will be able to easily find that what the Minister has just said twice now is that, of course, when you have a ground adjacent to some sidewalks, you have to clean the sidewalks. I totally agree. Will the Minister confirm that this is what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143330	Now I know the former Minister for Transport so well that I think that is a trick question. It is the case with the Road Act that we are dealing with here, that it is about the public roads, i.e. the municipal roads, and if you have a reason and you live at such a place I do, for example. It is your own responsibility to clear the snow on the sidewalk adjacent to the ground on which you now live. So that is how it is for the general question of principle. But otherwise I would almost recommend the questioner to put it as a written question, and then I will try to catch what is between the lines as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143412	Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143417	Well, that's what I'm gonna do, Minister. But it is simply because what the Minister constantly answers to the question that was raised down here is that of course you have to clean the sidewalks that lie on your ground. That is absolutely right. The minister says sidewalk, but that's barely what it's all about. These are paths we are talking about, which is why we just have to remember that sidewalks have a completely different term in the law of the road than the others have. So I guess we're agreed it's sidewalks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143447	This amendment is about snowing the sidewalk by the road ahead of the property. The point is that if we had not tabled an amendment, it would be the case that if you had a corner ground to a public road, you would only be obliged to clear the snow on that part of the pavement to which you also have a path or a driveway. The part that lies on the other side of the corner along your hedge, you wouldn't have to clear snow if we didn't change this bill. It could probably be a party for some, but it would mean a quite heavy burden for the individual municipalities, who would then have to go out and clear the snow on that sidewalk. That is exactly why we are now proposing to amend the bill with this amendment, so that we will continue the practice that has been going on for decades throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143539	Thank you, Minister. Let's hope there's snow at all, because otherwise it's a waste of time. Sir. Kim Christiansen, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143552	Thank you. Now I understand from some here that there may be some who can sit and wonder how something as simple as snow clearing can give rise to such a big debate. But it can, because what the Minister wants is to shift a burden of something that the municipalities have otherwise assumed onto tens of thousands of landowners. That is why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal that this should not be the case and that it should be as it was in the old law. As it seems that there has been a great deal of uncertainty about this in the Left and among many others, I would suggest that we have this referred back to committee so that we can all know exactly what it is. Because as I hear the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Transport is not even quite sure what this is really about. So I would say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we want this back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143643	It's noted. Do more people want to speak before we vote on amendments? That is not the case, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143654	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-24, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 25 by a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF, SF and LA). The vote shall be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 31 votes (DF, SF, EL and LA), against 77 votes (S, V, RV, 4 SF (by mistake) and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 26-43, adopted by the Committee, and Amendment No. 26-43, adopted by the Committee. 44. adopted by a majority (V, S, RV, LA and CF) or on Amendment No. 45-65, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill be referred back to committee before the third reading. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143824	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143837	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143858	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143914	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-18, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. 19, adopted by the Committee with the exception of EL, or Amendment No 19. 20-29, member of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143939	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216143958	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144014	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144057	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144119	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144135	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144204	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144220	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144237	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Karen J. Klint does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144258	When I go to the platform now, it is not because there is a major difference in the way the bill on citizenship is dealt with in relation to otherwise. There are always some who are taken off because of some different circumstances, and so is this time. But there is also a special situation. We have been through a great many applications up to the legal proceedings here, and some have been found during the course of the proceedings, which I think I might call rather similar medical statements. And it has been decided that we will look a little extra at the medical statements, because we think they are too similar to have perhaps the greatest truth value for the people they are dealing with. In the amendment tabled by the Minister for Justice, an overall committee agrees that the people concerned are taking us out. Because there is now an examination of the specialist who has made the medical certificates and then we do not think that we should deal with the cases in question until we have the results of the investigation that has been carried out. That is why we propose that the draft law be split up so that we have nine people on a residual proposal which goes back to the committee for further consideration, whereas the main proposal continues the general discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144430	Sir. Morten Marinus? No, he just hit the button. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144449	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law on citizenship]: if a vote is requested on Amendment No 3. 2 and 3, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and SF)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that Bill No. L 45 A is referred back to committee and, if no objection is raised, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. I suggest that Bill No. L 45 Β goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144544	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144600	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a majority (V, EL, SF, LA and KF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? That is not the case. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the law on equations]. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 2 and 3 of a minority (DF), joined by a majority (V, EL, SF, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals [L 42 A and L 42 B] go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144649	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144716	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (LA), joined by a majority (V, DF, EL, SF, LA and KF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. [Proposal for a law amending the registration tax law, the fuel consumption tax law and the law on vehicle weight taxes, etc.] Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (LA). The vote shall be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals [L 43 A and L 43 B] go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144816	The Minister for Taxation has indicated that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 2 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone then wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144855	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL) on Amendment No 1. 5 outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No. 3 and 4 adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL) or on Amendment No 3. 6 outside the report by the tax minister? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144928	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216144952	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (LA), joined by a majority (V, DF, SF, EL and KF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division has been agreed. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the chocolate tax law, the law on the levying of wages, etc., the VAT law, the Act on the tax of natural gas and urban gas, the Spirit Tax Act and various other laws (Simplification of access by registered recipients to the reimbursement of taxes on exports, exemption from customs duties on goods covered by customs warehousing procedure, other special customs and tax warehouses, payroll tax on self-employed groups of VAT, introduction of the possibility of indirect taxation of urban gas, abolition of banderols on spirits, etc.PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-11, adopted by a majority (V, DF, SF, EL, LA and KF), or on Amendment No. 12 of a minority (LA), also joined by a majority (V, DF, SF, EL and KF)? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the law on the taxation of non-life insurance (Payment of non-life insurance tax for all roadside service providers]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No 2. 13 of a minority (LA), joined by a majority (V, DF, SF, EL and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216145100	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216145139	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216145149	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 was elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216145208	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Eigil Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216145247	The SF has tabled some amendments to the employment reform, which I would urge everyone to vote in favour of. The first proposal is that the cashiers take over the task of helping the unemployed in the first half of the year as unemployed, but with the modification that if the unemployed person's industry has disappeared from the area because a particular company has been abandoned or if he has problems other than unemployment, he should be referred to the job centre from the outset. But then you might ask: why would the cashiers be good at helping the unemployed for the first six months? They will simply do so because they will be the best to do the job: they know the place of work of Members so far, they know the qualifications of Members and they know their need for continuing training courses. But they also know the industry, they know the employers, and they know the work opportunities in this area best through their very large network. It is simply such an in-depth knowledge that it will never be possible for a job centre worker to get the same knowledge, because as a job centre worker you work with the unemployed from many different sectors at once. The government, which, as you know, now consists of the Social Democrats and the Radicals, also believes in fact that the cashiers will be the best for the task. For exactly the same thing was in the government's proposal for employment reform, which was made on the day before 1 May of this year. Here was exactly what SF is proposing today with Enhedslisten: that the A-boxes should have the task for the first six months. That is why I am counting on the members of the Social Democrats and the Radicals to vote here today in favour of this proposal, which has simply been drawn up from their own initiative from the last day of April this year. It is a question of Amendment No 6, which should also be remembered in the two parties to use the green button. The second proposal is to put an end to the circle of conversation which will be set up with this employment reform. It is simply extremely exaggerated to force all unemployed people to nine interviews in 1⁄2 years of age six in the job centre and three in the a-box. In most cases these conversations will be meaningless and thus a waste of time, and this will be both for the unemployed, for the job centre worker and therefore also for society. As the Social Democratic Employment Councilor in Aalborg, Mai-Britt Iversen, has wisely said, it will be a question of the job centres becoming a conference factory. Why is this a huge waste of resources? It is simply because many unemployed people find those jobs themselves during the first six months. So why on earth should all unemployed people be forced to hold nine interviews in six months' time? It's crazy. I'm taking my head. It will simply be a conversational circus. The National Association of Local Authorities, which also plays a role in this context, has calculated that in the job centres there will be over 400,000 additional conversations compared to today. I have then asked the Minister for Employment how many years of work it takes to hold these appallingly many and, in most cases, unnecessary conversations, and the frightening answer is 140 years' work • 140 employees who must be full-time engaged in an unnecessary task where time could have been much better spent. In addition, nine compulsory interviews of one and a half years are in total conflict with the declaration made by the parties involved in the reform of employment that a much more individually adapted aid should be provided on the basis of a concrete assessment of the situation of the individual unemployed. The former Minister for Employment, the current Minister for Justice, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has argued that one size fits all-model in the current employment system has been a very poor use of resources, and she is so right forever. For this reason, there should also be an individual adjustment for talks. We therefore propose to reduce the number of mandatory interviews in job centres and cashiers from nine in the bill to three in total. However, in cases where more calls are needed and there may well be a smaller group of unemployed people who need more interviews than three, the job centre is competent to provide for more interviews for the unemployed. But the principle of this is that we will use the resources of the unemployed who need it most, and they will then receive better help. That is simply the right way to do it, and that is why I call for the vote to be taken in favour of Amendment No. 7. A third and final issue is how much money you as an unemployed person should have if you use the possibility that you can move from being unskilled to being skilled within the framework of this bill. That's where the bill says you should be able to get 80% at most. of the daily allowance rate. SF and Enhedslisten suggest that it should be the full daily allowance rate, i.e. 100 per cent. Then why? When an employee is fired, he loses his or her salary and benefits, and this is often a loss of income, for example. 5,000, 8,000 or maybe 10,000 kroner. before taxes per year. month. This means that, for most people, the transition to cash benefits is such a significant reduction in income that there must be a great deal of adjustment and one must understand here: a large reduction in family expenses. As I said, the reconciliation parties behind the reform of employment propose that education should only be able to get 80%. of the maximum daily allowance rate. Such a further decline in income during education, which will amount to about DKr 3,000. per month before tax in e.g. 11⁄2 years, will make it impossible for many families to make it run around, and therefore many unemployed will not participate in training for skilled workers, simply for economic reasons. It is both regrettable and contrary to the interests of society. Society has a clear interest in many more unskilled people becoming skilled. This is because society, as everyone knows, will need more skilled people in the future. But this is also due to the fact that unemployment among skilled workers is significantly lower than among unskilled workers, just as we know that on average the unemployment periods of unskilled workers are shorter than those of skilled workers. It is therefore necessary that many unskilled and many skilled people with outdated training become interested and use this opportunity for a training boost. This amendment on the full rate of daily allowances during training will make a significant contribution to the interest of more people, which is why, on behalf of the SF, I would also urge you to vote in favour of Amendment No 29.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216150044	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216150100	I remember the press meeting of the Ministry of Labour some time ago when Carsten Koch had to present his ideas. That's when he made a speech mistake. He said that the ideas now being developed were, in a sense, an attempt to create a simplified, more one-tier system. Then we were some old people who have been dealing with this for many years, who jumped a little in the chair and thought, "Well, isn't he a socialist? A one-tier system means, in general labour market talk, first of all, that the tasks of the cashiers are transferred over so that everything runs under the cash benefits system. Some people dream of that in these years, and there is reason to pay close attention to it when he can make such a statement, and when the bourgeois too full hammers are currently preparing to create a cash-free labour market. There are many who think: No, it will never happen, but with the passivity and silence in the trade union movement at the moment, I fear the worst, and I think we will have to take the debate when we slice the deterioration in this area. Therefore, it was also important for Enhedslisten and I believe also for SF to join the negotiations. We asked to be allowed to participate in the negotiations, but the old parties said that we were not qualified to negotiate whatever that means in that language. It is fair to say that Mette Frederiksen was fair enough to beat the table and say that she also thought it was a good idea, but it does not help the negotiating parties in the old conciliation. This left us out of it, which is why we had to wait to see what the legislative proposals were like. Now we have seen them and it has been necessary to table a rather long series of amendments. I remember when we talked about employee investment funds, the Minister for Business and Growth said that we were not in work clothes. We had tabled some amendments to his law, and indeed he even called them Communist proposals. Now it was the case that the proposals then and the proposals that we have made this time come primarily from comments by the trade union movement, and it would surely be a shame to call them communists. I'm sure they'd be sorry for that themselves. But it is not the Minister for Business and Growth who is going to stand for battle today; he has nothing to do with this. We have tabled a large number of amendments so that we can see good things in it. These laws are turning the heavy end down. That is why we need to have cleaned it up, and I very much agree with SF's comments just now. The proposals we have put forward are about correcting the shortcomings. Full rates of benefit should be provided for participation in vocational training and not just 80%. of the rate. If we are serious about inspiring training while you are unemployed, it must also be the case that you get the allowance. The daily allowance is already very low. They are so low that even Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been able to see that it doesn't seem to go with such a low daily allowance. He has probably not himself wondered whether he was in the risk zone, but more generally it is a right view that just as low a daily allowance as we have in Denmark is too low, and if you go down to 80%, there are not many people with obligations who would dare to do so. The requirement for training to be completed within the period of unemployment benefit will also make it impossible for many to complete vocational training within the limited time frame. Instead, you should be allowed to complete the training on your own account once the benefit period has been exhausted. In our view, the loan for training boosts should be interest-free in the course of training. Improvements for adult apprentices should apply to everyone, whether they come from work or are unemployed. It goes without saying that we need to have people trained, including adults who today have no education, and if we mean anything by that, then we need to create conditions that are attractive to those who do not have an education. The right to real skills development should apply to everyone, regardless of age. Why on earth should an age be included in this proposal? The positive list for the regional pool for short-term vocational training should be drawn up by the regional labour councils rather than centrally, and there should be a derogation for non-regular courses so that municipalities can receive reimbursement for e.g. clarification for seriously ill people and victims of accidents. There should also be a right to more than one offer during the benefit period. New situations may arise; there may also arise the situation that one has the possibility or needs to get another offer but as a right, not as a duty. A national centre should be set up for the development of recruitment and teaching methods, technology for reading, writing and counting vaguely and word-blindly. It is still a huge problem for real, very many people, whom we do not take seriously enough, and what is better than the fact that, during the very period of unemployment, it becomes absolutely central. In the government proposal there were good intentions that there should be less bureaucracy, but unfortunately those intentions have not been met. This is evident from the many conversations of duty. I do not understand why, as my colleague from the SF said, benefit recipients now have to show up for nine interviews during the first six months. It is precisely during the first 6 months that the vast majority of themselves get to work. In the a-box, a CV conversation and two on-call conversations are to be held, and in the job centre six interviews are to be held. As some have mentioned, the activation circus has been replaced by a conversational circus. The many conversations are the abuse of the labour force in the cashiers and job centres and cause an unreasonable burden in both places, and they make members frustrated and disillusioned. That labour could be used better if you said freely to the caseworker: if it is needed, we have a conversation. This must be the starting point, not some new schematic regime, where the activation is then replaced by conversations. The six weeks of self-chosen training are abolished and replaced by six weeks of job-oriented training, which is reserved for some unemployed people. Why on earth would you do that? This means that there are many unemployed people with education who are not now entitled to six weeks of education and that they are no longer free to choose education but can only choose from a positive list. There we propose to ensure that at least all AMU courses are included in the positive list. I strongly reject the great deterioration in job rotation. Six months of pre-employment are now required to get into job rotation. You can only be a substitute in a job rotation position for 6 months, and the municipality only gets 60%. in the reimbursement of the job rotation allowance. All these deteriorations will make job rotation less attractive to both employers, the unemployed and the municipalities. The demands so far that you should only go three months unemployed before you could get into job rotation should be maintained. The period of employment should continue to be up to 12 months of entitlement to daily allowances and the current 100-percent reimbursement should be maintained. The job rotation system is the best tool we have. It is there that most people become firmly associated with the workplace they come up with as temporary workers. Why on earth shouldn't we make it attractive? Why do we have to degrade the best tool we have in the box? After this bill, the G-days are to be gradually abolished by short-term appointments. We are in the Enhedslisten in principle for the G-days to be abolished at all recruitments, but without the employer thereby having a saving. Instead, employers should pay the saved amount into a common pool that benefits the unemployed and does not just end up in the pocket of employers. We are opposed to the abolition of G-days only through shorter employment, because it will stimulate the growth of short-term and temporary employment. All G-days should be abolished in one chop, as gradual abolition will increase administrative trouble. We are opposed to the fact that offers that should be positive should now be used negatively as penalties, and this will be done with the new available testing offers. Try to chew a little bit on the expression available testing offer. Well, thank you, thank you for a great offer, many will say. The only question is to control the unemployed, and there is no offer whatsoever in what is referred to as an on-call test. This gives the job centres both the right and the duty to carry out an on-call assessment, and it should be at the cashier's office. Why do you change so many things in this, which just points to the fact that the single model, i.e. cash benefits as the main model, can lie right at the feet of the bourgeois ones when they get to. I don't understand. We cannot accept the use of useful jobs. They are increasingly used as scare jobs, that is to say, first and foremost as something you put people in, so that they have to be scared away from the public purses, without having been made to know where those people will end up afterwards. Few municipalities have seen that useful jobs may be used for something better, but that is the exception. We also look very seriously at the announced changes in the reimbursement to the municipalities. It is very worrying that the reimbursement should fall over time. It will hit the unemployed, the sick and people with reduced working capacity hard. There should be the same rate of reimbursement for all benefits regardless of the nature of the benefits and regardless of the duration of the benefit. It should be the craftsmen, i.e. the case workers in the municipalities, who assess which activity is the most sensible to which person, and who in this way is based on man and not on what is best for the municipality's treasury. There are already far too many sanctions in the insurance and employment legislation. The creepy mistrust that is gradually becoming unemployed in this country makes it totally legal to say anything. I would say that the Liberal Alliance has not lived in vain when you listen to people around; that is completely indecent what is said. It covers the cynical and suspicious attitude of the conciliation parties towards the unemployed. In our view, the sanctions proposed for one or more days' absence from offers are quite superfluous. As long as you participate in the offer, the absence must be a matter between the unemployed person and the place of training or the employer who else? Why should a third party enter such a relationship? These were the amendments that we had tabled and which I assume the most thoughtful of you will vote in favour of. Before I finish, I would like to read out a greeting from a citizen who was also very frustrated by these things. She writes: The human vision on which one builds is shameless. You're young and irresponsible until you're 30, why you need to be whipped. You're old and useless when you're over 50, why you need to be whipped. You're lazy and delicate if you work outdoors, why you need to be whipped. Seasonal work is a poor excuse, project employment, temporary work, artistic activity as well. If you can't get a lifelong job, it's all your own fault, writes this citizen who sent a greeting here. How on earth can politicians do such a mess? But to end where I started, I would like to say that the worst thing is that this helps to remove even more stones on the road to a one-tier system, on the road to what Karsten Koch talked about at the press conference in the Ministry of Labour when his commission presented the ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151419	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151424	Now I have listened very carefully to the two speeches that have been made here, by Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen and Mr. Christian Juhl. I also noticed that Mr. Christian Juhl started his speech by saying that there was also something sensible and positive to say about the reform of employment. But then it stopped there too, and then there were many thorns that were aired. May I start somewhere else, by thanking both a large and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for the fact that today we are second-reading and, during the week, third-reading and thus adopting the new employment reform. I think that the vast majority of people are showing that we are going to have a reform that is both vision and direction. I can, of course, congratulate the reform, since it is work done by my predecessor, but which I personally would like to pass on to you. I believe that the framework is now being created, and that the guidelines for future employment initiatives are being drawn up. The next thing that many of us will be concerned about is having the reform implemented in real life. There should be no doubt that both the municipalities and the cashiers of the country are waiting for an important task in the new year to also make the intentions of the reform work in real life. We are changing track when it comes to employment efforts. We replace an effort in which all unemployed people were singled out and who could often bear the mark of meaningless activation, with an individual and a job-oriented effort. At the same time, we ensure that Danish companies are now involved and in every way become an important partner, including in raising the weakest in our labour market. So I should just like to say that I am glad that, as Minister for Employment, I am the one who is allowed to dribble the reform here in the House, and I am glad that there is such a large and broad majority behind it; it deserves a reform like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151642	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151645	I would like to hear from the Minister for Labour whether he has not thought about the fact that all this removing the stones, so that employment policy and the things relating to the unemployed are moving closer and closer to the municipalities, poses a great risk. I am still betting that it is not the bourgeois who are going to power after a choice, but the risk is there, and then, when most stones were removed from the road, it would be as easy as nothing just to buzz out there and say: then we will take the a-boxes afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151723	The latter is, if necessary, a political battle which I believe we can be united on. What I think is important here is that the municipalities continue to have a decisive influence on offering their unemployed fellow citizens the best possible opportunity to return to the labour market, on the one hand, by being able to be trained more quickly and, on the other hand, by having close contact with companies. I believe that one of the things that is absolutely essential for us to be able to get unemployed in employment is that the companies that lie exactly in our local area can also get the skilled labour they need. There I think there is an important task in the whole of the reform, in other words as regards the participation of local authorities in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151808	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151810	It was not so clear an answer in terms of fear. I agree that we have to take the fight. But in order to take the fight, we must look with very open eyes at what it is about. Now, when we remove stones which make it easier for others to remove the boxes; when we now see in patching-up after patching-up that it is the amount of cash aid and not the daily allowance that is the starting point for the solutions, is there not a real risk that it will be used by others to say precisely: Hey, we are almost in the finish line, and thank you for helping us? Isn't it part of the fight just to be aware of what happens while you have the power?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151856	Yes. That is also why we need to use the time when we have power/influence to do the right thing, and I think we are doing the right thing with regard to unemployed citizens, namely giving them instruments to get closer to the job market. This is an extremely important task for me. Well, then I'll have to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, I believe that we both know what a majority of 90 mandates can do. You can't stop that. So is democracy. But as I said in my first answer to Mr. Christian Juhl, we must, if necessary, have a common fight, that is, if anyone intends to remove the boxes as we know them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151934	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216151937	The Minister outlines that this is a reform which ensures a more individualised effort. But, as has been said, it is from the platform that all unemployed people are being forced to hold nine interviews in six months' time. In my opinion, this is contrary to an individualised effort. How can the Minister argue that it should be an individually adapted effort when it is the case that all unemployed people are forced to hold nine interviews in half a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152015	In politics, I do not think it is wise to be disappointed, but if I should allow myself to be disappointed for a moment, I may have to be a little disappointed that Mr. Eigil Andersen uses it that we need to get closer to the individual unemployed as an argument that this law is not good. I'd like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen: I think I have the exact opposite view. If we are to treat people with dignity and respect, if we are to build on what competences they have and what competences they may lack, then we need to know the people we are talking about here. That's why this is about respect for the individual. Then you can judge whether nine conversations in six months are very or little. I think it is just right for the job centres and the cashiers to be able to offer a better and more individual offer to the individual unemployed. And I'd like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that if I am right about what I am quite sure I have, then I actually think it is extremely important, because then the unemployed person will actually be at the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152116	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152118	There I think that both the unemployed, the job centre worker and the cashier are much smarter to find out what this is about. I think they can find out in three conversations. And if there is a need for more, the job center can call the person for more conversations. We agree that it should be individually adapted, but that is not what is happening here in the reform. How long does the Minister think it takes before the Folketing has to be brought together, because it has been found that so many conversations are hollow in the head and therefore one has to change it again and reduce the number? I wonder how long it's gonna take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152155	Faith is usually something you do Sunday morning at. 10; but I would like to say that knowledge in this area is good to have with it. In fact, we also have concrete knowledge that getting closer to the individual unemployed helps to ensure that a better way back to the job openings that exist. That is why the whole reform must be seen in context. Therefore, I would like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen: I think that treating the unemployed individually and with respect requires you to get closer and requires you to talk to each other. That is why I believe that this is something that will work and will benefit those people who want to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152234	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216152246	Amendments to Bill No 1 will be put to the vote first. L 58. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment, the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.]. and various other laws. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, 4 and 5 members of the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6, tabled by a minority (SF and EL) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (SF and EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. No. 8, no. 50 and No 56 tabled by the same minority, and Amendment No. 56 tabled by the same minority. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 51 by EL, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 10, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 16 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 19, which has been submitted and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Twelve of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 9 (EL and Jeppe Bruus (S)) voted against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 9 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. No. 3, No. 9 and No 57, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 15 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 16 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end For the amendment 16 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 17 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will be taken at the end For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 18 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 16 (SF and EL), against 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 21 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 20 and No 46 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 22 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 23 and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 31 and No 54, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 24 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. Twenty-five, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. Twenty-six, member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 27 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment, 8 (EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstained from voting on 9 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 29 of a minority (SF and EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 17 (SF and EL), against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 28, no. 32, No. 35 No. 36 and No 38, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 30, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 33 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment 9 (EL and Steen Gade (SF)) voted against 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 34, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 37 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end For the amendment, 8 (EL), against 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 39-45, No 47-49, No 52-53, No 55 and No 58 member of the Committee? They are adopted. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Act on Active Social Policy]. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 59-60, member of the Committee? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 61-63 of a minority (EL) which lapsed after the rejection of Amendment No. 12 to the proposal referred to under A. It has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 64th meeting of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 65 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the amendment, 8 (EL), against 98 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 66, tabled by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 68 and No 70, by a minority (SF and EL), lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 67, No Nos 69 and 69 71, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Then we go on to the amendments to Bill No. L 59. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153258	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153323	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153337	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153352	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153410	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153425	The debate is open. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs if the committee is to be consulted. I should therefore like to ask: is there a request for referral to committee? In the absence of a request for referral to committee, the draft parliamentary resolution goes directly to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141216153509	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 17 December 2014, p.m. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
