ParlaMint-DK_20141118130008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Christian Juhl (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ensuring parliamentary access to important documents in Danish). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130036	Then the first item on the agenda is Question Time with the Prime Minister, and I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the preliminary statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130046	Thank you. Last Thursday, the government, Enhedslisten and SF entered into a finance agreement. It is an agreement that strengthens prosperity and our community and that is a clear continuation of the economic policy that the government has been pursuing for three years now. Our major growth plans are built into next year's Finance Act, and we have money to develop welfare; it is not much money, but enough to bring about targeted improvements. We have made the choice that there should be extra money for health, for the elderly and for children. We are not in favour of zero growth, and that is why, with the Finance Act, we can strengthen common health by over 6 billion. kr. We ensure faster treatment for those too many people who suffer from cancer; we give more help to citizens who live with chronic diseases such as KOL and diabetes; there will be more staff and better help for women who are born; we give more money to medical departments so that the elderly, in particular, can get away from the corridors of hospitals and get home more quickly. The Finance Act also guarantees 1 billion. kr. over four years for the children, and we have that money because we are not in favour of zero growth. We know, of course, that the first year of the children is of great importance for how they do later in life, and that is why we are now giving the municipalities the opportunity to hire more educators and assistants in day nurseries, kindergartens and day care. We also set aside extra money for more home help for the elderly, who need it most. They now get a clipping card for half an hour of extra help a week or an entire hour every two weeks. It is simply up to the individual how the rocks should be used, whether they should be saved for a walk in the swimming pool or to cook at home. It is a concrete difference for the everyday lives of older citizens, and we can afford that because we are pursuing a responsible economic policy. With the Finance Act, we invest in better welfare and we also invest in a secure labour market. We believe that it is important for employees to be united, and that is why we are now increasing the deduction for professional quotas. The previous government cut it down with the Danish People's Party. We are now giving a small tax relief to the 1.3 million Danes who take a joint responsibility. We are in favour of fair conditions in the labour market, which is why we have spent more than 500 million over three years. kr. in the fight against social dumping: controls, security cards, work clauses. And now we're going to put 125 million. kr. Upstairs. The government is acting. What did VKO actually do against social dumping in the '00s? The answer is nothing. On the other hand, they quickly pulled the trigger when it came to phasing in the benefit reform. We have secured up to 4 years' support for unemployed people who have exhausted their benefit rights; we have spent 3.3 billion. kr. to mitigate the consequences of V, K and O's brutal phasing-in of the reform. And with the Finance Act we now spend almost a billion. kr. More. We introduce a cash benefit that provides support for up to 3 years for those who use up the benefit rights in 2015 or in 2016. The government is pursuing a policy of balance, with better conditions for companies, and at the same time we have provided room for us to invest a little more in welfare. Zero growth, on the other hand, will slowly, but surely, lead to worse welfare; zero growth will undermine our community. Zero growth is and remains an experiment, and it is a risky experiment whose consequences the Left still puts in. The Finance Act for 2015 shows a clear direction for the years to come. We look after our welfare society and our community. It's our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130538	Thank you. Then we move on to questions from the party leaders. And I would remind you that in the first round the questioner and the Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time, and then follow two rounds where the questioner and the Minister each have one minute's speaking time. The first is sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130557	Thank you. We have the money, says the PM. That sounds great, but the question is whether that is true. When the government presented its draft budget in August, we were a few who were very concerned that the responsible person went to the edge of the responsible person. No, the government said we've got it under control. However, it was not long before a walk in the children's rooms to draw some pension tax, 15 billion. kr., forward. Revenues that would fall in the future would have to fall in the present to have what was called a buffer... a direct self-acknowledgment that you were completely sniffing the edge. Then there will be an agreement, and I congratulate you on having managed to reach an agreement on the economy on the basis of the government's own parliamentary basis. This contrasts with all the agreements the government has made with, among other things. My party, which has all been characterised by the fact that they have drawn Denmark the right path: two growth agreements, a tax agreement, etc. But now you have chosen the peace of the castle with your friends. And what has come of it? I'm sorry, nothing. And what I really want to ask the Prime Minister is whether the Prime Minister will explain where the private jobs are in this financial agreement. As I see it, we are living in an uncertain time. There are uncertain growth estimates for Germany; a situation in Ukraine that affects Danish exports; signals from the G20 summit, which is not very optimistic. And in the middle of it, the PM says, "We have the money." Well, the money has to be made before it can be used, and the money is made in private Danish workplaces. Where are the 5 000 jobs that would be in the continuation of the housing job scheme? Where are the 2 000 private jobs that could lie in adjusting the harmony requirements in Danish agriculture, i.e. how the relationship is between animal units and land, to something similar to EU standards 2,000 jobs? Where are the 1,300 jobs that could lie in breaking up with the five-fold NO x What is the Prime Minister's response to the President of the NNF and the President of the FTF, who, along with me, is calling for growth initiatives on top of this financial agreement? Where is it that this financial agreement that has been concluded creates more new private Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130834	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130836	I think it is a clear point of departure from the Left that it is said that this bill of finance leads to nothing for the elderly, who are given the opportunity to get a clipping card so that they can have some experiences they choose; nothing for the children who get more educational staff around them, so that help can be provided during a day; nothing for the cancer patients, which over the next few years we set aside 6 billion. kr. to. Is it nothing? Perhaps that is the difference in Danish policy, that is to say, that we want, while at the same time managing the economy, to have adopted two growth packages together with the Left, and I would like to sign for that and have given good relations with the companies, to ensure that our public sector develops. And it probably underlines the difference in Danish politics that the Left then believes that what we do for the elderly, for the children and for those who have a very serious disease like cancer is nothing. I guess we just disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130945	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118130948	I can't see the difference there. I'm asking questions in the east, and the Prime Minister is answering in the west. However, I acknowledge that after all there is something similar to an answer. However, it is an improvement on what else we have experienced in these questions with the Prime Minister. But I did ask where the private jobs are here. I have seen that there is a small piece of equipment in the health service, something smaller than the one we played out with in our draft budget, but peace be to it. In this context too, I regret that it was not we who became a financial partner; then we could have lifted the health service a little more than what is now being done. But that's not what I was asking. I asked where the new private jobs are in this draft budget. What happened to the 5 000 jobs associated with the housing job scheme? What happened to the 2 000 private jobs that could be linked to the liberalisation of our agricultural policy and bringing it into line with the European Union? What about the 1,300 private Danish jobs that could lie in breaking up with the five-fold NO x? That's what I was asking. Now I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131055	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131057	I would really like the Left to put forward a comprehensive economic plan. Because then we would see that it is simply not true that the Left has more than 6 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. That is why it is a bit like discussing with a totally blind partner when you hear that the Left will really try to deceive the people, that you have more money for health than a government and a parliamentary basis that has said no to zero growth. That is not true, and it is not right for the voters to try to deceive them. After all, we have created the private jobs together. We've made two growth plans together. Some of it has not even been fully implemented yet; it will be quite quiet. But if you just look at the Danish economy, you see that it is extremely positive that, since the turn of 2013, 36,000 more people have entered employment. Most of them are in the private sector. It is therefore extremely positive that this has happened, and that is a good sign for the Danish economy. So the policy pursued by the government for three years now has brought unemployment down, it has managed the economy, it has got more people in employment, especially private employment, while at the same time we have been able to afford to develop the public sector. And I'd like to know exactly where sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is unhappy with that policy. Then we could have a real discussion about where Denmark is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131236	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131238	It's quite obvious where I'm unhappy. We can, of course, take our draft budget; we can do so, for example. I think that we have set out to build up health at a level of 1 billion. kr. next year, which is something more than what the government is doing, but you could also see that is what is relevant to the discussion that I have tried to raise with the privilege of asking questions to the Prime Minister, who is in question time. • that if our recipe had been followed, there would have been something more sustainable growth in terms of private jobs. The Prime Minister isn't answering the question. Now the Prime Minister is talking about who's blind. Well, I think you have to be deaf not to be able to hear that the Prime Minister is not answering what the Prime Minister is being asked about. But I'm still trying a third time here where time runs out. Would the Prime Minister not be so kind as to point out where this financial agreement brings more growth in terms of private jobs? When I am so concerned about it, it is because we still have an unemployment problem, but first and foremost we need to ensure long-term welfare. I'll get back to it later when I have a little more time. It's okay to sprinkle out some sugar, and it's okay to put the Danes in perspective, that if year after year you can do one and the third, but it has to be durable; the money must be earned first. In a world around us that stands still, where unsafe signals are being sent, with Russia, which is no longer a major importer of Danish goods, with Germany, which has gone down in gear, there is a need to keep its nose in the track and to bet on sustainable growth, and that is why it is so unfortunate that the government has chosen those you have chosen and made an agreement where you sprinkle a little sugar out. It is not because I am against sugar, but it must be sprinkled on a durable basis, and the durable basis is crumbling for the government. Where are the jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131430	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131432	But the bottom line here, I would say to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, is that the Left has something against what is so a little scornfully called sugar. It has something to do with the fact that year by year we want to develop our welfare society and strengthen the community. For the Left, we must have zero growth. We're going to have 0 kroner. more to our public sector. In this way, we have something against what we have done in this year's Finance Act, where we are giving a little more to the elderly, a little more to the medical patients who are lying on the corridors, a little more to women who are giving birth, a little more to our children and much more to those who have deadly diseases, such as AIDS. cancer or chronic disorders. That's it, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen chooses to call sugar. We don't. We are pursuing a policy that is double. We are pursuing a growth policy which has ensured that, since the turn of the year, there is an answer to that question, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is placing 36,000 more in employment, that unemployment is lower now than it has been for many, many years, except for those years of overheating. That is what our policy is all about: unemployment down, more people in employment and, at the same time, we must ensure that we are able to develop our welfare societies. You have to say it the way it is in the left. That's the last thing you're against. We do not want to develop our welfare societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131601	The questions are exhausted. Yes, and then we'll start the next one). Then we'll get to the next question. I also need to know the rules of the game. It's okay).
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131624	That's good, too, so I can get the blood pressure down, so it's completely thought out, since I'm saying this is nonsense. I myself have stood for a few of the cancer packages we have made in Denmark for the showdown against the waiting lists, to make a structural reform in Danish health care, which has made a back then not so good health care something better.We are not in the goal yet and the Prime Minister speaks out against better knowledge when she paints a picture that the Left will not give priority to health. However, as the Prime Minister rightly says, we are pursuing a dual policy. Yeah, I'll give you that. There are double standards here. When I ask about the money and ask about the growth, it is because there are some things that start to worry me, and I realise the outlines of the Prime Minister's repeating the bluff of 2011. 2011 was when the Finance Minister was chief strategist in the Social Democratic Party and on the back of a napkin made exciting plans for fair solution and fair change, which, as soon as they were subject to the Treasury's calculations, coincided with • I think it was 37 billion. kr. There were no limits to all the good you could get. It fell to the ground with a splash. What are we seeing now? We see a government that's all the way to the edge of the responsible. We see a government that in a number of areas is leaving holes behind. Let me just mention some of them. There's a train fund of 28.5 billion. kr., which will never fill 28.5 billion. kr. with the current oil prices that we have. There is the whole question of the asylum area, where you pretend that it is a problem that will disappear before the financial law has to be made again. One does not even take the trouble to translate the savings on development aid which, after all, have caused the Enhedslisten to swallow, because they say that the last half billion we will be looking at this autumn if it is needed. There is the whole question of property valuations hanging in the air. There is the whole question of making emergency savings. There is the whole question of the savings in vocational schools. There is the whole question of tax exemption on electric cars with losses of revenue. Everything that is lying and flowing out there, you do not relate to, while at the same time you try to create a picture that is in control and the money is there. That is why I would just like to ask one thing: can the Prime Minister guarantee me that with the Finance Act which has now been laid down for adoption here in the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister can guarantee that at no time in 2015 we will be in carambola with EU rules on claims for deficits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131909	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118131912	I think it is interesting that the government which has brought Denmark out of the recommendation made by the previous government with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen at the head got Denmark into, now gets scolded that we have managed the Danish economy. I do not think that there is a single person observing Danish economy who can be in doubt that things are going much better now than they were three years ago. After all, we all comply with the framework for what we must comply with in the Danish economy. The Danish economy has an AAA rating from the major agencies, and so not all economies in Europe actually have quite a few. We support the economy because growth will not recover as quickly as we want, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen must also answer how his own budget is linked. A financial law agreement has been submitted, which will open up the budgets of the municipalities. Those who are responsible in the municipalities say that this cannot be done. So even in the first financial act that the Left has to present, things are falling apart. We comply with budget law. We are complying with the framework we need within the European Union. We have got Denmark out of the recommendation that the previous government brought us into. Denmark's economy is going better, in terms of employment rising, unemployment has gone down, and then Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was a big part of creating all this mess, to blame us for the fact that we have now cleaned up the Danish economy. He should actually thank us for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132046	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132048	But if we are to thank each other, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for having taken the course we recommended before the elections after the elections. Because it is true that Denmark is on track in many ways, a track we made before the election: pre-retirement reform, unemployment benefit reform, calm around the public budgets. That's all that was supposed to disappear at the time, based on these serviette calculations: A Fair Solution, Fair Change, it's all magical in 12 minutes, then there's a money rain on the municipalities, there's two teachers in all the school rooms, and so on. etc. The Prime Minister stayed on the trail that we others laid out, perhaps made the biggest electoral deception of the century, but fine, it was good for Denmark. What I care about now is whether it will continue to be good for Denmark now that the Prime Minister is apparently recreating the trick from 2011, namely to convince the people that things are under control. Can I not ask a very specific question? a very specific question: Can the Prime Minister explain to me why the bill included in the Energy Minister's legislative programme on the electricity supply law, which deals with the wholesale model, should enter into force only in 2016 and not in 2015, as was the government's first intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132208	Now I can hear that mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen can't really find out what arguments he has to choose to criticise the government. One day we are being reproached that we have done everything that the Left would have done before the elections, and today we are being reviled by the fact that we are running down the Danish economy. But now, sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen chooses: Are we following the economic policy that was planned before the election, or are we driving the Danish economy down? The truth is now neither. The truth is that we are pursuing an economic policy which at the same time keeps our hands on employment, because we do not have an economy and growth that is still self-supporting, and we have managed the Danish economy so that we no longer have unpaid bills when we open the drawers. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. We are pursuing a sustainable economic policy and it even works. More people are in employment, we have the lowest unemployment rate for many years. But Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has presented a budget just for next year that does not last, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen refuses to present a long-term budget for the coming years. It would, of course, be very much easier to discuss with the Left if we presented a programme of what we really want to do if we were to win the elections. We would then be able to have a good discussion on these issues. Now when I do not answer the last question that was asked, I shall try to do so in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132338	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132340	Yes, it might have been where it would be so much easier to have a discussion if you replied to what you were asked about, but then I can answer it. For when the government no longer wants to implement what the government has put forward in its legislative catalogue, this is due to the fact that, and now I quote directly from the bill in consultation: The purpose of postponing the introduction of the wholesale model until 1 March 2016 is to avoid that the expected one-off deficit of the introduction of the wholesale model of 1 billion. kr. falls in 2015 to ensure that Denmark stays within the deficit line of the EU Stability and Growth Pact in 2015. Well, that sounds tricky, but what does that mean? This means that the government is so far out on the verge that the legislative proposals that were put forward to Parliament when the Folketing opened up cannot even be implemented; they have to be pushed into the future. They cannot be financed within the framework of the economy we have. Instead, small welfare improvements have been done. I'd like to buy into some of them, among others. in the field of health. It should have been bigger, and so have we. These are small improvements in welfare, which are then expected to increase to billions in the year two, three, four, five, if you are again entrusted with power. But there is no room for it at all, and point by point the government is now leaving holes which it will either have huge problems filling out if it should win the next parliamentary elections or which complicates the lives of those who may take over. That is why the government is in the process of doing the same thing that we saw in 2011, which is to deceive the people of Europe. Can the Prime Minister confirm that once this proposal from the Minister of Energy has been pushed 1 year, it is because there is no means of implementing it at the planned time within the framework of the Danish economy, if you are not to come into conflict with EU recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132529	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132531	Work on finding a solution for the wholesale model has been rather complicated, and therefore it has been necessary to postpone the implementation from October 2015 to March 2016, so we do. I'd like to arrest it, too, as Mr. Simpson did. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says. On the one hand, he says that everything we want to do in relation to health is not affordable. On the other hand, he says that he would actually like to spend more money on health himself. Again, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that both things cannot be right at the same time... especially when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen pleads for zero growth in the public sector. If you want to spend more money on health, you have to save in other areas. What the Left owes to the people is to present a plan not just for one year, but for 2, 3, 4 years for what this should look like. The government has put forward a plan. The government has presented a plan for how the economy and welfare will look in the next few years. When does the Left come up with their plan? I think it is up to the people to give these explanations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132636	Thank you. And then the question is exhausted. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as head of the Danish People's Party, 2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132651	Thank you. You're sitting in the chair, and you're really looking forward to getting up, if only to say so first, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has a point in relation to the edge and Finance Act for 2015. But I will come back to that on another occasion. For what concerns me a great deal today is the fact that the Prime Minister has been kind enough to invite you to a meeting this afternoon at 8 p.m. 15.30, and there was actually a journalist out here who came to ask me if I was looking forward to the meeting. I had time to say yes, because I thought it had to be because the journalist had a knowledge that I was invited to the meeting. But that did not turn out to be quite right, because it is of course only those parties that want more of the European Union to be invited to the meeting. So it is the party leaders from the so-called EU positive parties, I understand the name that has been invited to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office this afternoon about the legal reservation. I think there are a lot of Danes who basically think that it is a little unsympathetic that the way in which Denmark's EU policy is organised in this House is by talking only to those who declare themselves prepared in advance for more EU action. Because there are a lot of Danes who actually want less EU and more Denmark, but they will not be represented in the negotiations. We must then try to make our influence felt, among other things. Here. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister, since she has now called that meeting today, whether it is because the government is prepared to tackle the challenges that are actually facing the European Union as well. And this is not only the debate on the reservation of law and Europol it is a discussion that we have also had here in the past, but also the other issues of the European Union, such as the United States and Japan. the question of the right of other EU citizens to welfare benefits in Denmark. We have had long discussions in the past about the children's check which is being sent out of the country; we have legislation today that does not fit with the administration that the government has. After all, the government sends children's cheques to children resident in other EU countries because it believes it is obliged to do so on the recommendation of the European Commission, but the Danish law actually says that children must be in Denmark and that there must be an income principle in order to obtain the child's check. Is this an issue that the Prime Minister will deal with in the negotiations that are now coming, so that you get these things done and ensure that it is the Danish law that applies, of course, in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132903	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118132905	When I have called for negotiations, it is because I announced in my opening speech back in October that I want to transform our legal reservation into an opt-in system. And that means that we can choose what we in the Danish Parliament think is good for Denmark, namely to maintain the status quo in the area of asylum and aliens. As I have understood the Danish People's Party through the many discussions that I have with the Danish People's Party on EU policy, I have seen that the Danish People's Party does not think it is a good idea to transform our legal reservation into an electoral system, and that is why the Danish People's Party is not, as a starting point, part of the group of parties that will discuss this transformation. That's how it is at Christiansborg. It is the case that those with whom we have an agreement on certain areas are sitting down and negotiating, and we are doing so in so many other areas, and of course we are doing so in the European Union too. But if the Danish People's Party has changed its mind and wants the reservation to be converted into an electoral system, then it is very welcome. But that has not been my impression so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133015	Sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133018	So it had nothing to do with my question at all. What I asked was very specific, and it was whether the other EU issues would be addressed in those negotiations. I specifically referred to the other things, and not to the legal reservation, because I know the Prime Minister's view on that, but I did not get an answer at all. I asked about the welfare benefits for migrant workers, I asked about the issue of children's checks, where today we have legislation that sets out conditions for obtaining child checks in this country, which the government does not administer because it has chosen to administer according to some other rules agreed with the European Commission. That's what I asked, and that's whether you're gonna solve those things. Now it is often, when I am up here, that I have seen that the Prime Minister has, in fact, spoken to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been up here, she has sometimes spoken to me when I sat down there. As far as the meeting that is to take place this afternoon is concerned, I was delighted that the Left has made firm demands on the government in order to reach a European political agreement. I should also like to ask another question: has the Prime Minister now come to the conclusion that she will meet the demands since she now believes that it is possible to reach a European political agreement? The demands are three things that need to be met in order to make an EU agreement with the government, says the Left. One is that a solution has been found for the children's check. The second is that a solution must be found to the rights of EU citizens to welfare benefits. And the third is that a date should be set for a referendum on the reservation of rights. I think the last thing the government and the Left can agree on quite quickly, but can we also agree on this with children's cheques and other EU citizens' rights to welfare benefits, by the way? Because at least I'm very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133146	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133148	I would recommend that we do what we have to do with screens among the blue parties, because this could be an extremely long debate. But to answer the question: No, we are not going to discuss any other issues than this opt-in system. Because what's important in this context, and that's kind of what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl started with, because one was very outraged that one was not invited to join us is that if Denmark does not act, we risk getting out of Europol cooperation. And that means that if we in Denmark want to be ahead of the criminals and, so to speak, be able to work with the police in other countries to fight the criminals, we must also be able to continue to be in Europol fully. We cannot do that if we do not change our reservations to an option model, and that is what I have taken the initiative to discuss with the parties concerned with changing our reservations into an option model. I understand again that this is not what the Danish People's Party is concerned with, but if there has been a change there, you are welcome. But that is the subject of our debate this afternoon, and not so much else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133255	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133257	In other words, we have proposed many times that a parallel agreement be negotiated with the other countries; the government does not touch a finger. So you only want to find a solution on one track, a certain track, namely where more sovereignty is given, and that is how we know the government when it comes to the European Union, unfortunately. But I can only be quietly delighted that the meeting that has been convened for 8 a.m. 15.30, can already be estimated to produce nothing at all. In other words, clear, firm demands have been made, and they have been made publicly, about what it takes to reach a European political agreement between the parties invited. And then I can only welcome the fact that it is not possible to do so if the Prime Minister refuses in advance to find a solution to the issue of children's cheques, for example. Eastern Europeans. In other words, sometimes people don't think it's right when we say that children's cheques are sent from Slotsholmen in Copenhagen to children living in Romania or Poland or elsewhere, and that's a check for children at Danish level. It does not take place in relation to Danish legislation, because Danish legislation contains some other conditions. But that is the way the government has chosen to administer it since last summer, and we can then welcome the fact that at least one of the parties is going to negotiate with the Prime Minister, who has said that it must be resolved in order to reach a European political agreement. We can then see and say to all those who otherwise had an interest in following the sitting at 1 p.m. 15.30 that it is probably not worthwhile, because it does not seem that any solution will come out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133419	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133422	I shall not interfere at all in the whole debate that appears to be between the Danish People's Party and the Left, it can be a bloody and murderous meeting that is to be there. You have to figure out how to solve that challenge yourself. But I would recommend Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to get a little down on the ground. Because what we need to discuss is how Denmark can continue to participate in Europol cooperation. That's what this is all about. If we do nothing, we will get out of Europol cooperation. The government estimates that it has a parallel agreement, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is so preoccupied with, similar to a B membership where you don't have any influence on the whole package. Why should we tell the Danes that they should have a B membership when we can have an A membership? However, this is a fair discussion which we must take with the Danes in a referendum. Our simple business at the meeting that I will be holding later today is about discussing how Denmark can become a member of Europol by choosing that arrangement. It may be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will discuss all sorts of other things, but that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133522	Thank you. Then go to the next asker, and this is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133528	I would like to start by commending the Prime Minister, because we have just landed a good red Finance Act, in which we lift the welfare and improve conditions for a great many people, as the Prime Minister also said in his introduction. Well, there are still outstanding issues, for example. The benefits, but the work on the Finance Act shows how much progress the centre-left can make when we do it together and what the alternative that the blues will deliver is: zero growth and scraped welfare. That is not what I wanted to ask the Prime Minister today. There is another issue on which I hope we can also find common ground. There has recently been a great deal of debate about party support, openness, business clubs, privileged meetings for paying guests, etc. I am sure that the Social Democratic Party will abide by all the rules in force. But what about the forthcoming revision of the rules by the Prime Minister? It has come to light recently that Danske Bank gave 0.5 million. kr. in party support for the blue parties before the 2011 elections, without the name of the bank being shown in the records of the parties. This shows quite clearly that the rules as they are today do not work enough. For the SF, it is important for citizens to be able to see quite clearly who supports which parties with significant amounts, so that people have the opportunity to assess how much parties are in the pocket of special interests, and this should also apply, even if the money is channelled through so-called business clubs. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will support the idea that in future all names and significant amounts given to political parties should be brought to light, even if they are channelled through, for example, political parties. a business club.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133711	Thank you. I would like to ask for a little more tranquillity in the back of the Chamber. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133717	Yes, indeed. The rules are such that if you give over 20,000 kroner, it will be published by name who contributes to the parties. And regardless of how you organize yourself in a party, whether you have business clubs, whether you take quotas or what you do, the rules are the same for everyone: If more than a certain amount is given • now we have decided that it is 20,000 DKK. This is a good arrangement and I hope that we will be able to improve it in the near future. The government has put on our legislative programme that we want to look at this area, so we hope to be able to improve that. But until then it must be the case that all parties, I hope, follow those rules to the letter. Now I can speak most for my own party, the Socialists, and I can guarantee that we do. If we have criticized the professional clubs of other parties in the past, it is because it has been suspected that professional clubs were used not to follow the rules, but my own party, the Socialists, could not dream of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133817	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133819	I'm glad to hear that. I see it as a message from the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister would like to help clean up hidden contributions from business clubs, so that we do not see in the future that large contributions such as those we saw in connection with Danske Bank appear in the party accounts. Will that also be part of what the government's bill will contain?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133839	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133841	I cannot go into the draft law any further; for good reasons we are not finished with that, as long as we are also waiting for a report on this whole subject. However, I would like to say that I cannot figure out how a particular bank can give so much money without it being published, and that is why we must of course look at whether it is actually something that is happening. What I can say is that, of course, I hope that all parties, regardless of how they organise themselves with professional clubs, will follow the rules that exist. And the rules are simple: if more than DKK 20,000 is paid, the name of the donor must be given, so that there is complete clarity as to who is contributing to the parties. It is in many ways a very good arrangement; it can certainly be improved in the future, and I hope that we can do this together here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133927	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118133929	The SF will take a positive view of this, because we think that the way in which we have been able to see, for example. Danske Bank has also provided other sponsors, among other things. the blue parties in 2011 a huge bag of money, helping to distort democracy. The citizens simply have a right to know who supports the various parties and what they really get in return. Is there such a veil over it? So SF will then be very positive and open to looking at a bill that gets this out in the open. And I think the PM's announcement is a support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134004	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134006	After all, we have said that we are bringing forward a legislative proposal to increase transparency about party support, and we are naturally looking forward to negotiating this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134014	Thank you. Then that is the next question in the line, and that is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134025	Thank you. I would also like to ask about party support, but Prime Minister, that is not true. The point is that if you give money through a business club, it will not be published where the money comes from. That is why there has been criticism of the business clubs that have channeled money into the right-wing parties. Now we in Berlingske have been able to read how Danske Bank has been able to channel a lot of money into the right-wing parties, which I think is morally deeply problematic, so that as a citizen of Denmark you cannot get to know. If sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been negotiating bank packages, which have so much favoured certain banks and which Danske Bank has made a lot of money on, I think it is quite reasonable that all citizens in this country are told: Danske Bank has given money to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's campaign account. But the citizens of Denmark are not being told that today, because the money is being given through business clubs. That is the law today, and that is why I would like to know: what is the Prime Minister's position on that method? For that, among other things. Left does, isn't illegal. But I think it's morally wrong. What is the Prime Minister's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134142	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134144	No matter how money is given, the rules are the same. This means that if more than DKK 20,000 is given, you have to publish who is giving the money, and that is whether it is given to a business club or someone else. I shall not be able to say whether the rules have been circumvented, but the rules are such that, regardless of how the money is given, it must be stated that more than 20,000 kroner are being given.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134209	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134211	However, Prime Minister, one of the reasons why the government has set up this committee is precisely that you want to find out how to solve the problem that there are companies, for example. Danske Bank, who puts the money into a business club, then gives it to the parties of the right, and then it just says the name of the business club. It doesn't say Danske Bank. That is the whole reason why this working group has been set up. That is why I would like to know: what is the Prime Minister's position on the fact that there are business clubs operating in this way? And what is the government's view that there are business clubs that operate in this way? Does the Prime Minister think that it should be the case that money should no longer be channeled into a business club and then afterwards into the parties, without the citizens of Denmark being told that the sender of that amount was actually, for example, in Denmark? Danske Bank? So, are we finally going to have that openness in Denmark? Should we change the rules in Denmark so that we have that openness? We do not have that openness today. What the Left is doing is not illegal, but I do not think it is right either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134319	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134321	I don't know what the Left is doing. You have to talk to the Left about that. My opinion is being asked. I'm asked if I think it's okay. No, I don't think it's okay if you can't see where the money comes from when the amount is over $20,000. And that is also why the business clubs of different parties have been discussed. The social democrats' business club is set up in such a way that if you give more than DKK 20,000, it will be published where the money comes from. For there must of course be exactly the same rules for a business club as there is for everyone else. So that is my position on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134354	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134356	Well, I thought it was nice to clarify. Then we must expect that when the working party, which the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, as far as I remember, is in charge, we will have new rules in Denmark, which means that this one, I think, is a bogus construction, where you can stuff the money into some secret money clubs and thus avoid Danske Bank being in the party accounts, it is over. I think that was a clear message from the Prime Minister, and I would like to sign for that. Following on from that, I would like to ask: now the Social Democratic Party has also set up such a money club. I think it's expensive to pay $15,000. I mean, it's an hour to hang out with the finance minister, but people have to do that. It's free market forces and something like that. Nevertheless, I owe a million dollars, says Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, yes, should we understand the fact that all the money channelled into this new Social Democratic Money Club will appear in the Party Accounts of the Social Democratic Party? A concrete example: If a private company chooses to say that it pays DKK 100,000. to the new Social Democratic Money Club, so there should not just be the Social Democratic Money Club in the Social Democratic Party accounts. Then it has to say who that company is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134514	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134516	Yes, of course. It goes without saying, and I would still say that if you do not, you are on the verge of what is actually allowed in relation to these professional clubs. Because you have to publish it, and that's why we could never dream of not doing it. Then you have to ask other parties what they are doing in this regard. But of course it has to be made public who it is that contributes if the amount is over 20,000 DKK. That's the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134539	Thank you. Then the next questioner is in line, sir. Anders Samuelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134548	I have one question: What does the Prime Minister expect growth to be in Denmark in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134558	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134601	It's hard to say at this point. We are continuously suggesting how we expect growth to be. However, we will make a statement in December and, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has said in the past, we will probably have to adjust downwards in relation to the previous assessment that has been made in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134624	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134628	If the government is to adjust downwards, what does it mean for the consistency of the financial law that has just been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134635	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134637	There is no doubt that the Finance Act is linked. It is linked both in the short and in the long term. We have our 2020 plan and we comply with all the rules to the letter. And that's the amazing thing about what the government has done... we've got the Danish economy under control. Three years ago, Danish economy was not very well managed. One could hardly find a year in which the municipalities respected their budgets; they now do. We are complying with the budget law, we are complying with the Stability and Growth Pact, we are complying with all the frameworks for the Danish economy. We are getting a little bit of growth; employment is on the way up, unemployment is on the way down. So in this way, Danish economy has come under control. At the same time, we have been given the opportunity to invest in some of the things that we think are important: health, the elderly and children. Some people call that sugar and indifferent, but the government believes that both managing the economy, creating growth and then also developing our welfare society is what we want to stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134739	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134741	Now we have met down here many times, and a situation has arisen in which the Prime Minister consistently refuses to answer questions. That is why I tried to test it by asking a very brief, precise question. And the PM wouldn't answer. I asked: what does it have to do with consequences if growth is not what is expected in the Finance Act? And the PM replied bypass and said it's all connected. Of course it doesn't. If there is not 2% growth next year, but 11⁄2%. Or 1%, the Finance Act doesn't have anything to do with it. And so you've been out promising gifts without having the funding for it. There is already a deficit of 60 billion in the budget that has been proposed. kr. You go all the way to the edge. Sydbank does not believe in 2% growth, Jyske Bank does not believe in 2% growth, Danske Bank does not believe that it is related, Professor Bo Sandemann Rasmussen does not believe that the prerequisites of the Finance Act hold, and the wise men guess 11⁄2% growth. How can one say that a sound and coherent financial law has been concluded and then stand down here and actually say that we are counting on a downward adjustment, but it is still linked? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134855	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118134857	But it hangs And you can see in our 2020 plan that unlike everyone else in this Parliament, we're making plans where everything is calculated, where we use common methods of calculation and where we put forward how things are related towards 2020. With regard to growth, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior said some time ago that we are probably going to downgrade the growth estimate in the forecast we are making in December. But that does not change the long-term coherence of our economy. I just need to make sure that Mr. Knox... Anders Samuelsen has understood, because when the National Bank, the Economic Council and the European Commission look forward in their very latest forecasts, they expect not only that progress will continue but that it will also move forward. So I think we have a very good basis for saying that not only is the economy linked, but we are also not the only ones who think so; those who monitor the Danish economy from outside actually agree with us that growth is going too slowly, but that it is going to happen in the coming years. It is very possible that Mr. Anders Samuelsen is not satisfied with that answer and that he does not agree with the answer, but it is the answer that there is not a single party in this Parliament who has succeeded in putting forward an economic plan showing that it is under control. The Left is putting forward a budget bill that is full of holes; the Liberal Alliance will not stand by the fact that their financial legislative proposals and their economic plans will result in massive cuts in the public sector. And that way it's really hard to argue with each other. There can be no question that the government has created order in the Danish economy and that at the same time we can afford to develop the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135047	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, of the Conservative People's Party, who is a parliamentary management representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135058	After all, the government has been characterised by two things: an economy that has come to a complete standstill and an unprecedented zigzag course in relation to labour market policy. Last year we made a cash aid reform together, and it was just before you wanted to give the government a bear frame, because it was good: it got more people away from public support. However, since then, and before we were able to say more in jobs, the government has introduced a new service together with the extreme left, which maintains more on public support. You could say emergency job arrangements, you could say labour market benefits and now, most recently, cash benefits. But that does not stop here, because last week's Finance Act changed the government in the cash aid reform that we joined together last year. This means, among other things, that the dependent is dropped. It ensured the healthy principle that you take care of yourself and your family first before asking your neighbor for help. What is worse, however, is also the choice to increase the benefits to young people on cash benefits, so that we withdraw them further from the labour market and from education. That is strange, because in the past, the policy of the government was not to let young people waste valuable months and years of their lives on cash aid, as the then Minister for Employment put it. The former president of the social workers expressed it even more clearly, and now there is a small quote from her: I will not go out and fight for the complete functioning of young people who could start an education and who really just go ass, because they don't really bother, to have a higher performance than the SU. ▪ Now these young people are getting a higher performance than SU. So it becomes more attractive to be on cash benefits than in education. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135246	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135249	Well, it is true that we have made some changes to the cash assistance system, which means that we no longer have this mutual obligation to try to do so. We hope to be able to achieve that. After all, it is up to the electorate to decide whether it can be implemented. It's not something the government has been so concerned about. This was something that our support parties were concerned with, and since it had proved quite difficult to manage that scheme, we really thought it was a good idea to do it. In relation to this youth benefit, we still have the basic model of youth benefit, and I think that is quite right. Because it has to be the case for young people that it is not worth their while to be on cash benefits. If they can at all, they must take a job or get into an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135332	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135334	It is true that the then Minister for Employment said to Berlingske in February: • Quite a lot of our young people experience that if they are going to start an education at SU level, they have to go down in income. No matter how you turn it, it's just a really, really wrong system malfunction. There I have to say that I fully agree that it is a system error, because it seems strange that the benefits for cash benefits are higher than the SU. It must always pay better to work or to be in education. So I would just like to ask: when did the Prime Minister find out that it is no longer a real, really wrong system error for young people to go down in income when they take an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135420	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135422	But they still have to do so; some young people do not have to do so anymore. And now we've done this because you're not mutually supportive of cash benefits if you're not married, and you can mean a lot of different things about that. Basically, it was very difficult to manage because it is actually difficult to find out who is living together in such a way, or whether you just live together. So it has been very difficult to manage, and that is why we are comfortable with having accepted what Enhedslisten and SF were involved in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135452	But it is a pity, a pity, that it is difficult to administer. That must never be the decisive factor in the policy we are pursuing. For me, it is absolutely crucial that it is worth taking a job, that it is worth getting into education, and I do not think the Prime Minister answered my questions. And that is why I would ask the Prime Minister to take a very specific view: when was it that it was no longer a really wrong system error when these young people go down in income and so it is no longer worth being in work or in education, but the government says that it is okay that they are just on public support?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135530	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135533	But it is still the case for young people that many of them receive a benefit corresponding to the SU, and that is the way it should be. Because it has to be the case that there is a cash incentive for young people to take an education rather than be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135547	Thank you. It was the end of Question Time with the Prime Minister, and then we move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135559	If no one objects to the promotion of this request, I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135634	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118135705	Thank you. Less than half of all Danes are in work, and close to 800,000 Danes of working age are on transfer income. This creates considerable pressure on public finances, which is why it is crucial that more Danes get to work, so that more people contribute to prosperity and welfare. The Danish employment system is among the world's most expensive. We spend 8 billion each year. kr. In addition to the active employment effort, the cost of managing the employment effort and providing public support of some 72 billion. kr. At a time when every penny has to be turned around to ensure that we get as much money as possible, it is essential that we spend the money where it does the most good. The main aim of this employment reform and employment efforts is to get the unemployed back to work. And as the text of the agreement states, the employment effort must at all times support Denmark's well-functioning and flexible labour market with low structural unemployment and high employment. Yes, that is why the organisation of our employment system is absolutely central. For the Left, the point marks for a reform of employment efforts have been that the money should be better spent, that it should pay off to work, that the unemployed should return to jobs more quickly, that the unemployed should be at the centre and that the administration should be made cheaper and more efficient. The outcome of the conciliation on the reform of the employment effort is reflected in the two legislative proposals, L 58 and L 59, and the reform aims to ensure that more unemployed people obtain employment as soon as possible; that the unemployed meet with individual, meaningful and job-oriented efforts; that the unemployed can get a real training boost if they need it; that training efforts are targeted at the unemployed with the greatest needs and company demand for labour. In addition, it is a question of business services and job placement becoming a core task in the job centres so that companies can get the workforce they need, and that rules and bureaucracy are removed, so that municipalities have the maximum freedom of action and thus can focus on the results rather than on the processes. The reform ensures that the employment effort focuses on companies' needs for labour and real job placement, and that the municipalities and the cashiers are given more freedom to organise an individually adapted effort for the unemployed. Resources must therefore be used in a better and more efficient way, so that more people enter employment as soon as possible. It is crucial for the Left that the job centres maintain the authority's responsibility for active action, while the cashiers continue to hold the initial CV interview and continuously assess the unemployed. The reform focuses on individual and early efforts. The unemployed must meet with a meaningful and individual effort undertaken earlier than is the case today, and this must be done in particular with a view to preventing longterm unemployment. The individual and early effort involves a joint and intensified contact process, that all unemployed people are given the right and obligation to an active offer, and that we focus on the company-oriented approach in order to ensure that it is on the companies that you get internship and in wage subsidies. That's where the job openings are created. That's where we can make sure that the unemployed get to work as soon as possible. The reform must also increase the focus on real qualification in the effort and more job-oriented training, so that the unemployed have more skills that companies demand. A real opportunity must be created for a real training boost, and therefore a right to 6 weeks of job-oriented training is also introduced, which can be selected from a positive list which determines the courses covered by the scheme. The reform gives more responsibility and strengthened access to the individual. The unemployed must thus have a greater influence on efforts to strengthen their chances of getting to work, and with greater participation and greater freedom of choice for the individual citizen there is also a need for stronger follow-up at their disposal. For this purpose, job search activities are sought in a job log, which among other things. assess whether the job search is sufficient to enable the unemployed person to meet the requirement of active job search. Then we also need to focus more on the country's businesses and their needs. Business services and job placement must be a core task for the job centres so that companies can get the manpower they need. In addition, business-oriented services need to be better used so that more people gain more experience, networks, relationships in the labour market. The wage subsidy schemes shall include: simplification and targeting, and the rules on public and private wage subsidies need to be harmonised to a greater extent. As part of the overall employment reform, a reimbursement change is also being carried out with effect from 2016, and from day one of these negotiations, the Left has maintained that money can be found in the employment system, money that can be spent on further job creation, and it has also succeeded in the reform of the employment system that we have made and in the growth agreement we made together this summer. We will have a more effective employment effort, which will result in savings of 1.35 billion in total. kr. In addition to this, 800 million will be provided each year. kr. a year from a reimbursement reform, which totals EUR 2.1 billion to 2020. kr. And that framework will be used in the future by the Left for tax incentives in order to create more private jobs. Not least, I would say here in the end, the reform we have agreed together will strengthen structural employment by 3 000 people and improve gross domestic product by 2.7 billion. kr. So all in all, the Left is satisfied with the settlement we made this summer with the government that frees 2.1 billion. kr. for growth initiatives; ensure that employment efforts remain anchored in the job centres and not in the cashiers; and establish that business services and job placement should be a core task for the job centres so that companies can get the workforce they need. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left supports both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140444	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are questions from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140450	Thank you. In the SF we also believe that there is a number of progress in this employment reform, but we also believe that there are some problems in it. I would like to mention one problem with the rapporteur of the Left: the reform calls for nine interviews to be held with the unemployed in the first six months of unemployment, six in the job centre and three in the cashier. According to our concepts in SF, it's a lot. It is a conversational circus, and in many of the conversations nothing will happen because there is nothing to talk about. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, whether the Left can also see that there is a problem in so many conversations, many of which are likely to be meaningless and where only a cross will be added to a table.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140546	We must not hope that they will become meaningless, because then both the unemployed and the job centres will have a huge challenge. What this is all about is, of course, that we have agreed that we must make use of the tools that bring the unemployed to jobs as soon as possible. And what we know is that conversations work. Then it may well be that SF has a perception that it is a waste of time. But I don't share it. In fact, I believe that talks to ensure that the unemployed enter jobs as soon as possible are extremely important. I regret that the cashiers have looked up a little bit and do not think conversations are important to the same extent and do not give it the same priority as we have done in the agreement. But there is no doubt that this is helping to get the unemployed to work. And then we also end what used to be the practice, namely that there were too many activation courses that did not lead to anything. So this is about exactly saying that conversations work, that we have to make use of that and that helps the unemployed in jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140651	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140653	However, it is the case that the reform has been launched under a heading which says that individual consideration must be taken into account and the situation of the individual. You don't do that here. Here people are just seen as if it were a factory where some goods were produced. And it is not the case that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. If 18 conversations were made in six months, people would be twice as likely to get to work. I would like to ask the rapporteur: would it not be a wiser model to say two or three mandatory conversations and then the caseworker could decide whether more were needed in the individual case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140730	I think that when you are available, it is about ensuring that you get to work as soon as possible. And that's where you have to do everything you can, so there's one conversation a month. That's what we're talking about... one conversation a month. You do not go to work, you are available; you have a lot of time both to prepare for the interview and to go to the interview. But what is crucial here is that the job centre and the employees of the job centre are skilled at asking: Where are we going, how are we going to get the unemployed to work? That's what they have to talk about, and also like every month.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140810	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. It's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140815	Thank you to the rapporteur. Conversations work, they say. I guess that depends on what you're talking about. In addition to that, it sounds almost as if many conversations seem very much and then the argument is used: Well you go free, and then you have to order something sensible, and then you can get a conversation in your box or in your job center. I don't think that's connected. I think this is about the fact that now the reform partners or those behind this proposal will replace an activation circus, which we know we have been tired of, with a conversational circus. I think that in a year or a year or a half or when the conciliation parties dare evaluate it will be able to see that it was, however, something crazy that we decided. Can I just get a little more detail on how these conversations are going to work and why conversations work? I thought it was conversations between the unemployed and the employer that worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118140921	It is, of course, the case that numerous reports and evaluations have been made that conversations actually bring the unemployed more quickly into jobs. Then it is very natural that we do away with the activation circus • activation in public companies, which does not lead to the unemployed getting a job and bet on it to be conversations; that we spend all the effort to ensure that those conversations also get some content. This is also why we set aside extra money to raise the skills of the employees of the job centre. It is, of course, in order for it to be a very good and rewarding conversation that is being held in order for the unemployed to seek more jobs and to get closer to the labour market. I think that is quite reasonable. And we're talking about one conversation a month... it should both the job center, but also the unemployed should be ready to run for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141019	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141021	Thank you. Now it has been said that this proposal must be debureaucratic. In my experience in the a-box world for 25 years, this would be a continued bureaucracy. In my best opinion, you just move the bureaucracy from one place to another without effect. I do not understand how it can be called a debureaucratisation. The second is that I also do not understand how the position of the Left has changed along the way. The Left agreed that in the past we had six weeks of self-chosen education, where the unemployed had an opportunity for free choice; that is, what I understood with free choice was once a liberal way of thinking. What's the reason the Left has changed in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141109	The left has certainly not changed. The 6 weeks of job-oriented training we are now talking about is to take 6 weeks of training in industries where there is a need for labour and that it is no longer self-chosen, where you take a course where you know that there is unemployment in the industry, but you think it is funny or interesting to spend time on it. It does not bring the unemployed quickly to work, and it is also a waste of money. That is why, when we use education, we have been concerned that it is very targeted. That is why we like 6 weeks of job-oriented training, and as far as debureaucratisation is concerned, it is about fewer demands being made on processes in the job centres, and I think that everyone welcomes that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141206	Thank you for that, President. Today we are embarking on an important new chapter in the history of the Danish labour market, because today we are working together with the L 58 and L 59 Bills, which translate the broad political agreement on a new employment system in Denmark. Why is it so important, you dare ask? The answer is quite simple: because we are now changing the emphasis on the second leg of the employment system; we are doing away with too many years of failed employment efforts; we are doing away with pointless activation, mistrust and focus on systems rather than people. Instead, we restore confidence and place a historically significant focus on education. Therefore, when these legislative proposals are adopted, they will have a positive impact on thousands of unemployed people for many years to come, and there is very good reason to welcome this. For the Socialists, good employment efforts are primarily about creating the shortest path for the individual unemployed for jobs and for sustainable employment. With L 58 and L 59, we place the individual unemployed at the centre of the employment effort, and when we do so it is because we have confidence; we trust that the unemployed will want to work, and trust that the cashiers and job centres both know how best to help the unemployed, but also actually want to do so. This means a new role and division of labour for cashiers and job centres, where both's competences come into play in a holistic approach to the unemployed. Today it is the case that the over 300,000 Danes who pass through the benefit system each year must have the same standard effort. It is patently contradictory that so many people should have exactly the same needs. You don't get the same because you get unemployed. Of course, 300 000 people are unemployed, each of them being different, and that is why the various needs have been different, and that is why the efforts so far have not been good enough to get them into work and in permanent employment. We now put the individual at the centre. In concrete terms, individual and early action for the unemployed means more responsibility for the individual and a special effort for the long-term unemployed, and this means debureaucratising the work processes in the municipalities. We put man before the system. We put the needs of the unemployed before the spreadsheet's cash thinking. In addition to trust, education is at the heart of the reform, and with L 58 and L 59 we put two points under the government's reputation as a government of education, because education is the best way out of unemployment. In particular, we are helping the unemployed, who have the least qualifications, the unskilled and those with outdated skills. This makes very good sense, because it is the group that can find its place in the labour market when the economy is roaring away, but they are also the first to be made redundant when times turn around. In other words, they are short-term hostages. They depend on the speed of the wheels and this is not sustainable for the unemployed or for society. That is why it makes very good sense for us to give that group a real boost to education. Training efforts will be increased by 0.5 billion. kr. in the context of the reform, and thus there is clear action behind the words. A good and effective employment system is a cornerstone of the Danish welfare society, and it is essential for the unemployed to be able to find a job as soon as possible and that companies can effectively find competent employees. For us Socialists, trust and education are the right way to go, including in our employment efforts, and that is why we can support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141620	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141626	After all, the party to which the rapporteur belongs, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, as a government party, had a proposal for employment reform which was put forward on the day before 1 May of this year. This is an issue which, among other things, is of great importance to the European Union. The Socialists were behind it, including the fact that it was the cashiers who had to take care of helping the unemployed to work for the first six months, and we thought in the SF that it was very well-founded that it was the cashiers because they know the members, they know their background, their training, they know the employers in the area, they know the work opportunities, so we think they are the best people to help people in work for the first six months. Although we think that the reform is progressing on a number of points, I will come back to them in my rapporteur's speech. We find it extremely regrettable that the role of the cashiers in the first half of this year has not been maintained. However, I would like to ask what the rapporteur's opinion is. Wouldn't it have been wiser to stick to the game and not turn it into the job centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141729	Now it is the case that when you come up with a proposal it was quite appropriate to bring it up to 1 May, the workers' day of struggle on the whole employment system, there are many things in it that you can hope will be implemented, and there will also be some things that you may not be able to agree on. It was laid out for a broad debate in the Folketing. One of the things that was then changed in relation to the playout was precisely the role that the cashiers should have. I am of that conviction, and one can also hear from the cashiers, that they have a role that reflects the importance they have and, at the same time, they have an interaction with the job centres, which will work well for the benefit of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141814	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141818	I hear the answer as a little on one side and a little on the other side-answer. I would say that it really annoys us in the SF that it wasn't the A-boxes that got this part. We think that would be the best help for the unemployed. However, I would also like to raise the issue with the Socialist rapporteur about talks. After all, the National Association of Municipalities is opposed to having so many new conversations. They have calculated that approx. 400,000 additional interviews in the job centres when this reform enters into force if necessary. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that this is a completely wild extra number.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118141856	I'm not so worried about numbers. I know that many people have been talking about how many conversations are now to be held, hundreds of thousands of conversations. In other words, I and our party are more concerned about how best to ensure that those who have now become unemployed move forward best. For some there is a need for a great many conversations, and for some there will be a need for very few conversations. If the rapporteur looks at the legislative proposal as it has been presented now, he will see that there is flexibility built into the way that those who do not need very many conversations should not have many conversations. When you know that a grave digger who is sent home because of frost in the cemetery has to start again in 2 months' time, he must of course have an initial interview. It gets people in the a-box to find out where he is, and then it will be clear to him that there will be no more conversations or quite few, because you know that he gets back to work quickly. However, it is with them that we can see at once that they are in danger of becoming long-term unemployed. There we have to take far-reaching steps to get the unemployed off the ground very well. There are talks in the right direction, because through the conversation and dialogue you can find out what is the dream and the objective of the individual unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142010	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142014	The rapporteur said that we should move away from the cashier thinking of the spreadsheet. To say that exactly nine conversations are right for people is to get out of the spreadsheet's box thinking? So I would like to hear: why on earth should part of these conversations absolutely take place in the job centres? Why couldn't it just as well be in the a-box? What is the reason why it should be in the job centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142046	Well, I am glad that Enhedslisten has also noted that the spreadsheet and the economy should no longer be a determining factor in what is being offered to the individual unemployed. That is, in fact, the thinking behind what I said. As far as the discussions are concerned, I think I made myself clear earlier in my reply to the SF rapporteur, in which I said just now that there is a degree of flexibility in relation to the talks to be held within the first six months, when we have the opportunity to look at the situation of the individual unemployed, and then we have to assess the number of conversations to be held and how they should be conducted. In relation to the last part of the question, it can be said that a very clear division of labour has been made here, a division of labour, where it is the cashier who takes care of the first conversation and meets his member and finds out what the situation is for him. Then it is the job centre that makes the conversations to find out how to get them back in education and work. Subsequently, and also throughout the process, it is the cashiers who follow up whether they are now also available for the labour market, as the cashiers have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142153	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142155	Well, the proposal says that joint discussions should take place in the job centres. It is not a division of labour; it is a joint task that needs to be solved. It might as well be in one place as in the other. The rapporteur also said that education is the best way for the unemployed, and I agree with that, and that is why I am very pleased with the approach taken by unskilled people. But can the rapporteur explain to me how it would be an improvement to abolish six weeks of self-chosen education for the unemployed, when he says that there should only be well-chosen education, or what the hell they call it, and that it is the job centre that decides? Is it not the unemployed person who knows best himself where he or she wants to go in his or her life, and thus also best himself know which education could be the best? Do you have to dictate it from the job centers now?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142246	I believe that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur may have to read the bill again, because it does not say that it is the job centre that decides which training to go to. It is the job centre that approves the training that should be given, and it is based on a very good talk with the unemployed about where they are going. It may be a very long-term plan if you are long-term unemployed; it may also be a short-term plan to get to work immediately afterwards. In fact, it may also be a plan that starts already on the first day of unemployment, because it is already possible to start an education that provides work afterwards. The only thing it takes here is for the job center to put a stamp on and say, "Okay, you can go into education." And it is fair enough that there is an authority that approves the start of an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142338	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142345	Education is good, I think most people can agree on that, but just not in the employment system. So what is the evidence of what the rapporteur bases his opinion on, that education is the best way out of unemployment? As I see it, and I have also asked the Ministry of Employment to get some evidence for it, it is when you take the group of unemployed people who get an education, and the group of unemployed people who do not get an education, very difficult to say anything about the fact that training in the employment system should lead to people actually getting into employment. In other words, when you look at it as a whole in relation to people being kept away from the labour market while they are in education, there is no indication that it is a good idea for the unemployed in general that there is education in the employment system. When you spend a lot of billions on training in the employment system, there are, of course, some who benefit from it, but there are also many who do not benefit from it and, overall, the usefulness is, to say the least, very questionable. So what is it that the rapporteur bases his opinion on the fact that education in the employment system is good?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142456	Actually, I was just about to be happy for a moment when sir... Joachim B. Olsen started with his question or comment here, for I thought: Finally, the Liberal Alliance has finally found out that education can actually pay off. But I could then understand that there was a different twist to the question, unfortunately. And it may well be, and now we come to it with the spreadsheets that Enhedslisten's rapporteur used to start talking about that there is no spreadsheet where you can quite see evidence of this. I note that the Social Democratic Party takes note of the fact that when we go in and look at the unemployment queue there is and ask who is going to work and who is not going to work, we see that those who are first to be fired and finally to get started are people who do not have an education which is either unskilled or have a wrong education. It's simple as that. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142554	Yeah, we stick to Danish here. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142559	But it is also true that the rapporteur says that unskilled people have a greater risk than others of becoming unemployed. However, making the conclusion that it would then be in the employment system to help the unemployed in employment, that there should be training, and saying that it is good in that system, there is no evidence of that. If it were the case that there was a huge amount of evidence that if you just gave unemployed education while they were in the employment system, they all got into employment, well then I would stand here and say that this is fantastic. Nothing can support that view, and that is why we are sceptical about it in the employment system. That's as far as it goes. Evidence acts among other things. That you spend the money wisely. If you, as we see it, use the money sensibly and then you can talk about spreadsheets • you can help more people. Otherwise, you waste the money. That is what you do when there is no evidence that the money you spend actually leads to increased employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142700	Now it is rather a pity that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur does not mention a little about what it takes. Since the unemployed are actually in the employment system, it could have been interesting to hear the Liberal Alliance's suggestion of what it was and where it was then to be addressed. Now the unemployed are in the employment system, and then there is also where it needs to be dealt with. It may well be that the Liberal Alliances would then have said that this should be done in the education system. If it worked so well and it was so easy, I am absolutely convinced that then unskilled unemployed people would have moved into the education system long ago. It is obviously not possible to do so; other means are needed. And you have to deal with that, at least in the Social Democratic Party, the people who are in this situation, for example. (i) the unemployed are unskilled, have a chance in the employment system to train and get back to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142757	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118142806	Thank you, President. After all, this bill on benefit recipients provides an intensified contact process for the first 6 months of conversation each month in collaboration with job centres and cashiers. After all, it must be adapted to the needs of the individual, because that is what must be the focus of attention, that is, what the individual needs to get back into the labour market. That is why a plan must also be drawn up for what is to happen. In this connection, the cashier will hold the CV conversation. The first conversation then takes place jointly, and all information must be available for both job centres and cashiers. There is no such thing as saying that the information that comes into the job centre cannot be seen by the cashier, and vice versa. You must also be able to book conversations with the job center yourself, and all information must then be in a job log available on My page, as it is called. This means that the unemployed person can also book conversations himself when it is needed, because there may be a big difference in what the unemployed think is needed when they sit there and have to find out what kind of job to apply for. If you are over 50 years old, the active offer must fall after 13 weeks. This is an advance on today. The active offer must be at least 2 weeks. This also means that repeated activation is abolished, and it can also be seen as a debureaucratisation, and it gives a greater degree of freedom in the municipal effort, because in the future it is the municipalities that have to manage everything. The demand for job centres is for the municipality to have a job centre, but it is also opened up to work with several areas in a job centre so that it is not so uniform. In future, as in the case of cash benefits recipients today, benefit recipients will be entitled to an offer of business practices and wage subsidies for a private or public enterprise. If the conditions of the law are met, you have to go out and find the companies in which you would like to have an internship offer. Perhaps you could say that there is a small chin in finding the offer for yourself, because there is also in this bill collection in other areas, and I would perhaps like to see the Minister look at what it looks like with those who have been injured and if they cannot continue with an offer in the company in which they have actually worked instead of going to a completely different company. But that has nothing to do with this legislation as such. We will then also abolish the operating refund for other indicative qualification in the case of benefit recipients, and that is simply to stop meaningless activation. It's all these weird courses that people are told to be sent to. By removing the reimbursement to the municipality, the conditions for sending people out in a so-called pip-bird course should at least be gone. In any case, there is no economic gain for the municipalities in doing so. There is, of course, the fact that some municipalities think they are losing a tool there, but I hope that the benefit recipients are not so far from the labour market that it is necessary for them to get those courses, because they can still be given away to cash benefit recipients. But, of course, never say "there could be some special cases" but we have to look at it if it causes the big problems. I do not think so; I really think it is received fairly well that one is not sent in one senseless activation after another. There is also the possibility of a real training boost, which in future means six weeks of priority job-oriented training which can be given from the first day of unemployment. A national positive list is then drawn up of which courses the unemployed person can choose from, and this should be according to what the companies are looking for. So there is no point in taking an education if there is no chance of getting a job afterwards. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to have seen the 6 weeks of education completely gone, because we would have liked to have had it open for you to be allowed to take an education, whether it was 6, 8, 10 or 12 weeks if it gave a job. An opportunity is then created for you to get further education. A pool has been set aside for this and whether it is enough and whether it can carry out the task, we must look at it, because if there is too much demand from employers on those who have qualifications they can get on courses of 8 weeks, then I think the Minister will look favourably on it if it turns out that there is a greater need for such courses. But we'll see about that. In any case, it is open to us to give people courses which are also longer than the six weeks. Then there is the possibility for skilled workers, who are 30 years old, with outdated training to start vocational training at the beginning of the unemployment period, and this is where it can be done at 80%. of the daily allowance rate, with the possibility of borrowing under the same conditions as the SU loan. I have little difficulty in assessing how much it might be used, but there is no doubt that there are some who will probably take advantage of that opportunity for training. We also strengthen the adult apprentice system, which is a very good system, and it is targeted at unskilled people and people with vocational training that has not been used for five years. We'll raise the grant from 30 kroner. per hour to 40 kroner. It's an hour. And benefit recipients without a completed upper secondary education receive the right to study, write, arithmetic or dyslexic courses. There are a lot of people who hide that they have some problems, and there we must of course make a test of what is needed and then help those who need such a course. It also includes a right to assess the qualifications you have if you have been on the labour market for a long time and have acquired some skills, because why should you start again on the training and learn something you can already? So it will help enormously if you get that assessment of competence so that you can take a vocational training that is shortened according to what you can already do. In terms of business services and job placement, this means that job centres need to talk to companies, they need to be out-of-date, they need to find out what they are missing, where they are able to help companies find the right workforce and what kind of training they are looking for. That is what you have to work with in the job centres with the unemployed, and I think that will be very good when it gets started. Already today there are municipalities that do so. We also know in this context that the cashiers have the opportunity to make all possible efforts for their unemployed already today, and some have done so by being out-of-date with companies and helping the unemployed find a job. I am very much on the assumption that this will continue, because it is in fact one of the core areas in which the boxes are actually strong, and I assume they will continue to do so. Graduates then expand their work experience from 4 to 8 weeks so that they get some more work experience. Wage subsidies for public areas are reduced to 4 months and the benefit is reduced so that the subsidy is not so large. It happens to avoid abuse. I know that the municipality says that they are upgrading the unemployed, but we have heard so many stories that unemployed people who have actually been made redundant are being sent into wage subsidies jobs in the same job from which they have just been dismissed. And there are very rare people who get jobs in the public sector by being in wage subsidies. On the other hand, it has a good effect in private life, and we must, of course, safeguard that. The job rotation system is also a good system that provides good contact with the labour market and helps many in jobs when it is in the private labour market. It is then reduced from 12 to 6 months, but it can then be extended according to what is needed and it is targeted at the long-term unemployed. Then there's a good thing in this, and it's the abolition of G-days. We are abolishing the first G-day on January 1, 2015, and this is something that the Danish People's Party has worked very hard to abolish with the Conservatives, and we are actually pleased that it has succeeded in doing so. The second and third G-days will be abolished on 1 January 2017, which is for short-term employees. It means a lot to companies that have seasonal workers and to temporary agency agencies, and they are ready to hire some more people, at least that's what they've been saying. Then there are a few problems in this which I hope the Minister will be ready to look at. One is the problem of unemployment benefit recipients. It is part of the flexjob agreement that Dansk Folkeparti is not part of. We find it difficult to see the basis for sending people who go on unemployment benefit through the same activation and making the same demands as for ordinary benefit recipients who are not sick. We hope that the Minister is ready to talk about it, because it is certainly a problem for the Danish People's Party that we should vote for the part that lies in it. This is one of the things we have not negotiated, but have been incorporated into the law to pick up on other legislation. That's how I see it. And then we have a problem, because we made the sickness benefit agreement, where those who got out of sickness benefits were given job clearance courses, and the agreement was then that it was called the job clearance programme and that they should have a job clearance service that should not be confused with the resource progression and a resource progression, but still they keep running at the Ministry that it is a resource progression benefit that you need and we agreed that it was not exportable. And so it cannot help that the Ministry continues to run with resource progress when it is job clearance that has to be given and that it is not exportable. It is a strong agreement in the conciliation, and it was one of the conditions for conciliation, and I understand from the Minister that he is ready to look at it, so that this issue is resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118143846	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118143849	Thank you. In most cases, when you become unemployed, you go down a number of thousands of dollars in income when you get on unemployment benefit because you lose your salary. And then we come to the point that I would like to touch on here in connection with the reform of employment. It is that a good training opportunity is being opened up so that one can move from being unskilled to being skilled. But the legislative proposals we are discussing here say that you have to go down to 80%. of the daily allowance rate. This means that you lose more than approx. 3,000 kroner. per month before tax. In the SF we believe that this is too little and that you should have the full daily allowance rate. We do not believe that the economy can run around in small families if you go down to 80%. In the case of unemployment benefit, the amount of the benefit is calculated on the basis of the amount of the benefit if you have already lost money by moving from salary to unemployment benefit. My question is: what is the rapporteur's position on this problem? Why does the Danish People's Party think it is a good idea to cut down on people's finances?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118143954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118143956	We do not think that arrangement is a good idea either. I think I've said that several times. I don't think it's a good idea to take an education and get 80%. of the daily allowance. I do not think we should be able to take an education on that basis at all. That is the government's proposal and we have accepted that the government would like it to go through. It has been done so that an additional loan can be taken up to the daily allowance rate. You can take that on SU terms. This means that it is a low interest rate that you only pay while taking the training. The moment you stop and have to pay back, you don't pay interest anymore. These are the same rules as for SU loans. That is what has been added by the government. The Danish People's Party generally does not think this is a good idea, but of course we also accept that the government has its wishes and cuts through when it makes such legislation here. Of course. Mr. Eigil Andersen also all about from then, SF just joined the government for a few years. It's not always possible to get what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144102	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144104	In the SF we think it is a good thing to invest more in education, because in many cases unemployment among skilled workers is only half of what it is among unskilled, so we think, unlike the Danish People's Party, that the educational opportunity is good, but we think that the economic conditions for taking an education are bad with the 80%. of the daily allowance. Mr. Bent Bøgsted on the loan option that Mr. Bent Bøgsted mentions that it is a real possibility if your economy is already in a mess, because the loan has to be paid back?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144139	I do not think that I ever said that education is not a good idea. I said that we do not like this arrangement in the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party generally believes that we should ensure that people receive the education they need in order to get a job. It must be aimed at where there are job opportunities. But the way the scheme is done here, with 80%. We do not think it is so good for the daily allowance and the loan facility, but that is what the government would like to see through, and we will, of course, accept that. We stand by that in full. There's nothing there. I think it's gonna work, too. As I interpret it, people have the right to get that loan if they meet the terms. That is how I interpret the legislation; it is not how they can get no to get the additional loan. Then, of course, there is the problem of paying back. But there are usually good repayment arrangements in the SU loan system. Of course, there will also be here, as they are the same rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144240	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144243	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur praise the arrangement that it should now be the job centre which decides whether or not to go to a course and what course it should be. Is that correct? I'll ask first. The other day I met a gardener who wanted to take a trailer course while he was available in the winter; he is every winter. But at the job center, they said, no, what do you need it for? There's no need to spend money on that. Then the a-box had to help explain that in fact a gardener had a little tools and stuff on a trailer when he was out doing tasks for master. Why is it not the unemployed who chooses what course they want? And if there is to be a positive list, why is it not the local LBR that has to make the positive list?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144335	That's because the local LBRs are being shut down. It's as simple as that. That's why they shouldn't make the positive list. After all, this list has to be targeted at what gives jobs. One thing is when you are available and you have to look at what job opportunities you have and what course you have to take to get back to work. This isn't meant for someone to say: I really want a trailer course, now I have to go free for two months, and then I have to have a trailer course, and then I'm back to work. Then maybe I think it should be another way to do it. This is targeted on those who go unemployed, those who need a new job. It is not as such intended for a • that I interpret it at least • that has a 2 month break before starting the same job again. That is not how I have interpreted it, but it may well be that I interpret it wrong. We can, of course, clarify this in committee. I understand that it is for those who have been dismissed and who do not have to return to their own jobs that we have to do the work with the courses that are here. Those who like the gardener here need a trailer card should be able to get it at the AMU centre while they're in work if they need it in the job they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144455	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144457	I don't quite get it. Well, there's gonna be some regional centres or something else. Why are it not those who are closest to the unemployed who make the positive list, so it is some who know their local area? That is one question. The second question is: why is it not the unemployed who can choose six weeks of training themselves? It was then a right previously held by the Danish People's Party that will now be taken away from the unemployed. Let us say that a gardener thinks he is better equipped to maintain his job and stay on the labour market by taking one of the courses on a possible positive list. Then why on earth shouldn't he be entitled to it while he was available? He's gotta be at work while he's at work, most of the champions think. Has the Danish People's Party ensured that all AMU courses are at least on this positive list? It could be a start to say that if they're all there, then we've come a bit along the way. But I also think that they should have a real right to choose for themselves what for some courses they think is best for themselves. Who in the world knows more about this than the unemployed person himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144602	First of all, I am quite convinced that the regional labour market councils have the powers to assess this, because there are representatives from employers and representatives from the trade unions sitting in the regional labour market councils. I think they've got their hands on the pulse about what kind of courses it is that need to be on the positive list to give jobs. To this extent, if all AMU courses are included in the positive list, I would say that it was not necessary to make a positive list if all courses were included there. Then you could just say that it was all AMU courses that were included. So I'd almost say they're not. Not all AMU courses are on a positive list. Then there was no need to make a positive list. Of course, there may be some of the expensive courses you can say are not included in the AMU courses. After all, there are a lot of courses that belong to the AMU. I cannot list all the courses like this, but a positive list tends to suggest that it is the courses aimed at being able to provide jobs that are involved, and these are the ones that employers are asking for. That's what's in it. Then there was a question of six weeks of self-chosen education. The Danish People's Party has never concealed the fact that we want to get rid of the 6 weeks of self-chosen education. We would have liked it to be open so that you could get the course that gave jobs, whether it was 6, 8, 10 or 12 weeks. That is what is being given the opportunity, namely that you can get a slightly longer course if it can provide jobs, and that is probably what we are going to look at, because I think there will be demand for a little longer courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144732	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then we go to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118144741	As the Radical Left rapporteur cannot be present today, I shall read the following speech. The broad agreement on a new employment effort is one of the most important political settlements in recent times. With this conciliation, we are implementing a much-needed reform of the entire employment effort, with the emphasis on helping the unemployed in sustainable employment. It is important that the employment effort supports at all times that Denmark has a well-functioning and flexible labour market with low unemployment and high employment. Both for the individual and for society, the cost of being unemployed is high. It is therefore essential that time as unemployed is not prolonged and that it is used to equip the individual for permanent employment. In addition, the whole idea of our welfare society is based on the fact that as many as possible contribute to raising welfare. At the same time, the new labour market policy is a showdown of meaningless activation and a system that has become too bureaucratic and ineffective. The Danish labour market model is internationally recognised, but labour market policy has in recent years been expensive and ineffective. Therefore, resources must be used in a better and more efficient way so that more unemployed people enter jobs permanently as soon as possible. At the same time, the reform must ensure that the employment system focuses on real job placement and the needs of companies for labour, and finally, the municipalities and the cashiers will have more levels of freedom to organise an individually adapted effort for the unemployed. Job centres should be based more on firms' labour requirements than in the past. Of course, it is important that the job centres have an in-depth knowledge of the skills of the unemployed, but only a close dialogue with the companies ensures more concrete matches and thus more jobs. This is why the draft law includes a new service concept for the cooperation of job centres with companies. The reform will be implemented in two legislative proposals. With L 58 we bring together everything about the effort for the individual unemployed and the country's businesses. The second draft law, L 59, is a completely new law replacing the law on the responsibility and management of active employment efforts. The Radical Left supports both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145010	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. Then we go to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145027	After all, this is a major reform we are discussing here today, and I would like to start by mentioning a number of the positive aspects of this reform. Firstly, it is being launched to become more individual aid and it is a very good headline because one of the major problems in the current system is that the unemployed are considered too much as products in a sausage factory, where everyone is the same and everyone is therefore combed over one comb, and nothing can be more wrong. That's why it's a good point in this reform. Another good thing is that there will be better opportunities for the unemployed to train, to move from unskilled to skilled, without having to be available for the labour market while training. This is a very important point for the SF, bearing in mind that we have a great deal of overemployment among unskilled people, and when the experts say that in a few years' time we will be lacking skilled labour. And we can also see, as we mentioned in the debate we had a little earlier, that unemployment among a number of skilled groups is only half what it is among a number of unskilled groups. So it can be said that it is already a good idea to take a skilled training course, regardless of how it will develop in the future, but I think it will develop in such a way that more skilled people will be needed. The adult apprenticeship path is already another way of becoming skilled, and it is positive that the reform increases the contribution to the employer to adult apprentices. It is also doing what some of the other rapporteurs have said about further removing parts of the meaningless activation, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It is very good that the use of wage subsidies in the public sector, which in many cases is pointless, is being reduced and, on the one hand, the municipalities have to pay a higher cost to those in the wage subsidy job, and that will dampen the use of this instrument, and I think that is very positive because I think that in 80%. in the case of wage subsidy jobs in the public sector, activation is pointless because it is completely excluded in advance that there could be a permanent position in the place in question. Another positive point is that the municipalities are again given the task of helping companies find ordinary labour. In fact, I think it is a great political scandal that the former Minister for Employment, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen removed it as a task for the job centres, at some point while the bourgeois government ruled. This is a major mistake, because, of course, a job centre must help employers not only try to get employers to hire people who need care and flexible jobs, but also ordinary labour. I'm glad it's being recreated now. Nine regional employment councils are being set up in the reform, with a greater role for the social partners, to help coordinate across municipal boundaries and assess regional training needs, and we also see this as a very positive element. Here I could continue with a series of further positive elements. I shall then skip that because I must then be honest and say that there are also some problems in this reform. I will mention three. Firstly, the cashiers should have had the task of helping the unemployed for the first six months, simply because the cashiers are the best for the task. They know the members, they know their business background, they know their training, they know the employers and they know work opportunities in the area. That is why the cashiers would have been the best at the job, exactly as the government's own job reform initiative was. Another major problem is that, as mentioned earlier in the first half of the year, a gigantic and crazy conversational circle is introduced with nine mandatory conversations, six in the job centre and three in the a-box and that is in just 6 months. This is a point which is also opposed by the National Association of Municipalities and, as mentioned earlier, they have calculated that there will be 400,000 additional conversations. I dare not think about how many man years it will have to be converted into. It is quite a huge resource consumption, and it is resources that could have been spent on something better. In many cases I am convinced that there is nothing to talk about, there will be just a cross in a schedule, or it is some kind of unnecessary chat, and in any case in many cases it will be meaningless conversations. For there to be a conversation, the SF believes there must be something to talk about. The truth is that a lot of unemployed people find a job for themselves during the first six months, and why on earth should they be dragged through nine conversations? It's just crazy. We would suggest that there should be 2-3 mandatory interviews for the unemployed, i.e. perhaps two in the job centre and one in the a-box, like that, but then the caseworker in the job centre should be able to say that there may be unemployed people who need more conversations, and it may well be that some people need nine interviews. We will not reject that, but the problem here is that it is important that the public system spends time on those who have the greatest need of help. This could be done precisely if two or three mandatory interviews were said, and then the caseworker in the job centre could also decide whether there should be more interviews with the individual unemployed. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, from the Socialist Group, said that in some situations the number of interviews could be waived, and the Socialist rapporteur is right in saying that there is a flexibility in terms of when to be held, but there is not in the papers after everything I can see any possibility that the caseworker can say that in six months the individual should not have six interviews, but, for example, six interviews. Only two. That option does not exist, and that is why this is too square, and that is why this is really a return to what else was said to be taken away from, and this is certainly not to meet the requirement for individual treatment. The third point I would like to mention as a problem is that the rate of training from unskilled to skilled in the legislative proposals is only 80%. of the maximum daily allowance rate. We believe that in the SF is too little. It should be borne in mind that most unemployed people are already leaving, for example. 5,000 kroner. As a result of losing their wages and going on unemployment benefits, or DKr 8,000. or 10,000 kroner. So there has already been a sharp reduction in the individual family's finances when you are unemployed in most cases. If you have to go another 3,000 kroner. the rate in education is 80%. (i) the amount of the allowance, which may then last, for example, for: A year and a half, I think it would be unrealistic for there to be as many people as people would like to be educated who would actually do it because they cannot afford it. So we think that this rate during this very important training we consider the training element to be very positive should be the maximum daily allowance rate. I would like to conclude my speech, which was a mixture of something good and somewhat awkward, by saying that the SF will table some amendments on some of the criticisms I have mentioned here, but I would also like to stress that there is no doubt that the employment reform presented is better than the current, terrible employment system, which mainly the Left Party has designed with its two previous employment ministers, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen and Mrs Inger Løjberg. So, despite the problems I have raised, reform is a step forward, and since the proposals are better than the current system, the SF will also vote in favour of the legislative proposals at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145905	A brief comment from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145911	Sir. Eigil Andersen says that it would have been better if the cashiers had been responsible for the unemployed. How does this relate to the fact that there are cashiers out there today saying that they simply do not have the resources to show up for these first interviews in the job centres, as they are supposed to do under this new reform? I mean, if they don't have the resources to do that, how would they have the resources to do all the work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118145938	These are two very different systems. In other words, what we are discussing today with this reform is the fact that the cashier has to appear at a certain time in a particular office for a conversation where there is the job centre employee, the unemployed person and then a cashier. It may well be a big practical problem for a cashier that it has to fit together, that is to say that you have to sit in a particular place in the country at a certain time and on a certain day, whereas the cashiers in the system where the cashiers had the contact for the first six months could, of course, organise themselves where and when the conversations were to take place. So this is a completely different practical situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150018	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150020	For me, it just sounds weird that if you can't find the resources to show up for one meeting, regardless that it may involve some practical logistical issues, but it's still gone only one meeting... then you should have enough resources to take care of the whole effort. That seems strange to me. But I would like to ask: what is it that is doing, Mr President? Eigil Andersen thinks the a-box is gonna be better? Well, what kind of evidence is that suggesting it's a good idea? It has been tested, for example. Copenhagen, without being able to demonstrate that it produced better results than the job centres' efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150057	There are several different problems in Copenhagen, among others. there are problems with the data systems not talking properly and other things. So, I am sure, as I said in my speech, that with the knowledge that the cashiers have of Members and have of employers and work opportunities in the area, it will work better. It should be borne in mind that the cashier has a large network in the sector in question. The fact is that a lot of jobs in Denmark today, most of them, are being occupied via networks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150132	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150136	Thank you. After all, the Job Centres are making a lot of effort to get the unemployed into work, and with this employment reform we can say that we are laying down the tracks so that they can concentrate on the essentials: getting the unemployed to work as soon as possible. But it has also been agreed here that job centres should be made more efficient. I don't think sir. Eigil Andersen made a great deal of mention of this in his speech, but SF is also of the opinion that more than 550 million can be made more effective. kr. in the job centres in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150216	There are many things in this reform, and I would like to say that I have not given such careful thought to the fact that I can give a precise answer to that question, but I can at least see that when you talk about efficiency, it seems like a hole in the head and the exact opposite that you want to hold these 400 000 extra conversations in the job centres. It certainly goes the opposite way because there will be nothing to talk about in those talks. The belief that people, because you're having a conversation, whatever you're talking about, come to work, we don't have that faith in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150255	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150258	But then I think that Mr. Eigil Andersen has to do his homework. There are several reports that show that conversations work and actually bring the unemployed more quickly to work. That's one of those things. There is a profit to be gained from the reform we have now made, namely that the unemployed actually get to work more quickly and that these talks can actually be held within the budget. So this is a matter of efficiency, and I was just curious to hear whether SF also shared the view that job centres across the country can be streamlined and that efforts can be concentrated on, among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150346	I believe, as I have mentioned before, that the opposition to this which the National Association of Municipalities marks is right. It should be the case that public resources, taxpayers' money, should be used to help those people who are in the greatest need of help, and then we should not waste our time on those who do not have much need and perhaps in fact can find a job for themselves in the first half of the year. So that way, it's a wrong course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150417	Thank you. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118150430	The employment reform, although both Enhedslisten and SF were denied access to the negotiating room from the outset, contains some improvements, especially in the field of education. We appreciate that. We are particularly pleased with vocational training for unskilled people over 30 years of age, improvements for adult apprentices, the right to study, writing, arithmetic or word-blind courses and real skills assessment, regional pools for short vocational training courses, and the fact that no refund is given to meaningless courses. I do not regard AMU courses as meaningless courses, according to the previous debate. The fact that municipalities are not obliged to use other players is also a good thing. And that there is a right to payroll jobs or business practices that have been found and the abolition of repeated activation, so that only one offer is required, is also good. However, there are also serious shortcomings that need to be corrected. I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen's remark that the tasks should have been where they are best carried out, namely in the boxes. That's not gonna happen. Full rates of benefit should be provided for participation in vocational training and not just for an 80-percent rate. The requirement for training to be carried out during the period of unemployment will make it impossible for many to complete vocational training within the narrow time frame. Instead, you should be allowed to complete the training at your own expense once the benefit period has been exhausted. The loan for training boosts, if there is to be one, should be interest free during the training. Improvements for adult apprentices should apply to everyone, whether they come from work or are unemployed, and the right to a real assessment of competence should apply to everyone, regardless of age. The positive list for the regional fund for short-term vocational training should be drawn up by the regional labour market council, so that local needs are the starting point for this list. There should be a derogation for non-ordinary education, so that municipalities can be reimbursed, for example. clarification for seriously ill people and victims of accidents. There should therefore be a right to more than one offer during the period of benefit, not a duty, but a right to more than one offer. A national centre should be set up for the development of recruitment, teaching methods and technology for read, write and countless and dyslexic. It is a very, very great deficiency that we do not have it, and that means that there is no collection of that knowledge. In the government proposal there were good intentions that there should be less bureaucracy, but unfortunately those intentions have not been met. This is evident from the many conversations of duty. I do not understand why benefit recipients now have to show up for nine interviews during the first six months of the first nine automated interviews during the first six months. There can be no question of quality when you have to have such a large number of conversations. And I agree with SF that much of what is going to happen will be idle talk. In the "A" box, one CV conversation and two annual conversations will be held, and six interviews will be held in the job centre. The activation circus is now being replaced by a conversational circus. The many discussions are the abuse of the labour force in the cashiers and job centres and cause an unreasonable burden in both places, which makes Members, the unemployed, frustrated and disillusioned. In addition, unfortunately, there is very negative content in the proposals. The six weeks of self-chosen education are abolished and replaced by six weeks of job-oriented training, which is reserved for some. This means that many unemployed people with training are now not entitled to six weeks of training and that they are no longer free to choose the training but can only choose from a positive list. As a minimum, we propose that AMU courses be included in the positive list. I strongly reject the great deterioration in job rotation. It's serious. It's the best tool we have. Now it requires 6 months of prior unemployment before you can get into job rotation. You can only be a substitute in a job rotation position for 6 months, and the municipality only gets 60%. in the reimbursement of the job rotation allowance. These are serious deteriorations which will mean that the best tool we have against unemployment will be significantly reduced. All these deteriorations will make job rotation less attractive to employers, the unemployed and local authorities. The previous requirement for three-month unemployment should be maintained. Recruitment should last for 12 months, with entitlement to daily allowances being earned, and the current 100-percent reimbursement should be maintained. So for the G-days, which are quite interesting: after the draft law, the G-days must be gradually abolished by short appointments. In principle, the unitary list has the view that the G-days should be abolished at all recruitments, but without the employer thereby having a saving; employers should instead pay up to a common pool. Now, sir. Bent Bøgsted just listen a little. We are opposed to the abolition of G-days only by short-term employment, because this will stimulate the growth of short-term employment and temporary employment. All G-days should be abolished in one chop, as gradual abolition will increase administrative trouble. We are opposed to the fact that offers which should be positive should now be used negatively as punishment, as will happen with the new so-called open-ended offer. It is only a control tool that gets the job centre both the right and the duty to carry out the on-call assessment, where otherwise it was the task of the cashier. We cannot accept the use of useful jobs and we are seriously looking at announced changes in the reimbursement to the municipalities. It is very worrying that the reimbursement should fall over time. It will hit the unemployed, the sick and people with reduced working capacity quite hard. It should be the same percentage of reimbursement for all benefits regardless of the nature of the service and regardless of the duration of the service. There are far too many sanctions in the insurance and employment legislation. They cover up the cynical and suspicious attitude of the conciliation parties towards the unemployed. In our view, the sanctions proposed for one or more days' absence in offers are quite superfluous. As long as you participate in the offer, the absence must be a matter between the unemployed person and the place of training or the employer. The draft law contains improvements in the field of education, but there are also many deteriorations. I would like to make a comment on L 58. Compared with the current governance law, the changes mainly consist of structural changes, but there is also a significant weakening of the competences of the regional labour market councils. This means that the social partners will have their influence reduced and it will have to be corrected before we can support that proposal. All in all, the conditions of the unemployed must essentially be taken into account when we make legislation. In the Enhedslisten we know that it is hard to be unemployed and that in the last 15 years it has become increasingly harder. To be unemployed is to be excluded from the labour market and social life at work; to have a tight economy; to be exposed to contempt in the media and from certain politicians; to be told that it is one's own fault, because there are plenty of jobs for those who can and will say it also by some politicians; to be unemployed is also to be a piece in a game where others have made the rules; to be unemployed is to be treated as a statist in a senseless activation theater; to be unemployed is to experience skills rusting, network shrinking and self-confidence disappearing. Under the bourgeois government it became increasingly harder to be unemployed. That is why it was positive when the former Minister for Labour put forward a radical reform of employment policy. Unfortunately, the Minister never let his bulldozer roll through the legislation so that we could start over and get a legislative proposal that first and foremost takes account of the needs and wishes of the unemployed. The government has the power, and with the permission of a well-known SF, I would like to quote: the government should use the power as long as they have it. They could have used it, which exists a majority together with the SF and Enhedslisten, which could have been used and activated in this situation, but one still chooses to cooperate with the bourgeois in such crucial areas as employment and unemployment. It is sad, sad, sad that we have come through another neglected spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151428	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151434	Thank you. There are between 7,000 and 8,000 people employed in the job centres, and if they sat and listened with that I don't think they do, because they're kind of busy getting the unemployed into work, so they don't listen with this afternoon... they'd probably be sitting back wondering at the accusations that have now been knocked down on them for the last 5-10 minutes about what they're doing in everyday life. I don't think it serves anyone that Mr. Christian Juhl has so much spoken down to the employees we have in our job centres. I had hoped that we could agree that in this way it is their job to ensure that the unemployed get to work and that it is our duty to create the best possible framework. And I think we've done that with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151528	Now it sounded more like a comment. It is the last 91⁄2 minutes that the rapporteur of the Left has listened to this. The people employed in the job centres carry out the task they are assigned to. This has been the case under the bourgeois government. Then they did a lot of control work, they didn't want to, and it's not to look down on them to say it. Many of them can do much better work if they came out and talked to the jobs, if they really had time to make proper conversations with people, or if they were best employed in the cashiers, where you are significantly closer to the labour market than you are in the job centres. Then it could be much, much better, and the labour force and the joy of these people could be better used and much, much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151613	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151616	However, the aim of the employment reform, which the Enhedslisten will not support, is precisely that the job centre employees both come out and have a close conversation with the companies in which the unemployed are going and have a close conversation with the unemployed. Then I can only regret the fact that Mr. Christian Juhl continues to praise the A-boxes, because I am somewhat unfamiliar with it. This has been a result where the cashiers have reported a little passport and said that they simply cannot handle this task of having a conversation at the job center with the unemployed person. That is what is here actually, namely that the boxes have problems with it. So, sir. Christian Juhl, I think, praises the cashiers for some work where they really can't deliver and where they don't make any difference. So I think it is really good that we have ended up where we have ended up, namely where the job centre has the ultimate responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151719	I do not think that efficiency is being increased, so it turns out to be an improvement with the division of labour that is now. We have to distinguish: we cannot cut all the coffers over a comb, as well as we cannot cut all the municipalities over a comb. Some a-boxes can easily solve this problem. Other a-boxes can also solve this problem with more resources. It all depends on what kind of members you have. There is a world of difference between being an a-box for an academic group and being that for a group of unskilled people. That's something that goes without saying. That is why we cannot look at what the rapporteur is doing as unavoidably.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151754	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118151806	Today, we are discussing the legislative proposal resulting from the agreement made by the government together with the Left, DF and the Conservatives on a new employment reform. The Liberal Alliance wasn't in the negotiations. We weren't invited, but that's the rules of the game, and that's fine. It has to be said, however, that we were offered the opportunity to participate when it was negotiated, but we refused to do so. But I would also like to say thank you for the offer. We have one of the world's most expensive employment systems, we actually have the world's most expensive. We use just over 1%. of our GDP on active employment efforts, much more than the OECD average of 0.4 per cent. The value of the extra billions we spend in relation to other highly developed welfare societies cannot really be documented. We use e.g. billions on training in employment, although this does not have a positive effect on employment for the unemployed involved in these activities. It is not an indication that education is bad; education is good, just not in the employment system. Employment efforts should have one objective: to bring citizens who have ended up in the unhappy situation of becoming unemployed as quickly as possible back to work. I think it says a lot about this reform that the government's expectation is that it will increase employment by 800 people by 2020. By comparison, the removal of the mutual dependent of cohabitants in the cash benefits system, which the government has just agreed with Enhedslisten and SF in the financial negotiations, reduces employment by 1,100 people. The reduction of 1,100 people called the leader of the Radicals, Morten Østergaard, a blur in the overall accounts. So if a reduction in employment of 1,100 people is a blur in the overall accounts, is an increase in employment of 800 people also a slump in the overall accounts? Maximum is a small jump on the spot. You can use all the nice words you want about this reform, but you can't run from the fact that the effect is very, very small. An employment reform that increases employment by 800 people by 2020 is nothing to brag about. In our view, a historic opportunity has been missed to create a more efficient and evidence-based employment system. Instead, a small adjustment has been chosen, and we think that is a pity. The potential for reform, which had had a much greater impact on employment, was present, but it has therefore been chosen not to exploit it. It should be borne in mind that when we spend so much money on employment efforts, there is also great potential for doing something more effective than what has been achieved. Now it is just that, in the Liberal Alliance, we have the principle that if something moves in the right direction, no matter how marginal it may be, we are in fact in favour of it. However small an increase in employment is 800 people and how far away from the potential that there is now to increase employment even more, it is, after all, a small step in the right direction. However, it is a pity that you have not chosen to take a major step • that is what is needed in Denmark. However, one small step is, of course, better than nothing, and that is why we are in favour of it. We believe that this is a marginal improvement in the existing system, and that is always something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152225	A brief remark from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152231	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen outlines that the purpose of the employment system is to bring people to work, and I would like to sign it, but the Liberal Alliance is so opposed to training. But bearing in mind that the likelihood of getting a job becomes greater as soon as you train yourself as a skilled worker in the field of LO, is it really not a question of fulfilling what the rapporteur describes as the purpose of the employment system, namely to do everything possible to get people to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152310	I understand that it sounds intuitively right and as a good idea, when you know that unskilled people are more likely to become unemployed than people who have an education, that you then train people for skilled workers, and so it is, just not in the employment system. Because when people are in training in the employment system, they do not get into work, and when there is the dynamics of the Danish labour market that there is now, which is positive, it actually means that people are therefore, there is an outburst effect • do not get into employment. Many of them would have come into employment instead of sitting on the training bench. So when you look at it as a whole, it makes sense to spend the money on training in the employment system; but unfortunately there is much to suggest that it is not a good idea; it is at least very, very doubtful. On the other hand, there is no doubt that if this money had been spent on other things that could have created some jobs, so that there had actually been some more jobs for the unemployed, then the money would probably have been better spent. This is not an indication that education is bad; education is good, it is important just not in the employment system. It is therefore our view that it is all about getting the unemployed back into employment as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152429	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152432	As mentioned in the SF, we believe that it is very positive that there are also educational opportunities in the employment system. We welcome this point in the reform. I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: If we have an unskilled worker and he or she starts to become a skilled worker while he or she is in this system and then he or she has a greater chance of getting a job afterwards, is it not better than sending the unskilled person in question down to a 3-month vicariat at the local petrol station, after which he or she is unemployed again afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152510	But that is not necessarily what is happening either. If that were true, that argument could of course be used; that is just not what is happening. In other words, if you compare the group involved in training in the employment system with those who do not, it is very difficult to say that all the billions spent on education and training are worth the money. You can't really say that. You know there's an outrage effect. Of course, when you inject billions into education, there are some who benefit from it, certainly. Obviously, if you spend billions on almost everything, some people think this is really good. But overall, there is no indication that it is a good investment, that it is something that gives value for money. But if the money had been spent on something quite different: to take initiatives that would actually create jobs, to increase structural employment, then the money would have been well spent. That is why it is a priority, and we therefore think it is wrong to give priority to this if we look at the evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152611	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152614	Yeah, it's kind of on the same track. Does this right to education, which we have in Denmark, apply only to people born with a silver spoon in their mouths? Is it really the case that only those who can and get support from home to go to universities should have the right to six years of self-chosen education and we do not question this, not even know whether it can be used in production afterwards, or whether it benefits society and has free choice on all shelves? Is it not a little arrogant to say that if there is an unskilled person who, for social reasons, has never had a chance of an education, it is certainly wrong if he gets 6 weeks I think it is arrogant.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152700	But the right to take an education applies to everyone. However, the fact that there are many training courses where money could perhaps be spent better in the education system and in universities is a discussion which is going on right now, when questions are also raised as to whether all the money we spend there gives the value they could. So the discussion about how to spend taxpayers' money, i.e. whether you get a benefit from the way you spend it, is also taking place in the ordinary education system. And I would like to stress that we have nothing against education and training. It is certainly a good thing, but just not in the employment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152744	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152746	That's exactly what I'm talking about. The only chance an unskilled son or daughter of unskilled parents has is if there is an opportunity to get an education while, after all, you are waiting for the next job. The right to education does not apply to everyone in Denmark, I would say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. The right to education applies above all to those of the better-off families where there have been good conditions. Does the rapporteur not know that there is a great social imbalance in higher education, a very great social imbalance, because not everyone has equal access to education in Denmark? That's one thing. The second point is that I fully agree with what the rapporteur said that this system is expensive. I do not know any society in the world that is as good to its employers as Denmark is. We make everything available to them: well-educated people; roads; cheap lands where they can build their factories; and even small houses where they can develop their businesses cheaply at first, etc. etc. It is absolutely true that such a system is expensive, but it also has a certain effect. So far, at least, we have been able to benefit greatly from it so that both the workers get a reasonable life out of it and the employers get an easy life out of it. Why on earth would we change that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118152909	I must insist that the right to education in Denmark applies to all people. The fact that not everyone can complete an education and that not everyone wants to take an education is then another discussion. Nor is it certain that it is the happiness of everyone to be on an educational bench; it is not. What an employment system should be about is getting people into employment; it is that people become self-supporting; it is that people can take care of themselves. That is what I think the unemployed want. If it were the case that one could only say unequivocally that if we spend a lot of money on training in the employment system, that would lead to all unemployed people getting into employment, then that would be a good idea. I would just like to say that there is quite a lot of doubt and doubt as to whether training in the employment system is good for the unemployed in the sense that if they do not get into employment but on the contrary are displaced from the labour market, more time goes out of work and thus have a loss of pay and so on, it is not certain that that is what is right for these people. I would also like to stress that when you spend a lot of billions of dollars on it, of course there are some who benefit from it. But in here we are making policies that are about populations, and there we have to look at the overall effect. And since it is not large, we must question whether we could then spend the money better and for the benefit of more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153036	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153044	From the conservative side, we are, of course, in the agreement on this reform, and we can therefore of course also support the legislative proposals that implement it, and I would like to say a few words about why. For us, it is a question here of getting more of an employment system that puts people ahead of the system. It is a question of the unemployed in permanent employment rather than being parked in an employment system. One of the things we have emphasized is that the responsibility remains with the municipal council, is anchored in the municipal job centre. Responsibility should lie where the economic incentive is too. It is important that the municipalities are responsible all the way through and that it lies in a separate part of the administration, so there is every guarantee that the municipality is looking at doing everything possible to help the unemployed in the job. We must note that the cashiers will only become part of the active employment effort from 1 July 2016, because the cashiers have announced that they are not ready before. To this I would like to say that I think it is very good that it did not end up with more responsibility for this effort from the very beginning. There is a debureaucratisation here. There will be fewer rules, less bureaucracy, and the focus will be on the outcome rather than on the process... focusing on getting the unemployed in employment, focusing on the individual and not on the process. We are therefore pleased that the municipalities have the freedom to act to ensure that the unemployed person gets a targeted and individual effort with a clear job aim, because that must be what this is all about for the individual. Therefore, it is also important that job centres know the needs of companies for labour, that there is a better understanding of the real labour market. Companies must be able to count on the job centres, because if companies can do so, people who depend on the job centres can also count on good and relevant help to be associated with the companies in which it is relevant to get jobs. Therefore, it is important that companies feel that it is useful to make use of the job centres to recruit new labour, because this is how we ensure that the unemployed are given good chances of getting to work. Once you have ended up in unemployment, we know that it is important that you get to work quickly, and if it has been a long time, yes, you depend on companies wanting to use the job centres to communicate that there are people with the skills that companies need. We are also very pleased that the 6 weeks of self-chosen education have been replaced by 6 weeks of job-oriented training. Training in employment is not an end in itself. This must lead to permanent employment. That is why we are also pleased with the part about reading, writing and arithmetic courses. It is important to strengthen the basic skills of the unemployed. It makes no sense at all to talk about education for those who lack basic skills in reading, writing and arithmetic, because then education will simply be a failure. It is a disaster in a society like the Danish one, if you lack basic skills, and therefore it is an important part to address, just as it is incredibly important for unskilled people to assess the informal qualifications they have acquired through perhaps a long working life before they were so unlucky to end up in unemployment. To prove the qualifications you have must and must be an important part of ensuring that you again end up on the right shelf in permanent employment and perhaps even with papers on the skills you actually have. Because sometimes education is also about learning through a long working life. So it is good that we are now strengthening the possibility of unskilled people being given the opportunity to assess and get paper on their informal qualifications. Finally, I would like to pay particular attention to the G-days for short-term workers. We are very pleased that employers' payment of the daily allowance for the first, second and third day of unemployment is gradually being abolished for people with less than three months' employment. That was one of the things we really stressed in the negotiations and are extremely pleased that has been met here. The problem with the G-days is that they can prevent companies from hiring the unemployed in short-term employment. This means that, to a greater extent, companies will now dare to employ employees if they need additional labour for a shorter period of time. It provides flexibility in our labour market, which is a huge force and something we are internationally known for. Hopefully, the short job can be the springboard to either be allowed to stay in the company in which one has now proved one's worth through shorter employment and thus perhaps in fact opened the eyes of the employer that one is a resource that is indispensable in the company. Alternatively, the possibility, if nothing else, of having a shorter job is a good springboard to go ahead in another, lasting employment, because the short-term employment has shown that you have some qualifications that it is worth hiring you on. So all in all, we are well satisfied with the form the reform has taken and we are particularly pleased to have been accommodated on the exact question of the G-days.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153726	A brief remark from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153729	Thank you. I hear there is a nuance between the parties to the conciliation. Some say that the objective is as soon as possible in work, others say that education should be used to get into permanent employment. Is there a difference? I mean, sometimes it would be good to spend a little extra time on a little education so that you could keep your job so permanently. We know that there are some places where you can be a whole life, other places you are only once in a while, i.e. for shorter periods. That is one question. The second question is: who has decided what training Mrs Dyremose should take when she took an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153811	First of all, it is really important that we make an individual effort here, and what must be the aim of the employment effort must always be to get the individual into permanent employment. And so there are, depending on who the individual is and what qualifications he or she has, different ways to do. That is the reason why, among other things, we are here today. have these conversations that will help to clarify the individual: what is it that can get me into a job that I have the opportunity to stay in for hopefully many years to come? That is, in fact, the essential point. In relation to the other, I guess I can guess what the controversy is there. Fortunately, in Denmark we have an education system which is not just taxpayers' funding, but which also has an SU support that allows us to ensure that people have access to education in this country, and we are really, really concerned that as many people as possible get an education, but that is what is best done in the education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153926	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118153930	Thank you. I understand that Mrs Dyremose has chosen her own education, although it was a little around-explanation she gave. I do not understand why the unemployed should not also have the option of self-chosen training, preferably on the basis of the offer there is, and would like, where the worst scam training is then sorted out from private providers. I fully agree with that. But why can an unemployed person who has never received an education or who has only an old education or has little education not be given the right that Mrs Dyremose has had, where one has the right to choose oneself, for example? 6 weeks of education? I would guess that Mrs. Dyremose has had 5, 6, 7 years of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154013	Now I do not really think that my private affairs relate to this debate. I'd be happy to answer the question. No, I have not chosen my own education, for the education I wanted as no. 1, there was no place in it, and that is why I referred to the educational wish that I had had as a number. 2. In this way I have chosen to stay in the education that I ended up in, because it turned out that that education I would take anyway. And that is what sometimes happens to some of us that we believe and hope that we have something to do, and then it turns out that there may be more needs and needs for us somewhere else, and sometimes we have to choose, both in terms of education and in terms of employment, to do something other than what we had just expected. But the important thing in this context is that, through the employment system, we are helping to find a shelf that you can fit in with, even if it is not necessarily the one you had hoped for. And then it is also the case that we all have access to the • also at a late stage in life if we meet the requirements of the training courses to apply for one if one has never been given one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154121	Thank you to all the rapporteurs and for the final confessions. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154131	I would like to start by thanking you. You almost always do. But I would really like to give some thought to the former Minister for Employment and to the rapporteurs who made it possible for us to adopt this reform before the summer. I think we have delivered an excellent piece of work, and it will then be me who will have the pleasure, on the one hand, to get the law through the Folketing here, and, on the other hand, to spend a great deal of effort on having it implemented afterwards. This is a task which I would very, very much like to undertake. A few words to the rapporteurs at least some of them. Let me start with Mr. Hans Andersen and to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen to say something. Because I think they outlined in an excellent way what the intentions have actually been with the law here. But also to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who also clearly demonstrated that he also knows the details of the legislation here. Sir. Bent Bøgsted had some questions for me, and I really just have to be completely skinless and say that I'm not quite sure that I understood the consequences of those questions, because they also passed on to other legislation as I understood it. But I would like to give the undertaking that we will, of course, have a conversation about this in the course of the discussion of this either way. I should also like to thank Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, who also outlined her intentions. So I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, who also ended up being either very critical or a little critical. I could not help noticing that the rapporteurs who were then either critical or slightly critical, a little dependent on what they put into it, had relatively many praises before they came to the criticism of the draft law. It is, after all, a little along the way, however, that those who are critical must first go through relatively many roses, and that is quite a lot about the draft law here, I think. I think it has the good thing in it with the bill that we have a broad majority that has accepted it, and I would like to sign for that. I would also like to sign for the intentions of the legislative proposal itself, namely that the efforts that are being made must now be individual and job-oriented, so that the individual unemployed really do come to the centre. We are now giving some opportunities to be much more skilled and thus to get closer to the labour market, and perhaps even closer to a labour market which makes it possible to remain firm. That is absolutely crucial. One of the things that has followed quite a lot in the debate that has taken place at first reading here has been what some have called conversational circus. I would like to say that if it were a conversational circus that we now introduced, I would have been as opposed to it as those who have mentioned it. But I think we are now at the main point, that is, what this is all about: if we are to live up to what is the fine intention that everyone has expressed, namely that we must now have a more targeted and individual approach, then it will only be done if we take the unemployed person and his situation seriously. And you only do that if you get closer to that person. It should not be at a conversational circus at all, on the contrary, it should be targeted in terms of getting closer to the unemployed, understanding what wishes and goals are, clarifying what needs are, and thus getting the individual effort that brings you closer to returning to the ordinary labour market. So this isn't a conversational circus. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for some kind of pragmatism with regard to the first conversation and the participation of the cashiers here, because I think that is common sense, but also an emphasis on the • and I hear all the rapporteurs who are behind the reform make it clear that in their own context we are taking up that part of the reform of talks as an important tool for bringing the unemployed closer to the labour market. Another thing that I think is important is the business-related aspect of the reform here. I do not mean to offend anyone, but I have such a little feeling that we have had a number of years when communicating jobs has not stood as a crystal clear high priority. I am not saying that jobs have not been disseminated in the job centres, because that has been decided, but now it will be a very targeted thing, so that what you have to do, also by the job centres in cooperation with the cashiers, is to communicate jobs, and I think that is absolutely crucial. I think it is absolutely crucial that when you as a company meet the job centre, as far as possible, you first get the right personal match for the company in question, and the way to get closer to companies and communicate jobs makes it possible for them to continue and develop their production, and that is absolutely crucial. And the same companies can then subsequently help those who are not part of the labour market closer to the labour market by the different opportunities offered by job rotation, flex jobs etc. etc. Another thing that you experience when you are allowed to become a minister in a new area is all those abbreviations, and you who have worked with it for a period of time are gonna wrap around them and understand them, and I have had to get to know them a little bit. But there are two abbreviations that I've been happy with, and that's KKR, and that's RA. Then I think the careless seer sits back and asks himself what that means. These are two of the things I think will be absolutely crucial here: inter-communal cooperation and regional labour market councils. For another thing that is absolutely crucial to the reform here is that we now have to look far more beyond our own municipal boundaries. And why should we? This is because the labour market is completely different from what it was years ago. So the patterns of cooperation which now lie here in relation to the two abbreviations, i.e. the municipalities and the regional labour market councils, are also essential for us to now also ensure that the right training, in relation to what is needed, the companies have exactly the same need in our regional area, is strengthened. So there is one area that I think is absolutely crucial. So I just have to finish by saying that I think it has been a very, very fine first reading. I have been pleased that the rapporteurs of the parties responsible have defended it and been so clear about it, and I have actually been very pleased to hear that even those who are sceptical have not been able to fail to praise the draft law here as well in the rapporteur's speech. I think that is evidence of the fact that what we have made up is not completely crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154841	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154845	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour why the cashiers have not been given the role originally planned by the government, why not use the potential of the cashiers, which is greater than the job centres, to communicate work and to bring their own members closer to the labour market, not least when they use it in a dynamic context with their trade union?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154914	Now I don't agree with you at all. Christian Juhl in his approach to this. For me, the participation of the cashiers in this has a completely crucial role to play. I think it was sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, who said it very precisely in his rapporteur's speech, namely that the first conversation, the clarification, is going on down the a-box. And then it is a cooperation and note the word cooperation between, on the one hand, the one that we need to have at the centre, namely the unemployed, and, on the other, the cashier and the job centres. So I would like to say that I think the cashiers play a very sensible role throughout the process, and they can do that to the benefit of the individual unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154955	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118154958	I personally believe that it would be possible to make much more use of less money if the cashiers were given a much better opportunity to play a part in the intermediary task as well. They have a potential that is so great. The second is a question of G-days. It is only for short-term employees that G-days are not counted with the employer. Why would the government not abolish the whole G-Day scheme? If this is an advantage for short-term workers, then it is also an advantage for those who are employed a little longer. And why is it the employers who should have the economic benefit of abolishing G-days, for example? Is it not the unemployed or those who have to ensure that they have education or some other sensible place? Letting employers take advantage of it is not very wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155048	In other words, as far as I have been able to look at the debate that has been going on, there are also some good things to say about this which I think are important to hold on to. Firstly, it is true that there is some flexibility for employers in short-term employment, but it also helps to give the unemployed the opportunity to find work. Secondly, I think that one of the things that is absolutely crucial is that from the first day of unemployment, instead of G-Day, unemployed people can now receive unemployment benefits. And I guess that's one of the things that's crucial to this. So I think there is a flexibility in that and there is also a security in relation to the old rule of G-days.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155132	Sir. Eigil Andersen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155136	There are situations in the political debate where, because what you experience is simply too absurd, you pinch yourself in the arm and say: Am I dreaming or am I awake? I am thinking of what the Minister referred to in relation to the provision of ordinary work. The Minister for Employment said that this was not such a priority task, at least not everywhere. No, the Minister is always right, for that was the former Minister for Employment, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who abolished the duty of the job centres to convey ordinary work absurdly! Then we come to the question of the conversational circus. Why on earth should an unemployed person who has a good chance of finding a job within 1⁄2 years be dragged through six interviews in the job centre and three in the a-box, nine in total?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155236	I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, I am very pleased that it is now being clarified that it is an essential task to communicate jobs. I am on behalf of the unemployed, but I certainly am on behalf of those companies that need skilled labour. Well, then, sir. Eigil Andersen is therefore very sorry, but I do not accept that terminology and will not go in and use the same terminology and call it a conversational circus, because I believe it is not. Sir. Eigil Andersen says himself: Why do you have to go through so many conversations during the first half of the year when you have a good view of There is just exactly a line below the good view of a job, but it is not the same as finding a job. That is why I think it is absolutely essential that we get that spade deeper into it and that we get closer to the individual unemployed in cooperation with the individual unemployed, in cooperation with the cashier and in cooperation with the job centre. What are some things that need to be clarified in order to get closer to the labour market and thus get the job that Mr. Eigil Andersen is looking for you? I think it makes sense. I think it's wise for us to do this. And it should not be conversation for the sake of conversation; it should be conversations that bring the unemployed forward and closer to education or the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155349	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155352	Now it is the job centres, and that is to say the municipalities that have to carry out these conversations, and they say that if the conversations have an appreciative and forward-looking perspective, they are good. But they estimate in the National Association of Municipalities that many of these conversations will be superfluous because in many cases the individual can find a job. That is why we are here at this 400 000 extra conversations and, in my opinion, a huge misuse of public funds at nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155429	I know that the thing about faith is something you do elsewhere in the church on Sundays at 9:00 a.m. 10. But I would now like to say very precisely that I believe in taking the individual unemployed seriously, getting closer to the individual unemployed. And I'd like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that it was a wrong interpretation that it was the job centres. It is the job centres in cooperation with the cashiers, but certainly also in cooperation with the individual unemployed. And the last thing is really important, because what we have all started by saying when we have presented this reform is that it has to be an individual effort. That is why it is the unemployed who must be at the centre here. Now we have to see what comes out of it, but I really feel convinced that people will take this seriously in both the cashiers and the job centres, and that will be the case for the individual unemployed. And then I think that we are creating tools here that will bring us closer to the ordinary labour market. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155520	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155537	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr McMillan-Scott. Hans Andersen, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155559	Thank you. This bill deals precisely with the barriers preventing certain groups of employees from participating in the labour market when they reach the age of 70. Such a barrier is found in the Discrimination Act, and the overall purpose of this bill is to abolish the 70-year limit in Section 5 (a) of the Discrimination Act. 4 which makes it possible to conclude individual agreements and collective agreements whereby an employment relationship can be terminated when the employee reaches the age of 70. In the Left, we welcome the abolition of the 70-year limit, that is to say, the removal of the possibility of automatically writing out notes to 70-year-olds in connection with agreements in agreements or individual agreements. We can only welcome the fact that something is finally happening. In 2014, we should not have rules that cut people off from the labour market or force them to retire simply because they have reached a certain age. On the other hand, we must encourage people to work as much as possible, preferably as long as possible, and therefore also at the age of 70. I have to say that, of course, older people must be very welcome in the labour market, but they must not pose a safety risk either; but they do not necessarily do so just because they are 70 years old. Their ability to do a job is not necessarily impaired by the 70th birthday. So to set an age when you are no longer able to do your job is in a way discriminatory. Instead, we should rely on the worker and employer to find out and leave the decision to them. After all, they are the ones who know each other best. So on this basis, I recommend that the Left vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155816	Thank you for those words, and we shall go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118155829	Thank you, sir. President. When you have qualified yourself for a long life to talk about this issue, it is a good thing that others are also present in the Chamber who reach the same, perhaps even a little more, and you can also get up early and sit in the lodge at the Association of former Members of the Parliament. But in social democracy, we think it is really, really good that people are allowed to decide when they want to leave the labour market themselves. This has been important to us, and this is an issue that has been debated ever since we got the early retirement scheme: should people be squeezed out of the labour market or should they be allowed to stay? The debates over this matter over the last few years have led this proposal to the conclusion that it is now very good that people are allowed to decide for themselves. It has also happened in the labour market that some people have hard physical work that makes them want to leave the labour market a little sooner, and then some people, on the other hand, have less hard and physical work and think that they want to continue to be in the labour market. That is, in fact, the proposal that the Minister is now making here, which we in the Socialist Group fully support, namely that you can decide for yourself. We do not think that there is any reason to have some rules in some agreements or agreements that say that people per. Automatics have to leave when they're 70. They should be warmly invited to stay there. Normally we also hear employers say that it is only people's qualifications that are crucial, and that must also be their desire and interest. Unfortunately, we have just seen for a few years that, mostly when there have been layoffs, seniors have been dismissed. We are very sorry because it often turns out that when seniors have been dismissed, they are in a situation where they may have found it difficult to find a job, so solutions must also be found. But with this we do that, people get a bigger choice, the employer gets more flexibility, and we think that's really fine. We don't have to make rules about that in here in the Folketing. Of course, there will still be the possibility of creating specialised areas for police, defence and so on. That is why we believe that the proposal here should be welcomed, and I should be pleased if it were the case that the Folketing could at all agree fully on it. But we will have to see that when we have heard the other rapporteur's speeches. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160056	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen will just have to stay here for a moment, because there is a brief comment from Mr Laustsen. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160106	What we are banning here is the fact that the social partners make agreements on compulsory retirement at the age of 70. Maybe I've misunderstood this, but I guess that's how those deals could just be changed. Well, sir. Bjarne Laustsen says that it gives employers greater flexibility and so on, but I read in the consultation answers that employers are not enthusiastic about this at all. But isn't it true that if it was the case that the social partners • I think that the Social Democrats often argue that the agreements they make shouldn't politicians interfere in wanting to change this, they could just change it that they could just make some new agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160151	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160153	Now I don't know what interests it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is in charge. I am happy to speak on behalf of the employees and also on behalf of the employers, and I can see here in the hearings that the employees' organisations are overwhelmingly positive. I have also noted that there are a few individual employers' associations which may not have quite understood what this is about. Because we do not need to have a legislative rule. They always talk about deregulating rather than regulating and that's what I'm saying we're doing here. We do not need to have that limit; they can find out for themselves. That is why I am just saying that usually employers say that it is the qualifications that decide whether or not to be employed in a company. Then, of course, it requires the individual to want to do so and to be able to cope with the work that he now does if he continues after he has reached the age of 70. So it's all under control. If it should be the case that some employers have suggested that they will fire people before they reach 70 years of age, then we have good reason to see that this will be the case, because we have rules to deal with that, precisely in the law on discrimination. It would be very inappropriate if some people were to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160300	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160303	One can imagine many points where employers and employees are not in agreement and where one of the parties would wish that it was the politicians who went in and decided what should be in those agreements. But normally we say in Denmark that this is not the way it works, that it is something the social partners must discuss and reach agreement on. So here we choose not to deregulate; it is nonsense to go in and ban the social partners from making agreements in this area; it has nothing to do with deregulation. But I'd like to ask Mr. Bjarne Laustsen: Is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is not of the opinion that in the Danish labour market it is the case that employees and employers negotiate, make agreements, make agreements, and that this is not something that politicians should interfere with, regardless of the fact that we can then occasionally have wishes for the agreements they then make?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160406	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160408	I sometimes find it difficult to decode the Liberal Alliance and, in particular, Joachim B. Olsen, in relation to what is meant, but the rapporteur will have the opportunity to say so a little later. What has happened in the past is that there has been a rule that one could not continue after 70 years of age. That is what I am saying: there does not need to be any more, and that is why I have full confidence that the social partners can resolve this. They do so in some specific fields; there they agree that there is a certain graduation age, and this is usually related to pension or something else. There have also been opportunities to do so, and there will also be opportunities to do so in the future. So this gives more flexibility for all parties. There are companies that can keep their employees even though they have been 70 years old. I think that's fine if that's what the employee wants. So this is a really good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160457	Then I can see that there has been another questioner, and that is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160503	I'm just sitting here wondering why you don't just stand by what you do. So, with regard to the fact that there is deregulation, can we not just agree completely that there is no obligation whatsoever to enter into any agreements, that we should resign when we have reached the age of 70? So can I just ask whether it is not true that this draft law also interferes with existing individual agreements, which are rendered null and void by this bill, i.e. that agreements made individually between adult people who have chosen to place this limit in that agreement will be rendered null and void by this bill? Is it to create flexibility? Is it not to go in and decide that we know better than those who have made the agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160550	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160551	I can hear from the Conservative People's Party that you have to go back a long way. We actually pay tribute to the Danish model of agreement, and we do not think there is any reason to have that 70-year limit in general in our agreements, and that is why we are removing it. It's been a wish from a lot of people. I have heard the Conservative People's Party say many times that they were fiercely opposed to the pre-retirement reform, because the post-retirement pay had to be eliminated altogether, so that everyone should keep working and so on. That is where the rest of us, as I would like to say, have had a different approach to it. We have had arrangements that have given people who have had hard physical work in the construction industry, in slaughterhouses or elsewhere an opportunity to leave the labour market. That's why I think it's really weird to hear. I am talking about freedom and flexibility so that if anyone wants to continue after 70 years of age, they can be allowed to do so. I cannot understand why the Conservative People's Party wants to prevent anyone from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160648	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160651	Can't we just stick to the facts? Do we not agree that if you want to hire someone on an individual agreement longer than 70, you can just do it? So, sir. Bjarne Laustsen says here: We salute the Danish model, but we are now intervening in the agreements and will regulate it here. There are people in this country who work and are over 70 because they have made an agreement with their employer that they are allowed to continue working, that they want to, and that the employer wants to hire them. So this is a matter of restricting the agreements that must be made. You cannot say both that you pay tribute to the Danish model and that you want to create freedom, you do not want to interfere at all, and that you support a bill where you interfere. It is okay to pay tribute to the Danish model with certain exceptions, but just say honestly that this is an exception where you do not pay tribute to that part of the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160739	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160741	It is an old truth that if the argument is weak, you raise your voice, and that is what Mrs Charlotte Dyremose is doing here, because there is absolutely no reason to raise her voice. Then you talk about individual agreements, but the Danish model is based on an agreement on certain conditions that tell you something about what rights you have as an employee and as an employer. This is where we say there doesn't have to be a general rule about it. It may well be that there are some who are unorganised who can make agreements about one thing and the other. I don't have to deal with that at all. I am just saying that what is really good in the proposal that is now coming from the Minister for Employment is that you get more freedom in the labour market because you do not have to have the 70-year limit anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160822	Then another questioner has come in, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160826	What made me take the floor was this: Bjarne Laustsen said that it seemed quite all right to remove the age limit, and the Danish People's Party also thought that it was fine to maintain the age limit in agreements and to take account of pension agreements, and then to have a statutory age. I'm just gonna have a minute, sir. Bjarne Laustsen to explain it again so I haven't misunderstood anything. Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that if it was something about going earlier before 70 years, for the sake of having a pension, that was okay? But it may well be that I misunderstood it, and that is why I would like to have Mr. Bjarne Laustsen to explain it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160907	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160909	Of course, I would be happy to do so if needed. We therefore have a number of areas for our police and defence, and so on. That is why I mentioned that possibility. I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160935	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118160938	Does that mean to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that these rules will continue to apply once this bill has been adopted, so that in these areas we can still agree on an earlier retirement age because we then go on with some pension rules? The draft law says that this applies to the agreements concluded before the entry into force and that they can continue, and that must mean that new recruitments in those areas do not have the compulsory retirement age, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is referring to. I guess it's not like that, is it? Bjarne Laustsen believes that in the defense one could continue with the retirement age, even if this bill for new recruits is passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161023	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161024	As I understand it, it is the case that in work-specific disciplines you can have an earlier graduation age. What we are abolishing is also what I understand the Danish People's Party supports, namely that you can continue after you are 70, because you do not have to stop there. That's the flexibility that I think is great with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161044	Then I think I can say thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. No one else has any brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161102	It can sometimes be a little difficult to be wise about what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen means and thinks and does and loves. I'm not gonna be the master of that. I'm also sure that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen sometimes thinks it is difficult to understand what I mean. However, as far as this bill is concerned, the Danish People's Party thinks it is quite fine that there should not be a statutory age in order to work. It must be the case that when you are in the labour market, it is your skills and abilities that determine whether you can continue in the job you have. Today, we have set up a pension for 70 years. With the abolition of the 70-year-old limit, we have a large group in the labour market that must be aware that it is not the case that they are protected in their jobs by the abolition here. It is their skills and qualifications that determine whether they can continue in their jobs until they are 70 or 74 or whatever they want to do. There aren't such specific rules that say: okay, they stop anyway when they're 70, so we take them a little lightly. It is simply the skills and skills that are at stake. In this respect, of course, there are also a number of specific areas to be looked at. It's also in the law, I understand. It is, of course, if it has something to do with certainty; one must be aware of that. However, in the Danish People's Party we are in favour of there being no age limit on the labour market unless there are special things that speak for it. I do not think that just because the defence has an agreement that you should resign at the age of 60, you cannot continue if you manage the task; it must be your skills and qualifications that count. But we will find out in the committee's work whether it really is the case that there are certain areas where there may be an age limit. I have read it in such a way that no 70-year limit can be set or lower: any 60-year or 65-year limit in the agreements concluded under this law. Still, I understood Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that it is going on in the defense, because here it is something with pensions that you have to resign to a certain time of retirement. I think there will also be a debate on pension schemes if that is withdrawn. A pension has been set up for 70-year-olds; I imagine that will have to be changed or extended. I believe that there may be some follow-up legislation that we need to look at. It is my immediate opinion that we will not be able to keep a rule that says pension set at 70 years, because there is an age limit for that. That legislation needs to be looked at and changed. I think the Minister for Employment can follow that too. At any rate, this is something we need to clarify in committee if there is no secondary legislation we should have looked at. Otherwise we'll keep a 70-year limit, even if we cancel this. But that is what we shall take during the committee procedure. I think we need to bring somebody who knows a little more about it and knows how it works. But as a starting point, the Danish People's Party supports the bill here. We think it is okay that we remove the restrictions that are there. When you are healthy and able to do your job, you must be allowed to be on the labour market for a long time. Nowadays, you can also have a job, beside receiving a pension, and actually have quite a lot of income next to your pension payment. So it is not so unknown that many people work long after they actually retire. And it's this retirement age, 65 years, that's going to be raised to 67, and what do I know in the future. Time will tell. But there will be a few things we need to discuss in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161457	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and gives the floor to the next speaker, and that is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118161512	Many older people are much fresher than they were in the past and thus many more able to work at a higher age and they can easily continue on the labour market. That is why the SF is of the opinion that this bill will benefit the majority of employees, which is why we can also vote in favour of it. But I would like to stress very, very strongly that the picture is nuanced, because of course there is also a group of employees who are weakened due to age or illness but who may not themselves recognise it. Therefore, there is a risk that a small group of employees will end their entire working life in a very sad and depressing way in the form of a long and grueling firing case, in which it is then established that the person concerned is no longer in a position to contest his or her job. Since the abolition of the 70-year rule for civil servants in 2008, with the exception of judges, priests, etc., it seems that officials have not experienced any more of this kind of lay-offs, as we have asked them. We must, of course, take note of the fact that there have apparently been no more layoffs, but it is clear that such cases could occur, and this is also strongly emphasised in the consultation answer submitted by the Danish Employers' Association in connection with this bill, because they simply say that they expect more layoffs, including those of 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds, and that may well be when you have passed the 70-year-limit. This is a problem, and I think this is also very strongly highlighted by the fact that the retirement age and the retirement age are being increased in the years to come, and an automatism is being built into it. Unfortunately, in employers' circles there is a startling discussion that there are some older employees who are not productive enough, and when you start talking about it in employers' circles, it is clear that it is the step before you start writing the flyers. That is why I believe that this issue of what we can do to help older workers is now talking about the smaller group, which is weakened by old age or illness, also on the political side, and there I think it is very important that we focus on what we can do to help with some good senior schemes in the labour market. It is also important, of course, that the social partners pay close attention to senior schemes, and there are a number of organisations that do. In Norway they have had a successful project for a number of years, from which I think one can learn. The focus has been on older people in the labour market and on how to help older workers maintain their jobs. It can, for example, be done. It is a question of adapting the content of the job so that it is better suited to the situation of the person at that time in his or her life, or perhaps it can be about necessary continuing training. But they have also worked in Norway to help create networks and job search if you have first lost your job as an older employee. We also have some things going on in Denmark. However, during the committee work on this bill, we will ask from the SF whether the Ministry of Employment can help to obtain more information on this action in the senior area of Norway. Another aspect is that we are faced with public collective bargaining, and another way, as a public employer, of helping older employees in the state, regions and municipalities, is to make greater use of the possibility of continuing to pay a full pension contribution in cases where an older employee wants reduced time and also gets it granted. Full pension payments can be made, for example. I would like to point out to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction, and I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. As I have said, the SF can vote in favour of the bill because it will benefit the majority of older workers, but at the same time we call for a great deal of attention to be paid to this problem. There is a great need for senior schemes, because otherwise a small group of older workers might get terribly caught up. I also hope that the Elders case, which has been very active in lobbying to get this bill out and deal with it, will make a significant contribution to how to construct good senior schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162017	Thank you, sir. Eigil Andersen. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Lund, no, sir. Christian Juhl, the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. That's the thing about remembering the names of the nearest ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162031	Yeah, you should expect him to. L 60 is about age limits, and an age limit can, in certain situations, be a discriminatory act if you use it in the regulation, precisely if you say that when someone is 60, 70 or 80 years old, they can no longer do that or that or that. And I think that's important when we discuss these things, because if it had been religion, it was about having it been because of that or that religion that you were no longer allowed to work at work or if it had been about ethnic background or gender, then there was no doubt in people's minds; we agree entirely on that. That is why it is important that we put it on the right shelf. There are also a great many rules which are regulated by age, but which cannot necessarily be called age discrimination, although some young people may think it unreasonable that they should wait until they are 18 years old to get a driving licence. Others will probably think it is that they are of age only when they are 18 or that there is compulsory education when you are, I think, 6 or 7 years. And in this way we use age to regulate certain areas without anyone seeing it as discrimination. In this case, however, it is a case of an employer being able to include a rule or that in an agreement there may be a rule that when you are 70 years old, you have to resign automatically. We disagree with the fact that, because of one's age, one can be deprived of the opportunity of employment and that is why we are in favour of the proposal. We agree with the LO that the repeal of Paragraph 5 (1). 4, however, cannot be expected to have a greater impact on the retirement age in the Danish labour market, since at least the vast majority of wage-earners will hardly want to remain in the labour market after the age of seventy years. We have a number of questions which we think are important to clarify here because some of the organisations that have responded to the call to comment have asked them. And I think that the Minister has to give us an answer to them, and it could be convenient if we had it already today, but otherwise before the second reading at least. That is why I would like to know first of all whether the Minister will confirm that the law in no way affects the retirement age. Secondly, I would like to know whether the law will have any impact on the provisions of the Civil Service Act on compulsory departure. And thirdly, I would like to hear if you take the comments of the LO on page 2, where they write that they perceive section 2 of the bill. 2. so that the draft law does not interfere with existing collective agreements, even after renewals of collective agreements, whether the Minister agrees with the LO's interpretation of the law, since we think that this is an appropriate way of interpreting matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162321	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162340	This bill will prohibit the possibility of concluding new agreements in both individual agreements and collective agreements on compulsory retirement when an employee reaches the age of 70. In the Liberal Alliances, we think it is really, really good that people work when they get older and that they have the opportunity to do so. That is why we are also opposed to any legislation which prohibits people from continuing to work when they reach a certain age limit. I would just like to emphasise this point. When we oppose this proposal, it is because these are agreements concluded by the social partners. These are agreements that have been concluded in agreements, and these are individual agreements between free people. They have made those agreements, and we think that is a good thing, and we do not think politicians should interfere in that. If this is a problem, then the social partners can get together and make new agreements. This is what we normally say is at the heart of the Danish model, namely that wages and working conditions • Unless there is something special that speaks for reason therefore • is something that the social partners put together and agree on. So you break with that here. It may well be that one part of the social partners, the employees, thinks it is a good idea and therefore they support it. However, it is rather a slant to move on, because there could be a lot of things that one of the parties might want to see was not part of an agreement, or they might want the legislators to make legislation that meant that certain agreements were not to be made and thus took it out of the negotiating room. We don't usually do that in here at Christiansborg, but you do that here; here you take care of one side. This means that there is something that they should not negotiate anymore, and we find this problematic in relation to the way in which the Danish labour market is normally viewed, namely that these are things that they agree on in the labour market. That is why we cannot support this. We believe that the social partners should be free to conclude agreements and to make new agreements, and that is not something that we should interfere with from in here at Christiansborg as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162627	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. However, I would just like to say that there are a few brief comments, and we shall start with Mr Beazley. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162636	Thank you. I have always found it difficult to figure out the policy of the Liberal Alliance, no matter what name it has had, but it is becoming increasingly comical now, because there is certainly not much liberal in the rapporteur's speech here. That is what we usually hear from the rapporteurs all the time. Liberal senses I'm such a freedom thing. Why is it so clear that the rapporteur thinks it important that the Folketing has set a 70-year limit? And why is it that when you come and propose the abolition of the rule, the Liberal Alliance will not help to remove it so that people can continue after they reach the age of 70?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162711	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162716	I'm sorry, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has misunderstood what this bill is all about. It is not the Folketing that has set a 70-year limit. It is the social partners who have agreed on this in agreements and in individual agreements. It is they that had it been the Folketing that had made a law that said to resign when you were 70 years old, I would also have been willing to abolish it. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen's understanding of what liberalism is all about is not very developed, and there is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen may be legally excused. Liberalism is that people are free to make agreements with each other. Adult people, free people can make agreements with each other without politicians interfering in it and that is what politicians are doing here. Had it been the legislators who had said that people have to leave the labour market at 70 years of age, I would also have been against it. However, Christiansborg is involved in agreements concluded in the private labour market between the two sides of industry, and we are therefore opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162815	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162817	It is to protect the freedom of the individual that it is said that, although people have turned 70 years of age, they can continue to work. There we say that it is quite inappropriate that there is a rule that people per. Automatics cannot continue just because they have turned 70 years of age. That is what I thought was liberalism and therefore freedom. If people have had a job for many years and employers are happy with one, the individual is happy to go to work, all the surroundings think it is fine, why should we have that rule? Even the employees' organizations think it is good to remove that rule. Then what's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162854	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118162856	There is no problem but that if it is a problem, then free people can agree something new. I could use the same argument and say that it is terrible that the social partners have made some agreements on wage conditions that mean that there are some people who cannot offer their labour to those jobs, because they cannot sell their labour to those jobs, and therefore we are making a law that means that everyone should be allowed to sell their labour to the wage they now have to negotiate, because it is a violation of their right to sell their labour. Those who pay in those agreements discriminate against some of those people. What do you want, sir? Bjarne Laustsen tell you that? I myself would be against doing so, because the liberal is that it is the social partners who agree on wage conditions and, if you are not covered by an agreement, you can negotiate your own pay and working conditions. But it breaks Mr. Bjarne Laustsen and the Social Democratic Party here, and in this way they are no better than the proposal made by the Left and the DF a few years ago, which would intervene in the law of conflict, and which was also to interfere in the agreements that have now been made on the private labour market. It's basically the same thing on a smaller scale, as well as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen agrees to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163016	What, sir? Bjarne Laustsen would have replied to that, you have to imagine, because he is not getting the floor, not right now, at least. It's sir. Christian Juhl, who is next to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163025	Thank you. I'd like to know if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is in favour of making agreements at a workplace, such as: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is where there is no room for women or for the parties to agree that it is only men who are employed or, for example, men who are employed. Says that only Muslims have the right to work at this workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163049	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163051	Now it's the case that unless there's something going on, most people are 70 years old. It's a little bit sought to compare it to being a Muslim. It's not all of us who are. Not everyone is disabled. It is only half the population who are women and so on, but most of us are 70 years old. That's why I don't think it belongs at all. I think it is a little sought to talk about discrimination here when it is something that we all become. Hopefully we'll all be 70 years old. Most people do, fortunately for that. And that is why it has been sought to compare it with making agreements that should discriminate on the basis of religion or gender or sexuality or race. I think that's what I've been looking for. However, I do think that this is a rather strange discussion, because it is me, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, that I can understand how it stands and defends that pay and working conditions are something that the social partners agree to. We are not interfering in that, and if they want to make new agreements in that area too, they are free to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163205	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163207	I thought it was a little out of the question that we got from Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen. I think it is an important issue to discuss, because there is a dilemma between the two. We might as well say that as it is. There is a dilemma between free contract law and defending some general human rights. When I ask about gender, it's because most people keep their sex. You can get a sex change operation, that's absolutely right, and all the things that belong. Religion can also be changed, that is absolutely right. Let us then try to answer a third question: ethnicity or skin color do not change during your life. Should it be that those who are yellow cannot work on Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's place of work, or should an agreement be reached that they cannot work at his place of work? I think we need to try to find some things that make what we are doing fair and proper. That is why I am asking because I think that an age limit is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163301	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163302	In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that discrimination should be possible on grounds of gender or sexuality or race. But this is something else. This is fundamentally different, because we are all 70 years old. That's the way it is. It is therefore a matter of some parties making an agreement. They can change that agreement if they want to, and probably they will, as people get older and so on. Then these agreements will probably be made entirely by themselves, and we think that is best instead of politicians going in and interfering with the agreements they have entered into. We can also make agreements today which allow people to work longer. People are free to do that. We think that's good. It's freedom. This bill is not an expression of freedom. It is an expression of politicians going in and interfering in agreements made by the parties, free people, which they can change tomorrow, if they want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163414	I can thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, because there are no more brief remarks. We move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163429	There is no doubt that, as we get older and can do more and more, there are also more people who can work at a higher age. That is why there are people who work after retirement age as well. May I remind you that there are also people who work after they are 70 years of age. In this debate one can get the impression that it is simply that it is not possible to work at all when you are 70 years old. That is not the case. But there is therefore a possibility here that the social partners, both in agreements and in individual agreements, can agree on a limit. We do not need to have that limit in an individual or collective agreement. You have the opportunity to have it. As Mr. Eigil Andersen also mentioned one of the concerns about removing the possibility that there may be some people who are exposed to some really unpleasant layoffs that may not be necessary. All other things being equal, we also know that if you have an employee who has been a very skilled and rewarding employee for the company for many years and there is a natural resignation within a foreseeable time, many companies will take responsibility and keep that employee until that resignation comes, rather than going through a nasty firing round, which, moreover, will also be a stupid defeat for the employee. This allows you to resign in a good way. It is possible to agree either collectively or individually if one has experience that in one's business or industry these situations often arise. We think that we should have the freedom to agree in the future, just as lots of people choose not to agree. We think, in fact, that the most thoughtful thing here is that, in the case of individual agreements, the proposal envisages that existing agreements will no longer be valid. I noted that the Socialist rapporteur would not relate to individual agreements at all. However, the Socialist rapporteur has to do so if the Socialist rapporteur is to deal with the draft law. Because the bill is actually concerned with individual agreements. On top of that, the individual agreements are amended retroactively. So, whether the Socialist rapporteur thinks that my vote is high or low, that is the fact of the draft law, and perhaps we should discuss that instead of my vote. I have to admit, I was somewhat surprised by that announcement. As has also been mentioned, we are faced with collective bargaining very soon and, in a conservative way, we believe that the social partners must continue to be allowed to make the agreements they consider appropriate for employers and employees, and we do not really think that this should be interfered with from within. We have noted that, fortunately, the draft law here does not alter the exceptions to the 70-year rule of the Civil Service Act. We think this is quite appropriate, because it has also been recognised that when people reach a certain age, there is a risk that they may not function optimally anymore. Some do, and that is why it would be appropriate for some of them, for the group affected by the derogation, to continue longer, but they have chosen to do so so so that everyone can resign in a good way. We think this is appropriate. This is a pragmatic way of resolving it, and it is, of course, the same pragmatic way to resolve the same problem in agreements or individual agreements. We see no reason to interfere in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163845	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163852	It does not sound as if the Conservative rapporteur has read the bill, because it says that it will only apply from 2016 so that the parties can adapt to it. And then there is one thing that the speech is quite clearly marked by, and that is that the speech must have been written over in the Danish Employers' Association, because it is a little strange that you do not want to deal with it and you must almost agree that people have to resign when they are 70. That is what this is all about: why should we stop with the agreements that have been, when you are 70, if you want to continue? What the rapporteur says is that it will lead to some unpleasant layoffs of people before they reach 70. That is what the rapporteur is saying. Where did you get that? We already have rules that protect people. The principle of non-discrimination is enshrined in the equal treatment law. You're not allowed to fire people there just because they're older than the average.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163952	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118163956	First of all, I would say that I would regard it as quite unpleasant if I were fired because my abilities were no longer stretched if I did not have that recognition and had to go through an unpleasant course, where some had to give me the realization that I could actually not do my job anymore. I would say that was quite unpleasant, regardless of the fact that it was a legitimate dismissal. That's why I'm talking about unpleasant layoffs. In relation to the individual agreements, I just read from the comments to the bill: the draft law will also have an impact on existing individual agreements, which provide for compulsory resignations at or above the 70th year. Such individual agreements become null and void and will therefore not be applicable to employees after the entry into force of this bill. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164047	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164048	I just find it a little strange that the rapporteur does not address the question of whether people should stay until they are 70 or longer if they have the opportunity. I am well aware of the history of the Conservative People's Party, with the harcelation over the early retirement scheme and so on. I have such respect for that. And when it comes to getting fired, we have the voters to decide who should be here, and it can be quite unpleasant. But what's important in a company is that you don't just go out and fire people because they've reached a certain age. Age discrimination shall be prohibited. And it must also be the case that if people want to continue, there is no need to have rules that prevent them from continuing. That's what this is about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164133	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164134	Well, that's how you can go on after you're 70. This can be agreed collectively and individually. That's why there is, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, people who work, even though they are 70 years old, because they have an agreement with their employer to have a job after they are 70 years old. Some of them even have relationships where they saw, for example. has gone down in time, but still contributes with the labour they now think they can contribute and which the employer would also like to receive. So it is precisely not the case that we have a rule that prohibits people from working after they are 70 years old. There's plenty of people working after they're 70. My own father-in-law works even though he's 70 years old. So it's possible. It is a good thing both for companies and for employees that they have the opportunity to do so. So what's the question here, sir? Bjarne Laustsen, of course, is not whether we think it is a good idea for people to keep working if they are capable of doing so. We think so. Please let them do it. What is the discussion here is whether we should decide in here whether to make an agreement where we have decided that there is a time when we should resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164244	Yes, and the next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164248	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, has admitted that it can be very unpleasant to be fired if you do not know the reason. This is the reality of part of the classes that exist in Denmark, namely the lower working class, which has no education. They don't even have the right to know why they're getting fired. It was a wonderful detail to get into the debate, thank you for that. This law is, of course, primarily about some kind of protection, so that the employer cannot force an agreement into which you say you have to leave when you are 70. In this way, I see it as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, primarily as an age discrimination. It is not just an age rule; it is discrimination on an equal footing with the discrimination I mentioned earlier, namely religion, ethnicity and gender, and it is therefore important that we take a more serious position on whether we can just make agreements on it. You can't do that. We must not discriminate against each other, and employers in particular must not discriminate against workers. We have made a set of rules on this because the employer has a priority, namely that he can hire and dismiss. That is why I would like to hear: does the rapporteur really not think that there is age discrimination in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164400	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164402	I was in the course of the debate with the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and I thought: I'm sorry, wasn't it, sir? Christian Juhl, who himself just mentioned that age is a condition and that it is the case that one, for example, is. When you reach the age of 6, you have the obligation and the right of education in this country that you cannot obtain a driving licence until you are 18 years old. Age is a condition for all of us, and hopefully we will reach that age too. And the reality is that it has been estimated that when we are under 18 years old, when we are children, we do not have the responsibility to drive a car. When we have a certain age, we have the age where it is most relevant that we get an education, and therefore age is therefore a condition for all of us. It is also the case that, despite the fact that we live longer and can do more, and that lots of us can easily work after we are 70, there are also some for whom it is not possible anymore, and there are also some for whom age is going to print. What I saw here, too, is precisely that if you have not come to that realization yourself, then this is also a softer way of getting out of the labour market than an ugly lay-off where you have not even understood that you are actually not able to do the job anymore. It is also a question of ensuring that employers dare to hire these people because they know that it is also possible to get rid of them in a decent and proper way if it turns out that they are no longer able to do the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164534	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164536	Thank you. Now it probably depends on which side, whether it is from above or from below, that you are looking at such a problem, because if I said that I would have liked to have introduced an age rule which states that it would be forbidden for all employers to fire anyone who was over 60 years of age I would like them to have the right to decide for themselves when they would resign, then the bourgeoisie would rise in protest and say: What do you go in and interfere with the employer's right to fire people? Yeah, I'd love to, I'd like to say that honestly. It could be that it would give a little more understanding among citizens' thinking people of what we are talking about. And there I would say: when you have reduced working skills or such things because of your age, it is a completely different situation, because then there is an objective explanation of why you are fired and not just a strange age based on numbers. Can the rapporteur not understand that idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164634	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164636	No, quite frankly not, because in neither of the two situations I want to intervene. I do not want to interfere with contract law. Honestly, to start saying that... I don't see the comparison at all. Why would you have to fire someone under 60? Well, you just can't fire someone who's over. I think it's a very, very strange way of thinking. Honestly, I have to admit that. So no, I don't understand that at all. But perhaps there is the difference that I do not think in the same way about everything in class societies, and therefore I am just looking more generally at whether it is appropriate for us to intervene in the freedom of agreement. And I don't think it's here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164720	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, who also has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164722	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur has a very principled approach to interference in the freedom of agreement on the Danish labour market. The rapporteur does not want to interfere with the freedom of agreement. I think that is quite positive. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is this a new view that has been reached in the Conservative People's Party, or how can the rapporteur explain the link between the fine principle and the historically gross intervention that the rapporteur's party was involved in the teacher's conflict in 2013, together with all other parties here in the Folketing, except the Enhedslisten? It was historically gross because people went in and changed, reduced working hours regulations, went in and closed with a stroke of pens all the local agreements that school teachers had made with the municipalities around. It is historic; it has never happened before in a government intervention in a collective bargaining procedure that local agreements have been removed. The Conservative People's Party was involved in that at the time. How does the rapporteur take a firm and principled view that, in this context, freedom of agreement will not be interfered with?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164836	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164838	I concluded my last reply by saying that I do not want to interfere in this context, and that is what it is a question of, namely that we all consider that this is a matter in which it is absolutely not justified to intervene in the freedom of agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164855	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164857	I did not hear it as if there were any reservations. I think it has been some very square, principled and as such fine reports from the Enhedslisten's point of view that one will not interfere with the freedom of agreement. I ask: if it is now the case that, in this context, we do not want to do so, what are the principles used in the Conservative People's Party when it comes to interfering in the freedom of agreement, because I understand that we are prepared to do so in other contexts? So how do you distinguish? Is it more important to intervene in working conditions for, I believe, 60 000 primary school teachers and, with a blow, to reduce their working conditions quite tremendously than to make a relatively modest break with something that is difficult to perceive in other ways than age discrimination? What kind of steering stick is there in the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164952	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118164954	We have the guiding principle that, to the extent that we believe we can avoid it, we must avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165002	Then I would like to thank Mrs Charlotte Dyremose. There are no more brief comments, and the time has come for it to be the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165010	Thank you for an exciting and sometimes fundamental debate on this bill. I have deduced from this that I should like to express my thanks to a large part of the Danish Parliament, which is about to support the bill. Basically, it is a question for me of seniors who want to stay on the labour market if they have the opportunity to do so and, of course, if they want it not to be discriminated against. I think it was sir. Christian Juhl, who had some specific questions to which I shall try to answer. Among other things, there were: asked what this means in relation to retirement age, and the answer is: nothing; and what it means in relation to the civil servant model, and the answer is: nothing. I do not know whether I am clarifying anything now or whether I am starting a new avalanche, but let me say in relation to some of the debates I have heard here: with the bill it will not be possible in future to make new provisions in collective agreements which describe that employees should automatically resign from their position just because they are 70 years old or more. If collective agreements already exist in certain sectors on automatic resignation, it will be possible for the social partners to maintain them. With the bill, therefore, we do not break into existing collective agreements. And then it is important to be aware that the draft law is not due to enter into force until 1 January 2016. In this way, the parties concerned will have the opportunity to conform to the new rules. As I have listened to during some of the debate, it was something that was, as it were, wanted and that is why I am saying this. But I would also like to say that we shall of course endeavour to respond to the committee's work quickly and precisely, so I shall look forward to it. However, I would like to thank the many rapporteurs who welcomed the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165211	Then there are a few brief comments. For the time being, it is only a few, and it is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF, who starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165219	As mentioned above, SF also supports the bill because it benefits the majority. However, as I tried to point out in my rapporteur's speech, as the debate has also shown, there will be a minority who can get into trouble because they have not benefited from greater health, but are weakened by age or illness and may be in the sixties. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Employment: when we consider that the retirement age and retirement age are also automatically raised, is the Minister for Employment prepared to focus on what can be done to help older workers who can get into trouble in terms of better senior schemes, including some schemes where the state can contribute different kinds of contributions? It is clear that the social partners will also have to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165321	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165323	I just want to say that I think it is important to focus on the fact that this bill abolishes discrimination which, as I see it, is age discrimination. There have then been some debates which I think everyone has its justification. Among other things: the debate which Mr. Eigil Andersen now travels on how we ensure that the last years in the labour market will be something, both the employer and the employee etc. gets a good experience out of. I think that is an important fundamental debate which I think should be taken and which I would also like to take part in. I don't think it's based on this bill, but the debate seems to me to be proper, fair and real.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165408	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165410	When I have taken this up here, it is because, in my opinion, there will be a minority who will have to leave the labour market in an unpleasant way through a firing case and who might have been helped through a senior scheme. That's why I brought it up. However, I am pleased that the Minister is positive about the fact that this is an issue we should be interested in together and that we should try to find out what can be done politically. And I would stress again that this is also in relation to the rising retirement age and the rising retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165447	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165450	I would just like to say that I think that, when we are going to stay longer on the labour market, it is an extremely relevant debate, how the last years on the labour market can also be a good experience for all parties. I would like to confirm that once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165502	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165505	Thank you. I do not know whether it is because my hearing is very poor or whether it is the Minister's voice that is very weak, but I did not hear all the answers, so if I repeat myself, the Minister must excuse me. I understand that this will not affect retirement age, nor will it have any impact on the provisions of the Civil Service Act on compulsory retirement. However, the third question I did not hear the answer to: does the Minister agree with the wording of the LO's consultation answer on section 2 of the draft law, namely that the draft law does not interfere with existing collective agreements, nor after renewal of the agreement? Understandably, they believe that an agreement is now an agreement and that it will not be removed, but just renewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165549	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165551	The first two points on retirement age and the post of civil servant are clearly yes. And then, sir... Christian Juhl simply excuse me, because there are some things here that I am not a hundred percent inside, and when paragraphs are referred to, I get a little nervous about having to give a hundred percent clear answer. That is also why, in my first reply, I read out the two sentences on collective agreements. I hope that Mr. Christian Juhl will ask that question in writing, and we will of course reply quickly, accurately and clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165627	Sir. Christian Juhl? There are no further comments right now, but I am sure there will be a written question. Then I can say thank you to the Minister, because then there will be no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165658	The debate is open and the first rapporteur to speak is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165735	Thank you. In its modernisation programme, the government has an ambition to make the public sector more efficient for 12 billion. kr. towards the year 2020. And that seems to us to be quite reasonable. So it can be said, since the recently adopted Finance Act actually increases public spending by 1%, that it is gratifying that everything else is equally standing here with a legislative proposal that actually reduces public expenditure in the long term. In this case, we're talking about $4 million. kr. I am not in favour of this report, but I would like to make it clear that I am not in favour of it. With this proposal for the eIncome model, it is intended to streamline and simplify the administration of a number of services by the municipalities. In addition, citizens will have increased opportunities for digital self-service, and revenue regulation of free space allowances will be made more correct. So, all in all, the action that the Left can support is that. For the Left, of course, it is also crucial that the ambition to increase digital self-service does not at the same time mean that those citizens who do not have or may not want to use digital self-service are being pressured for digital self-service. And I would like to say that it is the immediate opinion of the Left that this issue has been taken into account in the draft law, because there are exceptions for citizens who are not expected to be able to use digital self-service, and there is also the possibility of excluding certain groups for digital mail. So, overall, the Left is in favour of the bill and generally in favour of the ambition of a more efficient public sector and can therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165939	Thank you to Mrs Karen Ellemann. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118165948	Thank you. I shall be as brief as the previous rapporteur. Today's bill is about making everyday life a little easier, and when parents apply for free space allowances, it is not so stupid at all. It's more common sense for us to change the rules so that there will no longer be the same administrative challenges when it comes to looking for a free space, because you don't have to have this trouble finding and documenting your income when in most cases it's about information that is already available in SKAT's registers. In this way, we can also more effectively avoid miscalculation as a starting point for the majority of free space grants. At the same time, the proposal allows for more automation, digitalisation on the authority side, which is also sensible and can release hands for other tasks. And even though it is a little more about the administrative part of today's free space grant, I would also like to mention how important it is that we have a free space allowance which will ensure a better start to life for many children, because it is not the economy of the parents that is at stake and which will determine whether children and young people can attend day-to-day services, leisure homes, club offers or SFO. So that gives us a little more equal opportunity. And as a former primary school teacher, I have seen great success with the free space scheme in practice. We Social Democrats think it is sensible to modernise the rules, as we have now said, and we therefore also support the legislative proposal. And I must say from the Minister's party, the Radical Left, that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170119	We thank Mrs Annette Lind and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170133	This bill follows on from a proposal we adopted in the spring to digitise the income regulation of social pensions and housing subsidies, and, like this, this bill is part of the great digitalisation regime that we are subject to these years. The bill is part of the implementation of the e-income project under the heading of effective case management and control in the common public digitalisation strategy, and it is the intention of the law to streamline and simplify administration, to improve the possibilities for digital self-service and to allow a more precise and correct payment of financial free space allowances for day-to-day services, leisure homes and club offers, etc. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree with this overall aim, namely to adjust the rules so that there will be a simpler and more precise administration and so that the free space grant is based on the actual figures and as a starting point can be based on information that is already in the system, so that you have to provide as little information as possible. And that's excellent. It is part of the system that communication takes place digitally, as far as possible, both the application and the consultation in relation to when the aid is changed. For the vast majority, it will not be a problem. For the vast majority, it will be a simplification, but then there is a group that is unable to communicate digitally or does not manage it. Fortunately, there is an opportunity to obtain an exemption from being digital if one is able to apply for it and if one gets it done, but what about the group that does not? And that is the third that is today neither digital nor exempt. Therefore, the Danish People's Party would have liked to have looked at how it is ensured that this large group, which is neither part of the digitalisation nor is excluded, is not lost. In connection with a previous draft law before the summer holidays, the Minister has made clear what responsibility the municipalities have for helping those who cannot. It was a clear statement which it is now, of course, up to the municipalities to live up to. However, we are already after 1 November, when it became obligatory for everyone to have a digital mailbox, alternatively to apply for exemption. But what about the third, which is neither-or? How do we make sure they don't lose? Today, of course, there is a group that never responds to the letters they receive, but there is an opportunity for some to see that there was a letter there that could be relatives, health caregivers or social educators who come to the home. That option is gone when the mailbox is digital. We simply have to ensure that it is clarified how the municipality is obliged to help those citizens who, for one reason or another, cannot find out. And yes, we've said this before, this digital thing doesn't disappear when the old people aren't here anymore. A very large proportion of those who are not with us today are young people. Some people need to figure it out and come along, but there'll be a group left. How do we help them? So if we can have a good dialogue with the minister so that we can be sure that no one is lost, the Danish People's Party would like to support the bill, but of course we look forward to the committee work and also have the necessary questions sent to the minister. If he can already answer today, that would be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170514	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party and gives the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170529	Unfortunately, my party's rapporteur, Mrs Trine Mach, cannot be present, and that is why I have promised to give her speech. SF supports the proposal to amend the daily offer law and the other relevant laws, so that the eIndkomsten model for financial free space arrangements can facilitate the administration of both parents and municipalities. Like the whole SF, I am very much in favour of systems being available for users and being designed on user terms. Heavy and cumbersome systems need to get out, and easy and simple systems need to get in. And here, the eIndsion model seems to facilitate the economic administration associated with the income-regulated free space system. It is crucial for the SF that the citizens who need to use the system can actually see it through themselves and benefit from using it. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Minister intends to draw up an information campaign which can be coordinated with a similar initiative for the e-Income model for housing support and pensions. This should be a focus of attention during the committee procedure. Modernisation and digitisation must be implemented wisely, because if this happens too quickly or for top-level management, we risk that users will not be included. People can't feel run over. However, digitalisation is, of course, the way forward, and we must continue to develop good solutions. One of my wishes for the future digitalisation is that it will be easier, perhaps even fully automated, for parents who are entitled to a free space, to apply for and get the free space. We look forward to the further legislative process, and I should therefore like to say this from the rapporteur of my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170708	Thank you, sir. Eigil Andersen and give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Eigil Andersen. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118170717	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, a purely technical legislative proposal, but it is largely sensible technology, because it means a much faster and more precise regulation of financial free space grants and also simpler rules for reimbursement and after-payment of subsidies and housing subsidies, so that citizens get what they are entitled to, no more or less. In addition, there are some administrative gains, and that is not to be despised either. In addition, we will have a small but clear improvement, which will benefit people with small incomes in particular, namely that, in future, the citizen will be able to receive back-paid financial free space allowances if he has received too little, which has not been legally available until now. After all, the Enhedslisten is not in favour of the government's digitalisation strategy, as it is basically based on coercion, in which some exceptions have been made, but it is left entirely to the municipalities to manage. And if it is a nice municipality, if you may say so, yes, it goes just fine, because then you will look kindly at the people who are going to be exempt. But, as others have said, we also have serious concerns about this whole strategy. We are afraid that a great many people we are talking about a six-digit number, i.e. hundreds of thousands of people are being hijacked. There we think it would have been much more sensible to build this on the basis of volunteering. Then it would probably resolve over time without the problems that can arise for a large number of citizens with this obsessive approach. But now the digitalisation strategy has been adopted. Unfortunately, there is a solid majority in favour of it in the Danish Parliament and, of course, we are looking at the small improvements that can come out of it on the individual points, as is the case here. So all in all, this is a sensible bill. We would then hope that the rest of the government's modernisation programme, with a view to making the profit of the 12 billion. kr. Staying at the same reasonable level as this, so that we do not have to experience any more cases of gross interference with the public employees' agreements similar to what hit the teachers in the spring of 2013. We also have our doubts about this, that is to say, whether it is something that we will not see in the future, since the modernisation strategy and the 12 billion are explicitly included in it. kr. In terms of efficiency gains, the working hours of public employees are mentioned. It is probably not for them to have shorter working hours with full compensation for wages and more influence on their own working hours. We will, of course, keep a close eye on how this is going to work. There's a way to get to the 12 billion. kr., and we still need to get the veil on how the government will find them. However, as I said, this small step is sensible, so it supports the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171021	Yes, thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. And we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171030	Thank you. We are now dealing with L 62, which is a technical legislative proposal, and I will not repeat many of the sensible remarks made by my colleagues. When there are legislative proposals which simplify and debureaucraticise, and these are not just headlines, but are actually also simplification and debureaucratisation, it is not always that what is in the title is also what is in the law, but it is my opinion that that is what we are dealing with today. Of course, we would like to see more of that in the Liberal Alliance. It is the case that when you pass a lot of laws, and we do that here in the Folketing, you should also clean up after yourself. Then more of it! I also wish that the ball would be given up to the public employees so that they could come up with proposals for cleaning up. Where is it that as politicians we have to clean up after us? Where is it that we need to simplify so that we constantly make life easier for all those people who go to work every day and who do not need things to pile up, as they often do, when we legislate too much in here at Christiansborg? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171140	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. Then it is the next rapporteur, and it is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171148	Thank you. After a short and, of course, totally unfair break, it is a great honour to be back on the speaking chair of the Folketing. I can tell you from the outset that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. The Government's desire in this case to streamline and simplify is entirely in line with our position. It is necessary that both municipalities, regions and the state take advantage of all the opportunities available to streamline their administration, as well as simplify citizens' access to public services in everyday life, especially through digital self-service. It is also an improved service to citizens that changes in revenue affect their own payment as soon as possible and, at the same time, reduce the risk of misallocations. And all of this is the case in the proposal. One thing: During the consultation period, KL and KMD have focused particular attention on uncertainties about the economic and administrative burden of the changes. I have read the reply from the Ministry, but I think it is important that we focus on these points of attention, so that in practice the proposal also meets the many good objectives of efficiency and simplification and does not become an administrative or an economic burden for the municipalities or cause extra trouble for the citizens. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171317	Thank you, sir. Daniel Rugholm. Then I can give the floor to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171326	Thank you. I would like to thank you for all the comments. I am also very, very pleased to see that there is such broad support for the proposal. As several speakers have pointed out, the proposal forms part of the implementation of the Government's modernisation agenda, the 2020 plan, and is at the same time an essential element in ensuring correct payments of social benefits. Specifically, the bill as part of Wave 2 is included in the eIndkomse project under the heading "Efficient case management and control' in the joint public digitisation strategy. In wave 1 similar eIncoming models have been adopted for e.a. housing aid and pensions, as some also mentioned. The main objective of this bill is to support the forward-looking efficiency and simplification of the administration of municipalities and to improve the ability of citizens to provide digital self-service, as well as something that is also right, really important: more precise and correct revenue regulation of financial free space allowances in day-to-day services, leisure homes, club services, etc. This ensures that citizens receive exactly the subsidy to which they are entitled neither more nor less. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for its willingness to deal with this bill, and I also look forward to a positive committee work and, of course, as we usually do, will be available if there are any more detailed questions in the committee's work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171459	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171520	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171547	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on strengthening efforts to preserve endangered Danish rune stones is a noble proposal. After all, Runestone is an inalienable part of our cultural heritage, which every generation has a great responsibility to maintain in good condition. After all, it is important in the discussion on the proposed proposal to say that it is not just about the fact that efforts to preserve the endangered Danish rune stones are important, because it is certainly so. What is crucial is that the Danish Cultural Authority is already in full swing with an effort to ensure by 2020 the conservation of all threatened rune stones for many years to come. The Board set aside 2.5 million. kr. of its own resources for that purpose. The Danish Cultural Authority reports that an assessment of the 16 most threatened rune stones has been carried out by the end of the year and that conservation of 7 of them has been initiated. During 2015 and 2016, the Board will have carried out an assessment of the other around 50 rune stones standing outdoors, and it is expected that conservation, overcovering or refugee for indoor location can be carried out within the next few years. It is the board's assessment that the effort can be made for a total of 2.5 million. kr. The assessment is based on the management's experience and has been carried out in consultation with the board's advisory stone conservators. About 50 of the 66 rune stones today standing outdoors are in cemeteries, and the Danish Cultural Authority has therefore entered into a dialogue with the Ministry of Churches, and a detailed explanation has been agreed for measures that the church authorities themselves can take as part of the care of the stones. Against this background, I have full confidence that the Danish Cultural Authority will undertake the task of ensuring the preservation of all the threatened rune stones on a sound professional basis. That is why the government cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171747	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171753	Thank you to the Minister, also for calling it a noble proposal, and thank you for finally starting work on preserving and preserving our rune stone. That's really great. The minister says 2.5 million has been set aside. kr. Is that 2.5 million? kr. In total, or is it a year? That is one question. The second is that the Minister will now preserve and preserve seven of the most threatened rune stones. There I want to know what methods to use. Is it a stone conservator that is intended to be used, or is it archaeologists, as it has been so far? These are my questions at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171838	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171840	That's 2.5 million. kr. In the first place, we'll see how far they go. But it is clear that there is an obligation on the Danish Cultural Authority to carry out the work on cultural heritage and to ensure it and the conservational areas, including rune stones. This is done in cooperation with stone conservators and other professional expertise. As far as I am aware, it is stone conservators who have to do with this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171916	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171919	That all sounds very good. The question then is whether the 2.5 million. kr. That's enough, but we'll find out along the way. What I really want to know is whether the Minister would like to tell us a little more about the methods that will then be used to preserve these stones if we ask a written question. I am well aware that the Minister is not a stone conservator, so she cannot answer that from a platform in this Chamber, but could we get an answer to that if we have a written question on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118171958	Yeah, definitely. And I would like to acknowledge the interest of the Danish People's Party in these issues. Therefore, we are, of course, fully prepared to be in a dialogue with the Danish People's Party in order to answer the questions that are relevant in this case. That is why, of course, the answer is yes. What I would just like to point out at the same time is that in Denmark as a whole we have 33,000 conservation-worthy memory memories, which we must maintain and, I was just saying, servicers, that is, watch out. That is why it is clear that there is a plan of action for this type of task, and then you are going to give priority to the best professional assessment of what is most necessary when you get to grips with such a process. But we are prepared to answer entirely relevant questions in this context, including how to do it professionally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172100	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172121	This resolution by the Danish People's Party aims to strengthen efforts to preserve the Danish rune stones. The Left welcomes the focus on safeguarding cultural heritage. It is important for a strong society that its citizens know their history and know and understand the culture of society based on the development of generations. That is why we must do a great deal to safeguard the cultural heritage in the broadest sense, both in order to ensure the popular approach to cultural heritage, but also in order to safeguard the research side. Research into cultural heritage is very important for reading the thoughts and actions of the generations of the past. In line with the development of research, including technological research, new aspects can be constantly identified. So it is a good argument for the preservation of cultural heritage that there is no deterioration. This also applies, of course, to the almost 200 rune stones we have in Denmark. Many of the rune stones, about 100, are secured from the weather after they have arrived indoors. But 66 are outdoors in the landscape or at churches, just as about 20 are walled in the outer walls of churches, and finally 5 are used as tombstones. From studies in 1999 by the then Forest and Nature Board, which under the law was responsible for e.g.: The rune stones, we know that 16 rune stones were acutely threatened, and the recommendation was to cover them or move them indoors, and another 40 were recommended for preservation. But only 3 stones have been taken care of, among other things. the two Jelling Stones at Jelling Cemetery that have been covered. I have a personal relationship with the little Jellingstone. In 1679, when Jelling Church burned, my ancestor Laurits Andersen Gonsager was priest and minister at Jelling Church and then used the little Jelling Stone as an altar at the outdoor services which he had to hold in the cemetery until Jelling Church was rebuilt. Such alternative uses have probably also been exposed to other rune stones. Last Sunday I was in Glavendruplunden on Nordfyn to see the rune stone Glavendrup stone, as I have done so often before. It's a fantastic experience. Glavendrupstenen has Denmark's longest rune inscription, and therefore there is every reason to do something to preserve and secure the rune stone, so that future generations can also have the same experience. And, as I said before, research can continue as new research methods and new research technologies progress. The proposers propose that a full-time stone conservator be employed, as well as expenses relating to fees, materials, driving etc. of a total of 6,7 million. kr. over a 6-year period. The Left cannot support the funding contained in the proposal. In the international cultural exchange account, § 21.21.46.20, there are no available funds at all in relation to the 6.7 million. kr., as the proposers estimate the cost will be over the next 6 years. Against this background, as well as because of the work initiated by the Minister, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172454	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172457	Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all a service information, because of course you cannot know if you are not living on Funen, but we call it Glavendrup I have seen it myself, and it is nice that the rapporteur has been out to see it. Thank you. The rapporteur then says that there are no funds from international cultural funds. That's not true. In other words, an inventory from 2008 showed that 188 million were spent in the Ministry of Culture alone. kr. A total of 280 million is spent each year. kr. a year on cultural exchange. It's the Lars Liebst report, the art support report that shows it, so I'm not making it up. When I have informed you of this, does the Left really not think that we can re-prioritize a little bit of the means to preserve our rune stone?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172558	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172610	I have to deal with what the proposal says, and the proposal says quite specifically that it is on section 21 of the Finance Act • that is, the section of the Ministry of Culture and then it says that it is for international cultural exchange. And on that account, that's the one I read from before, and that's the one called 21.21.46.20 • there's no funds at all for what's proposed here. But if the Danish People's Party now proposes something quite different, it is a different matter, but on the account that is included in the proposal itself, there are no funds available. But that is not the only reason why I rejected the proposal. It is also because the Minister has indicated that work has been started, and we shall see how far that goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172648	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172650	But there is obviously a misunderstanding. What I am referring to is the total amount of money we spend on cultural exchanges internationally, and that is a few hundred million kroner a year at least, perhaps even more. That is the money that we will use a small part of to strengthen the preservation of our rune stones. Now I ask again: will the rapporteur of the Left not, however, help to re-prioritize just a small part? And now I am not talking about the account called specific international cultural exchanges, but it is the cultural funds used for international cultural exchanges in general that we want to re-prioritize.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172730	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172732	I fully agree that if you comb the Ministry of Culture's budget, you can easily find 6.7 million. kr. over the next six years. I will certainly admit that. But I just have to deal with what the motion for a resolution itself says, and that is something quite different from what the author now mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172753	Thank you, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, and then I give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Troels Ravn from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118172804	Thank you. I must point out that I am also speaking on behalf of the Radicals. We Social Democrats, like the Danish People's Party, are concerned with preserving Danish memory memories. This certainly also applies to the rune stones. Concrete historical objects are important for our common Danish identity and culture. However, we do not agree with the need to allocate more money to the preservation of rune stones at the expense of international cultural exchanges. The Danish People's Party's proposals are therefore problematic for several reasons. Firstly, the money must be taken from international cultural exchanges. We have a proud and strong culture that we need to use actively to market Denmark in the world. Try to consider what it means for Denmark that the whole world knows Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales, the dogma films, Danish design etc. At the same time, we must renew and develop the Danish culture in interaction with other cultures. It is the very purpose of cultural exchange that it allows Danish artists, for example, to come abroad and promote Danish culture and market Denmark as a country. We must not barricade behind our own borders and be afraid to get out. It is only in the meeting with others that we can become aware of what is specially Danish. It is therefore a really bad idea to cut back on this effort. Secondly, I am a little surprised by the timing of the proposal by the Danish People's Party, because the Danish Cultural Authority has already allocated money to preserve the Danish rune stones. So why will the Danish People's Party set aside money for something that is already in process? Each year we have set aside DKK 1.360,000. in the Finance Act to preserve rune stones and other ancient monuments, and in 2014 those funds have been supplemented by an additional grant for an effort for the most threatened rune stones. This is an important effort and, of course, we fully support it. An advisory stone conservator has estimated that the proposed 6.7 million. kr. is very highly placed to carry out the task. The expert estimates that the effort can be raised for just 2.5 million. kr., and the money is therefore set aside in the Danish Cultural Authority. The Socialists have confidence in the Danish Cultural Authority and in the fact that the rune stones have already been taken care of, and although this resolution is sympathetic, I therefore think it is unnecessary. This would affect the Danish cultural exchange, which is so important for Denmark, and it is a completely wrong way to go in Danish cultural policy. That is why neither radicals nor the Socialists can support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173103	Then there is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173106	Thank you. Now it is the case that rune stones are world heritage, and therefore it makes sense to re-prioritize some of the funds we spend on international cultural exchange to our rune stones, so that tourists, also from outside Denmark, can come and see them in the future. Then the rapporteur mentions that 1.3 million has been set aside. kr., and that's right. But it is all in all that one spends 1.3 million. kr. to restore the thousands of ancient memories we have. It's not just for the rune stones. And we have just been able to see that since 1999 there have been a large number of rune stones that have been allowed to weather. So does the rapporteur not think it is high time that some people did something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173152	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173155	After all, we fully agree that it is important for us to preserve the memory of the past. This is important for our culture, for our history and for our identity, and it certainly also applies to the rune stones. The Danish Cultural Authority is aware of special problems in the conservation of rune stones and therefore consults among others. with stone conservators with international experience. I have confidence in the work of the board and in the assessment of how strengthened efforts are to be carried out. That is why I believe that we have taken due care in this matter and that the motion for a resolution is therefore unnecessary, albeit sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173239	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173241	I would not say that due diligence is not enough, because the problems have been known since 1999. In other words, it was 15 years ago that all the various rune stones that were about to wetter were first registered. Now something finally happens after 15 years. I know that the rapporteur has not been in the Folketing all that time, and I have not, but due diligence cannot be called it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173312	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173314	I think it is comprehensive for the process that we have now started, so that every year we set aside DKK 1.360.000. in the Finance Act to preserve rune stones and indeed to keep other past memories, and that in 2014 we are supplementing those funds with an additional grant of 2.5 million. kr. And I consider that to be due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173343	Then I'll be able to say thank you to Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173356	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this debate. It is always interesting to take up important things and have them turned around in this Chamber. This gives me the opportunity to say yes to the fact that the ancient memories we have here at home are valuable and worth preserving. It is also being dealt with to a great extent. In fact, I always thought it was fun to take my children around Denmark and abroad and look at past memories, because they tell the present about our past and roots. They're kind of out there filled with stories for us who've come to. We have stood there together and wondered at the wonder that the words on the stone have actually been preserved for over 1,000 years despite the wind and the weather. It has given rise to reading books and hearing stories, and that is something that sets the imagination in motion. So far so good: yes, we must preserve our ancient memories. Our cultural heritage is important to our identity and to our tale of the identity of our country and our culture. Also the culture of how we have evolved into what we are today. We have done this by being both a warlike Viking people who went out, but also by trading with Arab merchants back in time. Very many Danes and very many foreigners visit each year the famous memories of the past. We know it from the rune stone in Jelling and from other rocks; some Funen stones have also been mentioned, and I shall spare myself to mention them here. So we agree with the proposers that it is worth securing and preserving our ancient memories. Both ancient monuments like rune stones, but also the monuments and buildings that we have, so that they do not fall into decay. I think it is positive that from 1999 money has been set aside on the Finance Act to preserve rune stones, of course not only rune stones, but also rune stones, and in general preserve past memories. And in 2014 quite separate funds were actually set aside for the most acutely threatened rune stones. We do not support the specific motion for a resolution, and we do not, because initiatives have already been taken by the Danish Cultural Authority to support the preservation of ancient memories. by examining the rune stones' need for restoration, what I think is wise and because the Danish Cultural Authority does not believe that as much money is needed as is set aside in the motion for a resolution. Then I also think that there is something symbolic in this proposal, namely that the funds should be taken from international cultural exchanges. It is paradoxical: the rune stones have come into existence at a time when we also from Denmark and the Nordic side mingled in the world around us. There were Viking raids to Normandy, England and Iceland; we know how history has evolved. Trades have been made with Arab merchants around Denmark, and we have knowledge that metals have been found that are certainly not found at these latitudes. So we are a small country that has always been dependent, both economically and culturally, on cultural relations. The SF would like that opportunity to be preserved and therefore we cannot help pointing to the funding proposed here. Because it will take funds from the cultural exchange that we seem to have always given great inspiration to Denmark. It should be able to do so in the future, which is why we are voting against the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173802	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173805	There is one thing that puzzles me: the previous rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party also mentioned that the Danish Cultural Authority estimates that the 6.7 million. As the motion for a resolution says, it is far above the target and only 2.5 million. kr. I may have missed something, but where is that assessment? Where did the rapporteur come from? I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173832	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173834	However, in relation to the amount proposed by the proposers here, there is a figure of 6.7 million. kr. We simply believe that this is a symbolic policy, and we will not contribute to it. And I'm leaning on what I've been informed, and it's that the Danish Cultural Authority supports conservation and that they don't think this estimate is appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173908	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173909	But that is where I wonder a little: why did I not get the knowledge that some rapporteurs in this Chamber seem to have? That's not fair. I have had this proposal drawn up by a stone conservator, and it extends over six years, which means that it is just over one million. kr. a year. Then both Social Democratic and SF's rapporteur come to the Chamber and say that they have a different assessment from the Danish Cultural Authority. I didn't get that assessment. Does the rapporteur think it is fair that I do not have the same approach to knowledge as others in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173942	Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118173944	No, of course I don't think that's fair under any circumstances. I expect us all to have the same access to knowledge, but we do not necessarily have the same management of our knowledge. What I am aware of is that the Danish Cultural Authority considers that the funds they have for this restoration are sufficient in relation to a work that has been set in motion. And then I really appreciate the fact that you also want to examine the need for these rune stones, and when you do this in the Danish Cultural Authority, I have confidence that they are the ones who do the best job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174019	Then it's mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174035	It is, after all, a proposal that concerns part of our cultural heritage. We should all be involved in preserving the rune stones far into the future, and I think it is good when we have a discussion about both why and how. On the other hand, however, I would like to point out that the proposers have a funding which I am in the opposite direction. The funding consists of spending 6.7 million. kr. from the funds that would otherwise be used for international cultural exchanges. Our international cultural exchange is important both for Denmark and for the countries outside. I think that the Danish People's Party is a little narrow-minded when they point to their own navel, unlike the Enhedslisten, which is always in favour of international culture. It is a big difference between the national DFs and us, who are internationalists. What are we doing to secure the rune stones as part of our cultural heritage? I thought it sounded good, as the Minister could inform us that the Danish Cultural Authority is in the process of securing all threatened rune stones with their own funds as funding. I believe that we must keep up with what is happening to the threatened rune stones in the next few years. The question is whether the Danish Cultural Authority's use of 2.5 million. kr. is enough to secure the rune stones. With this question, I would like to say that we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174203	There is no brief comment to Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. So I say thank you to him, and then we go ahead with the next rapporteur, and as far as I can see, it must be Mr. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174232	After all, the rune stones are a testimony to us from the past. It is cultural heritage that we must preserve. It bears witness to our culture, it bears witness to our history, and we must bear that on to future generations. That is why I also think it is commendable that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and the Danish People's Party have tabled this motion for a resolution because it sheds light and attention on the importance of maintaining our rune stone as a most important testimony from the past that we must pass on to the future. I can also understand from the Minister that, according to the Minister's assessment, the funds have already been set aside to restore the rune stones that need it, and it sounds a bit like there are different assessments of how much is needed and how much has been set in motion. In the Conservative People's Party, we have great sympathy for the proposal. We really wanted to support it as a starting point, but, as other rapporteurs have also done, we do not agree with the funding, and I would say that we should then be able to find out. Well, if that's the 6-7 million. It would be crazy if we could not find that money in one way or another. In fact, in the view of the Conservative People's Party, our cultural budget is too small. We would like to place more money in the cultural budget to preserve our cultural heritage. In any case, it would be small change in relation to the budget of the state. But now we hear from the Minister that so much money is not needed at all, so I think it would be interesting during the committee work to clarify what kind of information the Minister has, what kind of calculations it is, what kind of process we can see for ourselves over the next few years to ensure the rune stones to be secured. Then we can either be convinced that everything is as it should be, that it is in order, that we can be pleased about that, or perhaps we can see that there is still a need to do a little more, but then it will not be with support for the Danish People's Party's proposal, because we disagree with the funding. But, as I said, we must be able to talk about another way of financing it, to which there may be broad support, if there is therefore a need, despite the Minister's assurances that everything is as it should be. But I hope the Minister is right, because then everything is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174527	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed. We have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174546	Thank you to all the rapporteurs and to the Minister for the debate. This was, of course, a rather surprising debate in many ways. It is always nice to know that some funds have actually been set aside to preserve the rune stones, namely 2.5 million. kr. All in all, and as far as I could understand from the Minister, the seven most threatened rune stones are first addressed, and the rest will be looked at along the way, and that is a great thing. The Minister also said that stone conservators are being used, which is also a step forward, because today it is just archaeologists who are responsible for the preservation of rune stones, and the Minister also said that she would enter into dialogue with the Ministry of Churches about the stones standing by the churches and in the churches, and that is absolutely excellent. What remains is why we have been waiting for so many years. You have recorded the threatened rune stones in 1999, you have known about the problems, you have known about the weathering, and it is not until 2014 that something happens. Why, then, it is only now and here, is it possible to guess, but it is certainly a question that we should have asked in connection with the work of the committee, so why on earth has been waiting for so many years. As I also asked the Minister, we also need a clarification of the methods, not because I understand it, but there are others who do, and I hope that we can get a professional evaluation of the methods that will be used. Because it is not so simple just to throw yourself over these rune stones, you have to do it right, and there are, as far as I am aware, not methods today that are absolutely sure, so there must also be development work in that field. Several rapporteurs then said, among other things. The Socialist Group believes that 1.3 million has been set aside. kr. for the conservation of rune stones. That's not true! I have to repeat that 1.3 million has been set aside. kr. to preserve the thousands of ancient memories we have in Denmark, and then 5 million have been set aside. kr. for supervision and databases. This means that much more money is spent on supervision than on conservation, and therefore it would be nice that in the longer term we could find some more money to renovate and preserve our ancient memories, including the rune stones. And I would really like to thank the Conservative People's Party, which clearly said on the platform that what we have to do about finding out the funding must be done, and I would like to thank Mr. Lars Barfoed for, because I thought it was very liberating. Sir. Lars Barfoed also said that we must have all these things clarified in committee, and I am very much in favour of that. So all in all, however, it is a good day for the rune stones, because after all, some money is now being set aside for the conservation work. I also hope, of course, that during the work of the committee we will be able to find out how what the Minister has said is going to be done by 2020. These were to be my final words, and I thank you once again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174919	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141118174945	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 92 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut, Javnaðarflokkurin and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) a group of 87 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Sambandsflokkurin. Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included on the Danish Parliament's website. 1 Trine Gregorius (appointed by S) 2 Lars L. Nielsen (appointed by RV) 3 Line Barfoot (appointed by EL) 4 Torben Dalby Larsen (appointed by V) 5 Ole Hyltoft (appointed by DF) 6 Dennis Nørmark (appointed by LA)].
ParlaMint-DK_20141118175019	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 92 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut, Javnaðarflokkurin and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) a group of 87 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Sambandsflokkurin. Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included on the Danish Parliament's website. To members: 1 Torben Hansen (S) 2 Peter Thyssen (appointed by RV) 3 Jeppe Brogaard (appointed by SF) 4 Pelle Andersen-Harild (appointed by EL) 5 Jens Vibjerg (appointed by V) 6 Henrik Høegh (V) 7 Ole Pilgaard Andersen (appointed by DF) Deputy: 1 Peter Sørensen (appointed by S) 2 Knud Munksgaard (appointed by RV) 3 Leif Hermann (appointed by SF) 4 Maria Temponeras (appointed by EL) 5 Iver Pedersen (appointed by V) 6 Anne Marie Søe Nørgaard (appointed by V) 7 Kaare Graversen (appointed by DF)].
ParlaMint-DK_20141118175057	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
