ParlaMint-DK_20141031101500	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101512	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101527	Maja Panduro has applied for leave from 4 November 2014 on account of pregnancy and childbirth. Pernille Vigsø Bagge has applied for leave from 4 November 2014 in accordance with Article 21 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 c. Ellen Trane Nørby has applied for leave from 7 November 2014 due to pregnancy and childbirth. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101611	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Radical Left in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Helge Vagn Jacobsen, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 3 November 2014, when Margrethe Vestager resigns his mandate. It should be noted that the first deputy has already taken up his duties as an ordinary member. I have also received the recommendation that the following be approved as temporary members of the Folketing as from 4 November 2014: 1. deputy for the Social Democratic Party in Østjyllands Storkreds, René Skau Björnsson, on the occasion of Maja Panduro's leave and 1st deputy for the Socialist People's Party in Nordjyllands Storkreds, Karl H. Bornhøft, on the occasion of Pernille Vigsø Bagge's leave. I have finally received the recommendation that the Second Deputy of the Left in South Jutland Storkreds, Bente Bendix, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 7 November 2014 on the occasion of Ellen Trane Nørby's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has already taken up his duties as an ordinary member. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101728	We are voting on the committee's recommendation and we can now vote on it. I shall conclude the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 101 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101801	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031101822	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 91 (V, S, DF, RV, EL and SF), against 11 (LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102010	The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102033	Thank you. Bill No. L 5 contains a proposal for the conclusion of a Protocol on the Double Taxation Agreement between Denmark and Ireland, concluded with and signed by the Irish on 22 July 2014. The agreement is an addition to the original double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ireland of 1965, which was amended in 1993 when a real double taxation agreement was concluded. Before that, the original 1965 agreement was intended only to ensure that Danes and Irish were taxable in both countries. By the 1993 Law, shipping companies and airlines remained exempt from the original agreement, but that is being changed now. The new agreement lays down rules on when Denmark may tax various forms of income received by a person resident in one State, i.e. the State of residence, from the other State, the source State. The main change is that people living in Denmark, but employed by Irish airlines and shipping companies, get their wages taxed in Denmark, unlike before when it was taxed in Ireland. In the past we have seen examples of how Danish employees in e.g. Ryan Air is using extremely low tax rates in Ireland. For example, the tax rate for low income groups is down to 20%, as opposed to double at home. With this bill they are now instead of taxpayers in Denmark, and we thus ensure that Danish employees in Irish companies are recruited on Danish terms, including tax conditions. In the Left, we are concerned with creating competition between market players, so that no one is better placed than competitors because of different special rules. In this way we will also get rid of the different tax structures that SKAT has highlighted, and Danish employees in the same industry are thus treated in the same way as their colleagues. Unequal conditions for Danish companies in relation to taxation abroad mean that Danish companies are unduly pressured on labour costs, which may lead to job losses. The addition to the double taxation agreement is therefore an indication that we are moving in a positive direction in relation to unequal competition between companies, and we welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102248	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102256	All I have to do is announce after Mr. Mads Rørvig has so brilliantly examined what the bill means that the Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102308	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102321	The reason for this proposal to amend the double taxation agreement is, of course, as the rapporteur of the Left has pointed out, that there has been a challenge with which, among other things, we have been faced. Ryanair has employees in Denmark who also have a place of work in Denmark but are employed by the Irish airline, thereby paying tax in Ireland. This has caused some problems in relation to the fact that it can outperform or at least put Danish SAS in a worse competitive situation. I think that this amendment to the double taxation agreement with Ireland is a positive one, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102410	Thank you. The Radical Left sees this proposal as a major battle against social dumping, also in view of what the previous rapporteurs have said in relation to the motivation of the proposal and the comparison with the fact that this is, of course, about us deciding whether we should accede to that agreement or reject it. And that is where I believe we should accede to it. As I said, this is about proper working and wage conditions for Danish employees and for those who work in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102512	In an increasingly globalised world, it is a challenge when capital and labour are given new opportunities to bypass national tax systems. Multinational companies can move employees or profits out of the country, on the grounds that they are resident in other countries, and despite the fact that the actual economic activity is taking place in Denmark. That is why international agreements are so important; agreements that can put an end to this type of tax evasion. Tax evasion erodes the basis for funding our welfare state and can at the same time contribute to social dumping and unemployment for Danish employees. The conclusion of the double taxation agreement with Ireland is an important step in the right direction, because it will generally help prevent tax evasion. This applies in particular to the fight against social dumping in the aviation sector. As my colleagues also mentioned, it has been mentioned in the media this week that the Irish low-cost airline Ryanair is setting up a number of new routes from Copenhagen airport. This may help to put an already pressured industry under further pressure. Here it is crucial that everyone plays according to the same rules. In this context, a double taxation agreement with Ireland could be one of the tools we can use to combat the dumping of wages and working conditions in the industry. At least fair competition must mean that all employees in Denmark are taxed uniformly. The agreement will stop Danish employees in Irish low-cost companies such as Ryanair from being taxed in Ireland with much lower taxes than at home. The SF generally supports Denmark's concluding agreements with other countries when it can help to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. That is why we also support the other double taxation agreements, which must be dealt with first today. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102659	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102708	It is clear that Enhedslisten has been fighting against tax fraud of one kind or another, illegally or legally, but against the scams that have been used for quite a number of years. We are doing the same here, which is why we naturally support the proposal. However, we would also like to be sure in committee that this closes the gaps well enough, because I fear that there are still far too good opportunities for large companies to speculate on using Ireland as a tax base within the European Union, which is that no tax or very little tax is paid, but of course we support the bill itself here. It can be said that it is a little strange that the Folketing should approve agreements made by the government. We can't even table amendments, can we? I would like to ask the Minister to answer that question. Could we table an amendment here in the Folketing which would make it sharper than what is at stake?
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102820	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031102827	Well, basically, this bill might look pretty uncomplicated. If you work for Ryanair in Denmark and live in Denmark, you also have to pay tax in Denmark. We are also inclined to support this if there was nothing else. But there's something else. There's the second thing we're dealing with is an international industry. Air carriers operate internationally, and Ryanair may as well have their flights from Hamburg as they can have them from Billund, for example. If the situation in Hamburg is better than the situation in Billund, it can be feared that Ryanair prefers to be based in Hamburg rather than in Billund. In August, Ryanair announced that Ryanair would close 14 out of 18 lines from Billund. It has been wondered whether the reason for this is that there has been this agreement on a double taxation agreement between Ireland and Denmark. There is no consultation answer with this kind of bill, and that is why we have not heard what, for example, was said. Billund Airport likes this double taxation agreement. Nor has it been heard what Ryanair thinks of it. That's why we're kind of on rocking ground. So the message here from the Liberal Alliance must be that, although we support in principle the payment of Danish tax in Denmark, we have some reservations when it comes to very mobile international companies, as we see it, for example. in the maritime industry, where we have a lower tax on seafarers based in Denmark than we have of everyone else, because otherwise we fear that shipping companies are flying out to other countries. Exactly the same fears can be felt here with airlines if the airlines also start operating from countries other than from Denmark. Does the fact that Ryanair has already closed 14 out of 18 routes from Billund this summer indicate that Ryanair is responding to the agreement between the Danish Government and the Irish Government? So we're a little hesitant about how we're gonna vote and then we're gonna figure it out in the legislative process of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103056	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103059	I think it's fair enough to wait for this. However, does the rapporteur not think that it would be a form of blackmail if we were not to enter into DBOs if we were not to demand that there should be fewer tax agreements because otherwise a company would move to Germany? Now we also have a DBO with Germany, and that is what the Treasury Minister has done on a regular basis in the Ministry of Taxation, namely trying to enter into DBOs with a large number of countries to avoid this race to the bottom by getting uniform guidelines for a number of countries around the world. New DBOs are constantly being made to make sure that there aren't these loopholes. It is not because I say that the DBOs solve everything, but I think the rapporteur must now correct me that the rapporteur sounds as if we in our tax systems should be subject to how private companies choose to move around.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103200	After all, we are living in reality, and we are all living in reality. That is why we can, for example: decide that we will not raise income taxes because we are afraid that the Danes will then start working less. It's not a threat to the Danes, but it's just a reality. It may also be a reality that an airline such as Ryanair shifts its flights from, for example: Billund to Hamburg, which already serves especially Jutes with flights out of Northern Europe, so that Billund finds it difficult to compete. In this context, it does not matter whether Denmark has a double taxation agreement with Germany. What matters is whether Germany has a similar double taxation agreement with Ireland, which we have now got with Ireland if it is implemented. If Germany's agreement with Ireland is more advantageous for example. Ryanair can then be feared that Ryanair will place all its flights in Hamburg instead of in Billund. Perhaps that is what has already happened. I don't know. But it's just very telling that shortly before we deal with this bill, and after the agreement between Ireland and Denmark is made, Ryanair exits 14 from 18 routes based on Billund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103310	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103312	But that's why we have these international discussions, both within the OECD and within the EU, about spreading the DBOs and getting a large number of common agreements in the field of taxation. Because in a globalised world, capital moves and companies move across borders very easily. That is why it is important that the same rules are spread to different places. But now the rapporteur referred to the level of taxation, whether it was raised or lowered. After all, the DBOs are about you either paying tax in one country or in the other country. That must be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103353	In the same way, it could be said that it would also be reasonable for sailors employed in Danish shipping companies to pay the same tax as Danes employed in all kinds of other places in Denmark. But there you have just taken stock of reality and said that if we tax them as hard as the Danes are taxed, there is nothing to prevent Danish shipping companies from being able to take their place in countries other than Denmark, because we are dealing with an international industry where it does not matter where they start. That is why we have a lower tax on seafarers based in Denmark than we do on everyone else, because in this area we take international competition into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103432	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103439	It is natural to pay taxes in the country where you are resident, regardless of the profession you work with. We can therefore support the government's proposal. I also think there is a point that this would be a distortion of competition for companies based in Denmark, for example. in the aviation industry, if employees of a company which happened to belong to Ireland in this case were allowed to be taxed lower than if they were employed in a company based in Denmark, where they would have to pay a higher tax. This, of course, means something to the level of wages, and it can mean a difference in competition. So we can support the principle of paying tax in the country where you are resident and can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103535	A brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103537	Just a brief question: does Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, that the employees of A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S must pay the same tax as all other Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103549	They do so in general, but there is a special scheme called DIS, which is for the seafarers who are sailing and which, moreover, applies to people of all nationalities sailing on Mærsk's ships. They pay a special low tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103609	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103623	First of all, thank you for the very broad endorsement of the bill, even if a single party, the Liberal Alliance, would like to sleep on it a little. Of course, we must be allowed to do so, that is clear. That is also why we have the opportunity to clarify matters in the committee's work. After all, the draft law differs from other legislative proposals in that it deals with an agreement that has already been concluded. That's it, too, sir. Frank Aaen mentioned in his speech. What Parliament has to decide is whether to accede to or reject the whole agreement with Ireland. I believe that this is basically a good agreement, which, among other things, is a good one. ensure that Denmark may tax persons resident in Denmark and working on aircraft in international traffic for Irish carriers. The agreement is such that, among other things, there is the agreement. has taken a step in the right direction in the fight against social dumping in aviation. The comments on the bill contain a detailed examination of the articles of the agreement and the consequences in relation to internal Danish law. However, if there are further matters to be clarified, I am of course happy to answer these questions during the committee's reading. I understand from previous tax ministers that there is usually no extensive debate on the accession of DBOs. In addition to the interesting debate, however, I just think that I should say 'and that is in relation to Mr Seligman's speech'. Ole Birk Olesen's attention to a particular named Irish airline, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said he had decided to stop flying some routes from Billund that it is also interesting that reported airline on Wednesday announced that 13 new routes would be opened from a Danish airport. In this respect, the content of this double taxation agreement has been known, so it must at least be assumed that it is not the case that this alone is seen as a challenge. And as has also been mentioned from other quarters, for example. by Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, this helps to ensure that there is a uniform treatment of airlines operating in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103846	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103850	It is true, as the Minister says, that Ryanair recently announced that new routes would be opened from Copenhagen Airport, and that is very welcome. However, Copenhagen Airport and Billund Airport serve different customers geographically, so I would like to know whether the Minister has any idea whether the discussions on the double taxation agreement concluded between the Irish Government and the Danish Government have affected Ryanair's decision to close 14 of 18 routes from Billund. On the contrary, can the Minister say that there is no connection at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031103933	Now, as you know, I am not the Minister for Transport, but I do know so much that there are airlines operating in such a way that they regularly move their activities between different airports and that it is also part of their business concept. One can understand to this extent that if the markets move, then there can also be airlines that have an interest in doing so. The airline reported has also been active at other Danish airports, without the choice of moving activities around, and without the fact that there has been a double taxation agreement in this style in the past. So, of course, it is very difficult for me to understand the thinking of the director of an airline in relation to what is being considered, but it is certainly not the case that I have information that it should have been something that has been raised, at least it is not something that I have seen on my desk or that there should have been a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104045	That's it? Sir. Mads Rørvig for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104048	Thank you. Ole Birk Olesen had an important point in his rapporteur's speech, and that was with regard to the process in relation to these double taxation agreements. Because when we stand here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we, as members of parliament, are a little on the brink. For it is, of course, the government that is negotiating a double taxation agreement, but it would be very nice to have a consultation phase. This is something that is used in other countries when it comes to double taxation agreements and which, in my view, would perhaps ensure a better quality in relation to the treatment of these double taxation agreements or at least a more enlightened parliament. So I would like to hear from the Minister for Taxation whether the conclusion of double taxation agreements will not be considered in advance of a consultation phase before the first reading in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104134	It is, of course, the case that there is a common practice for political negotiations to be held indoors, so to speak. This applies, of course, both here in the Folketing, but it also applies when two states negotiate with one another, and that is what happens when double taxation agreements are negotiated. It is therefore also the case, when we are working on double taxation agreements, that there is also a concern to take into account the other country with which we are negotiating. So I think that when we work the way we do, that's how common sense we work. However, I would also like to refer to the answer to question 2, which we have just sent to the committee, which deals with the status of the current work on double taxation agreements, and in which I am also suggesting that, as a tax minister, as a follow-up to the standing agreement we have with the Committee on Taxation, I offer the members of the committee an oral briefing on double taxation work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104245	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104247	I just have to say that in other countries it is possible to make a consultation phase so that it cannot be so controversial, but let us take the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104258	I am, of course, glad that Mr. Mads Rørvig, who is also the chairman of the committee, looks at this constructively. What I am concerned with first and foremost, and as previous governments, former tax ministers, have also been concerned about, is that we will achieve some results. It has to be said that when we look at the list of agreements that have at least been concluded and, as I have just said in the answer to question 2, the general part of the agreement has been answered by the Committee on Taxation that there are quite a few, among other things. Because at the moment there is a momentum in this area. I myself took part in a very interesting ceremony in Berlin last Wednesday, where we have just stepped up international cooperation in the fight against tax havens. So I think that there is an exciting moment at the moment, and that is where I think we should be careful not to put ourselves in the way of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104352	There is another brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104356	Although the SF supports the idea of the DBOs, it is clear that it is an important tool in ensuring fair taxation and avoiding tax fraud and social dumping, we believe that it is of course important how the DBOs get screwed up and what follow-up is on it. For while the intention of a DBO on the one hand is not to pay tax in two places, on the other hand you should not have a double non-taxation either. There we think there are problems with some of the DBOs, because an aggressive tax planning is simply being opened up which allows double non-taxation to take place. That is precisely what we want to avoid by concluding a large number of bilateral agreements. So will the Minister also take a critical look at the DBOs we already have in the future, so that we ensure that there is no double taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104506	There is, of course, an extremely interesting debate in this, which may be a little difficult to take in just a few minutes, but I would nevertheless like to say something about the work that is going on internationally at the moment. I myself took part in the signing of an early adopters' ceremony on Wednesday. I am very pleased that Denmark has shown itself to be one of the very proactive countries here. And when 50 countries are co-signators of the early adopters agreement, including some of those known to be relatively active tax havens, I think it is very interesting. All the work in the OECD to counteract BEPS, what is called base erosion and profit shifting, is extremely interesting, and we must, of course, engage on a global scale, alongside the fact that we are making double taxation agreements. I am quite sure that this is something that we can also return to several times, including with the Tax Committee, and if there are members of the Tax Committee who would like to know more about the work that is going on in the fight against tax havens and openness etc., then I would be very happy to make myself available for it, because it is extremely interesting work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104628	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104630	Well, I have also noted that the minister, even before he became a minister, had a focus on this, so of course I also have high expectations that Denmark will take the lead in working in this area when I know the Minister's views. It is true that there are a great many interesting things going on in the OECD, and a few years ago a 12-point plan was also put forward by the Commission in the European Union on what individual countries could do in that area, so there is really a stir. But we also need, as the Minister says, to bring it up on a global scale. Because there are plenty of countries that are not members of the OECD, and we also want the so-called developing countries to be included in the process of developing countries which are still acting as tax havens or developing countries which are actually being robbed of part of their tax revenues through various instruments. So I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that this is something that has been put very, very high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104730	I can confirm again that it is. It is also a job that I myself intend to engage very actively in, because of course I also see the momentum in it now. For many years in Denmark, we have chosen to be involved in the issue. We also chose to be so under previous governments, I must hurry to say, it is not only this government that has chosen to be proactive in relation to it, but also a number of world leaders, not only the American President, but also the British Prime Minister, have at the same time chosen to highlight the issue. So there is a momentum right now, in these years, when I think that we can really crack some of the hard codes in relation to just ensuring that there is really a uniform basis to work on in different countries, so what you would call a level playing field in English.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104824	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104842	The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031104900	As the President mentioned, we shall deal with L 6. Once again, we must obtain the consent of the Folketing in order for the government to accede to a protocol on a double taxation agreement. What is essential in this double taxation convention is primarily the protocol to which Luxembourg is party on the taxation of pensions paid from Denmark to persons residing in Luxembourg. The draft law contains a transitional rule, which is why it should be noted, for the sake of good order, that the draft law does not affect persons who are currently involved. resident in Luxembourg and receiving a pension from Denmark at the same time, but only persons who move to Luxembourg in the future. The previous protocol in this area has not clarified how the taxation of pensions paid from Denmark to pensioners in Luxembourg has been carried out, but it is now. The new agreement will enable the Danish State to tax pensions paid to pensioners in Luxembourg. In the past it has been the case that pensions have been paid tax-free, despite the fact that a tax credit has been granted in respect of payments on the grounds that a tax payment would be made. Thus, with the previous agreement, there has been a gap in Danish tax legislation which has ensured a disproportionate tax advantage for Danish pensioners resident in Luxembourg. That is why we in the Left are in favour of the bill, as it ensures that pensions paid are taxed under Danish law, namely the same legislation which guarantees a deduction for the payment of pensions. There is thus symmetry in taxation. Furthermore, we are pleased that pensions to already resident in Luxembourg will not be affected by the new rules, as this would be a major interference in the private economy of the people concerned at this time. Furthermore, we are not supposed to legislate with retroactive effect. For these reasons, the Left will support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105107	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105113	Thank you. The Social Democrats' tax rapporteur is unfortunately prevented from being here today, so I will therefore read out the rapporteur's speech. With the bill, we will obtain the consent of the Danish Parliament for the government to accede to a protocol amending the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Luxembourg. The aim of the proposal is to enable Denmark to tax pensions etc. paid from Denmark to a beneficiary in Luxembourg. Danish contributions to pension savings are deductible. However, it is on the condition that tax is paid when the pension is paid. Of course, this must also happen when the money is paid out to an account in other countries such as Luxembourg. Significant amounts of tax credit have been saved, and it is not reasonable to have different conditions from other Danes just because you move abroad. We Social Democrats think that it is an important principle that you pay Danish tax on your pension if you have benefited from Danish tax deductions. That is why we will also ensure Danish taxation when the pension is paid. However, I would like to emphasise that the draft law does not have retroactive effect. So it only works for future payments of private pensions. This means that Danish pensioners who have previously been exempt from Danish tax because they were resident in Luxembourg on 9 July 2013 when the Protocol was signed will still be exempted after the new amendment. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105243	Here we have another amendment to a double taxation agreement, in this case with Luxembourg. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that we have double taxation agreements, even when it comes to making a positive change, as is the case with this agreement. We think it is important, when you have the principle in Denmark, that you make large deductions for payments to pension savings, that you are then taxed in Denmark when you get the money paid out. At least there is no symmetry in tax legislation if you get large deductions for payments in Denmark and are low-taxed when you get the money paid abroad. You can make a calculation very quickly that shows that it is not a good business for Denmark. So I think it is a positive change that is being made, and it also means that this double taxation agreement with Luxembourg will be very similar to the one we are making with other countries and which follows the principle and recommendation of the OECD. At least I support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105347	Thank you, President. Like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, we in the Radical Left are also very much in favour of concluding more double taxation agreements or double taxation agreements in general, as is also stated. It also provides stability, it also provides coherence, and in many cases it is also very good for business when it comes to making trade agreements. In this case, there must be a link between the right to deduct pension payments and the subsequent tax on pension payments. Overall, Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105432	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105447	I would say that the SF specifically supports this bill, and I have also explained why we think the DBOs are important in principle, but also that it is important how they are precisely designed so as not to become double non-tax agreements. There it is both important how they are screwed together, but also how the subsequent follow-up takes place. After all, we have regularly discussed both Google and Apple and other very large companies, and it becomes almost a gastronomic experience when you start talking about different sandwiches and double agreements etc. So continuing to have a critical view of how to channel funds from different European countries to tax havens to avoid being taxed is also an important part of this. But there the Minister has also explained that he will go very, very actively into that work. We are pleased about this, and we are actually in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105552	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105600	I'm gonna have to fill in for mr. Frank Aaen, who is usually the tax rapporteur, but it is reported that he has other important tasks and everything else equal is probably a positive announcement, although that means you have to settle for me. The starting point here is that we think that this agreement, this law at least solves a huge challenge: the challenge of having been able to earn a pension in Denmark as an asset in the labour market, which has been able to deduct tax payments, and then we have been able to settle down in Luxembourg, which is not so far away, and we have not been able to pay tax when the money was paid out. It is quite obvious that this is unreasonable. It is, in fact, also unreasonable for those who now benefit from it, but, of course, I recognise that there is no possibility of implementing any legislation with retroactive effect. But that's the absurdity that this bill eliminates. And it is essential that in this particular case we have no doubt that it is a very good idea to have it adopted. In addition, it must of course be said, for the sake of good order, that, of course, double taxation agreements are in principle a good idea, but as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also said, it depends entirely on the specific content, whether that is the case when it is implemented. Therefore, we also tend to be zealous and thorough in assessing what lies in the agreements. Of course, we will be in this case too. So, although we have no doubt that we are positive, of course we will also follow up on this, just as it is important to ensure that afterwards there is a way that in fact means that neither individuals nor companies can have any chance of escaping the obligation they have to contribute to the community. But we are therefore in favour of this bill, which, as we can see, removes a really, very great injustice that has existed in relation to Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105755	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105800	The Liberal Alliance agrees with the comments made here by the rapporteur from the Liberal Group, and we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105821	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105826	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105837	Thank you for the broad endorsement of the bill. It's a good tradition to agree on these double taxation agreements. We have then been confirmed once again. I am very concerned that there must be a link between the right to deduct pension payments and the subsequent tax on pension payments. The proposal allows Denmark to tax private pensions paid from Denmark to a pensioner in Luxembourg. It is thus ensured that persons who have received tax credits for pension payments in Denmark will also be taxed when pension schemes are paid out, even if the persons have moved to Luxembourg. I shall not dwell on the details of the proposal. They are described in detail in the comments. If there are any questions, I will of course be happy to answer them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105928	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105940	Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031105953	We'll take one more in line. The draft law here, L 7, concerns a change in the double taxation agreement between Denmark and India from 1989. In the article of the Protocol on the exchange of information, it is amended so that the article now meets the latest international standards. This agreement thus ensures that our two countries have the best opportunities to provide each other with assistance in tax matters in the future. Particularly highlighted from this particular protocol is the fact that Danish and Indian officials with this change will have the right to participate in tax surveys in their respective countries. This opens up the possibility for Danish officials to pursue cross-border tax fraud more effectively than in the past. Furthermore, it should be noted that the agreement on the double taxation agreement between Denmark and India also takes effect between the Faroe Islands and India, and this will thus also be reflected in the Protocol. In the Left, we are concerned that people who try to evade tax or in one way or another escape their tax obligations can also be punished for it. That is why this agreement is also a step on the way to ensuring a continued firm hand against those who may speculate on tax evasion. Furthermore, the agreement is also a good example of Denmark and India once again being able to conclude agreements for the benefit of the common economic interests of our two countries. It is no secret that the case of Niels Holck cooled the relationship between Denmark and India, and we can therefore welcome the fact that we in Parliament are discussing a proposal to accede to this protocol. Then I would say that we in the Left are looking forward to a good committee procedure and can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110154	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110159	Thank you. All I have to say is that the Socialists can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110205	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. I think we're gonna make it quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110217	As mentioned in the previous proposal, we in the Danish People's Party support the conclusion of double taxation agreements, both in order to avoid people getting caught up in the fact that they are going to pay tax twice, but also in order to prevent people from paying tax altogether. So we usually support these proposals. There are, however, some things that I have overwhelmed by this proposal and that I can at least get answers from the tax minister when he comes to the floor later or get answers to in committee work. Among other things, it says: In particular, the proposal points out that the agreement also allows officials from one country to participate in tax surveys in the other country. I find this a bit exciting to dive into, because it is certainly not something I have been aware of in the past in a double taxation agreement, that is to say that officials from other countries are suddenly given the power to enter and control Danish nationals or Danish companies. I have not been able to read more in the proposal about the framework and conditions under which these officials will operate in Denmark. For example, they must: with on-the-spot checks? Isn't that the kind of stuff you get into? I do not think that this sounds particularly positive, and it is not something that we can support as a starting point. I can then understand it so far that it appears to be part of the OECD standard for 2010, which is a new standard that has started to be used. It is not something I have come across in the past, so I think that this is something we have to deal with as a parliament, because it must be assumed that it is something that may be coming forward on a regular basis, that is to say whether it should also be normal practice to say that officials from other countries should have the power to carry out investigations on Danish soil. At least I think we should be careful just to give a blue stamp. This also applies to the part that you have to exchange any information you may need... as the Danish tax administration doesn't have and doesn't need. Can one now be required to go out and collect and call at the door of companies and say that they have to provide information, even if you do not actually need this information as a Danish authority? I think it raises some questions of legal certainty in principle, which we need to examine in committee. Until we have clarified them, I cannot decide whether the Danish People's Party can ultimately support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110430	Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110435	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110449	SF can also support the bill, but I would just like to make a comment to the rapporteur of the DF, because if he is also listening now, I can tell him that it is common practice for officials from different countries to take part in such studies here. If it were a completely new practice, I would say that there was reason to discuss it, because then it would be a break, but that is quite common practice, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær that officials from countries which have bilateral agreements participate in the event of any disagreements or disagreements on tax practices or the way in which they are conducted. So there is nothing new about this, and that is why I do not think it should be a subject we should be discussing, as it is now customary. SF is quite confident that this is the way it works. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110551	There is no doubt that in the world in which we live, it is very important for the various states to cooperate to ensure that the rules that exist in the countries concerned are respected and the taxes that companies and individuals have to pay in these countries under the rules chosen in those countries are paid. That is why I think it makes sense to have such cross-border cooperation and therefore to be able to help each other. The second essential element is, of course, to ensure that, moreover, the tax rules are designed in such a way that there is no possibility of tax evasion, that there is no possibility of moving tax unduly elsewhere where tax evasion can be made cheaper. And, of course, it is also true that you have to make sure that there is no one who is going to pay tax on the same money in two places; that is, of course, also an element in it. We think it seems that this draft law is in every way a sensible implementation of those principles, and that is why we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110656	The Liberal Alliance supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110700	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110711	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110715	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110723	Thank you, too, for the broad endorsement of the draft law. There was one question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær on the OECD standards, and of course we should like to explain the OECD standards, which are basically standards that we hope as many countries as possible will follow, because they provide the necessary transparency, which we have also talked about in the discussion of one of the previous legislative proposals today, in other words, that we have the opportunity to look at each other in the maps precisely to ensure that all countries work according to uniform principles. Of course, it is also the case that the administration of office in India, for example, is of course the responsibility of Indian officials, but that through what is the OECD standard we will have the opportunity to actively follow that and the correspondingly the other way around. But, of course, it is very important for us to follow these OECD standards. I would very much like to make sure that we get a detailed account of the great complex I do not think, after all, that my speaking time today will allow us to go through all that. But we must ensure that we come to the committee. Incidentally, there is only one thing to say: with the legislative proposal we have dealt with, yes, it is, in particular, the link with international work that is relevant, precisely that of creating a better framework for combating tax fraud and tax evasion. On a global level, I do not hide the fact that this is a small contribution, but it is also the case that small steps are their right. I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110912	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110925	The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031110940	We'll grab one more. This bill concerns the conclusion of a double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ghana, as Denmark has not previously had one. The double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ghana must be seen in the light of a desire for greater trade and openness between our two economies, while at the same time ensuring greater control over the fiscal challenges inherent in the relationship. Then we cannot help but welcome the fact that the agreement may also indicate that the economy in some parts of Africa is heading in the right direction. For companies, the bill contains specified proposals for companies established in Denmark with subsidiaries in Ghana and vice versa, as well as the source State's tax powers vis-à-vis a resident State. As in the case of L 6, which updated the rules on pension taxation, this agreement also contains a rule on public benefits, including social pensions, civil servants' pensions and private Danish pensions paid with deduction. These pensions will be taxed in accordance with Danish tax rules, as is the case with L 6. Furthermore, the double taxation agreement also contains, as the wording of the agreement says, an agreement not to double tax income for a subsidiary in Ghana with a parent company in Denmark. This is done on the basis of the so-called credit method, which ensures that the tax on income is deducted from the tax already paid by the subsidiary in Ghana. Much trouble is thus avoided for Danish companies resident in Ghana when the new double taxation agreement provides for a clear legal basis only to pay tax on income on a country's tax rules. In the Left, we are positive about actions that can create better conditions for our companies with subsidiaries around the world. Double taxation agreements that we are discussing today help to make the world in which we live a more coherent world. Economic freedom and the possibility of making agreements across borders to the benefit of business and people in the respective countries we in the Left always welcome. As with the other proposals for double taxation, we must state that we are also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111209	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111215	As with the previous double taxation agreements, I should also like to say that the Social Democrats support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111223	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111228	I also have to tell you that the Danish People's Party can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111233	Thank you. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111240	Radical Left can also sensationally announce that the party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111246	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111257	I have said at first reading of the other DBOs we have discussed today that SF supports double taxation agreements as a starting point, but I would like to point out the Ghana agreement where I think there are a number of problems. There is a particular issue with regard to the agreements we enter into with the developing countries, and I would therefore like us to clarify in the further examination of this draft law what the consequences of this agreement will have for Ghana and will have in the future, because it will be problematic if the agreement helps to hamper growth and development opportunities in Ghana. In the SF, we believe, in principle, that double taxation agreements are often a step forward in taxing capital and labour in a globalised economy, which is why we are also inclined to support the bill, but it is too early to say. We have a number of very specific questions which we would like to put through the committee and discuss further in committee, a number of specific questions in relation to this agreement, where we are uncertain about its importance to Ghana, and that is why I shall wait for further consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111423	In this case, the Enhedslisten can fully endorse the comments made by the SF rapporteur. We agree that when it comes to agreements with developing countries, there may well be some very special circumstances that make it necessary for us here in Denmark to be very thorough and careful in the treatment to ensure that there will be no unintended negative effects in the developing country concerned. That is why, like the SF, we will go into the committee's work thoroughly, and we hope, of course, that we can clarify things in such a way that we can vote in favour of the legislative proposal at the end, but it is therefore too early to answer clearly now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Laigaard, rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111507	I would like to say briefly that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111513	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111524	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111526	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111544	The reason why there is a little unrest in the Chamber is because we have had a debutante on the platform. No, we haven't? Okay, we were a little unsure whether it was a debut or not a debut. I just got a clear signal from down there that that wasn't the case. Then I shall not make comments about it. Of course, on this draft law, I have heard the comments that have fallen from the SF rapporteur and from the Enhedslisten rapporteur. I also understand that the questions you have are some that follow in writing, and I will of course look forward to answering them, so that both the SF's and Enhedslisten's rapporteur can feel safe in relation to the thorough work that has been done in connection with the present double taxation agreement with Ghana. Apart from that, of course, I would like to say in general terms that I am pleased with the support which, moreover, is given to the proposal, which the tradition offers. It is just now that more has been done in the Chamber during the debate on this proposal than has been said. I shall not dwell on the individual provisions of the double taxation agreement. They are described in detail in the comments and, of course, we are answering all the questions that may be raised during the committee procedure, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111712	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that this proposal should also be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111723	The debate is open. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031111738	You have to pay the tax, you have to pay no more and no less. That is why there is, of course, a common task in ensuring that we have a tax system that citizens and businesses can easily understand and use, so that the tax that we have adopted in here is paid. SKAT is constantly investigating how it is going to pay the tax, as the law says, and in a number of areas it is going quite well, while in other areas there is room for improvement. And it is often the case that it is not necessarily because people have the great ambition to cheat, but that it may be because of lack of knowledge of the rules and lack of knowledge that things do not go entirely according to the book. And the more that can be reported automatically, the more things that are printed on our tax return, the easier it is for us to comply with the law. This proposal is intended to ensure that tax payments are more orderly. This stems from the tax agreement that we of the Left, together with the Conservatives, entered into with the government in 2012, where ensuring a better fairness contributes to the region of 1 billion. kr. It was therefore only by ensuring that the rules were better observed. The proposal here contains some concrete steps in relation to reporting accounting figures for companies when they submit their tax returns in advance. That sounds like a very modest measure, but we are still talking about a very good financing contribution of around 100 million. kr. with that proposal alone. That is why it is quite reasonable that we should listen to the experience that is being done and find out where we can do things a little better so that the money we have now decided on is also in the box. So I do not think I can get upset by the concrete examples and improvements to the proposal. On the contrary, it makes very good sense for the initiative to be taken to ensure that the tax rules are, of course, respected. However, there is one thing I have to crack down on, because the 2012 tax agreement meant that we should have approx. 1 billion kr. extra in the box through better care. There are many things that have been done, and this is the last part of what is quite a replacement for some of the other proposals that were on the table but which have subsequently proved impossible to implement. Then the tax minister has made these proposals instead and, as I said, they seem quite reasonable. However, I am a little aware of what the economy is saying, because what was outstanding because it could not be implemented, compared to what the government is bringing in, actually amounts to 25 million. kr. more in the box than expected. As I have said, it is not because we can be against making sure that companies pay the VAT; it is not the case that the things that make sure the money comes into the checkout can be turned down, but I think it would be quite fair, and it is also my expectation that the tax minister will have a discussion with the Left and the Conservatives on how the government will now manage to get a little more money in the box than envisaged in 2012. That is, of course, fine, because it means that what is called the tax gap is the difference between what should be in the box and what should be in the box. But it also gives the political room for manoeuvre that there are, in fact, an extra 25 million. kr. I look forward to discussing with the Minister of Taxation how we can ensure that the calculation fits and that the extra money that comes into the box of this proposal can be used to ease other taxes and taxes elsewhere in the tax system. In those words, we in the Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112213	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Simon Kollerup as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112220	I shall start by disappointing the Folketing that I am the dubious replacement for Mrs Astrid Krag, who is the Social Democrats' tax rapporteur, and who is unfortunately prevented from being here today. That is why I have to read the rapporteur's speech. Luckily, most Danes pay their taxes without a knuckle. They do so because they know that it goes to common welfare, to common schools, infrastructure, to the care of our elderly and to free hospital services. It is therefore only fair that everyone should contribute to the welfare society that they themselves enjoy every day. Unfortunately, there is not always proper taxation, and that is why this legislative proposal will help to ensure correct taxation. It is both an advantage for Danish taxpayers who benefit from the money that actually belongs to all of us, and it is fortunate that it also helps to make it easier for individual companies. With the bill, we will obtain the consent of the Danish Parliament for the government to amend the VAT law, the tax control law and the equation law. First of all, the purpose of the draft law is to ensure that self-employed persons disclose VAT due or receivable when submitting their tax returns. It is considered that it will create a greater focus on getting VAT correctly declared to SKAT and therefore also a greater focus on correct payment. This will mean that more self-employed workers will in future report VAT in accordance with the legislation. Secondly, we want to extend the reporting obligation for a number of financial products. This will mean that in future there will be reporting obligations for accounts, certificates of deposit and pension schemes abroad, the purchase and sale of shares not admitted to trading on the regulated market, and also for companies that buy back their own shares. The aim of enlargement is to standardise the rules governing these financial products. Both amendments aim to ensure that we can implement the tax reform that we entered into with the SF, the Left and the Conservatives in June 2012. It is essential for a well-functioning welfare society that citizens and companies pay exactly the tax they should pay no more or less. This bill will help to ensure that, and that is why the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112438	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112445	After all, this bill is part of the 2012 tax reform that Dansk Folkeparti was not part of, but that is why you might think that there are positive elements in it. And that is why I can already reveal that we in the Danish People's Party support this bill, which is, of course, about tighter rules for control and increased compliance. After all, the need has arisen because one can see in the compliance studies carried out in SKAT that there are often differences between companies' book value added tax and what companies have actually indicated in VAT to SKAT. Some have so indicated too much and others too little, but the purpose is, after all, I think we are quite agreed on that in here in the Danish Parliament that people will of course have to pay the tax they have to pay, and neither a penny too much nor a penny too little. May I also say that when it comes to financing tax cuts or other things, it is, in fact, better to get people and businesses to pay the tax they have to pay than it is to introduce new taxes and taxes. In any case, I clearly prefer the first: first of all, to get people to pay the taxes they have to pay. I am not going to explain all the individual measures in the proposal, which I think both the rapporteur of the Left and the Social Democrat rapporteur have explained very well, but just mention that I have also noted that there is virtually only a positive response to this proposal. It also does, I believe, that there is broad support both in the business world and here in the Folketing. That's why we in the Danish People's Party can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112618	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112626	Thank you. This bill has threads back to the tax reform agreement in 2012 and also a very good agreement, which helped to ensure better framework conditions for companies, but also to ensure that it was better worth working. So far as the tax reform agreement is concerned. It can be said that when I say that it has threads back to 2012, it is about this bill being a follow-up to that agreement and also helping to finance a smaller part of the 2012 tax reform agreement. This bill is about compliance, that is. rule compliance, that is to say to ensure that it happens to a greater extent. One might say that when you look at the consultation answers, it also gives the impression that there is a fairly positive approach to it, and this also shows that in large parts of the business sector, i.e. as the business sector is most, you are also very concerned about regulatory compliance and that things work in a proper way. So, overall, the Radical Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112755	Of course, it is important that everyone pays the tax they have to pay, no more and no less, as my Left colleague also said. That is why we also support the fact that more self-employed people are correctly identified with VAT, regardless of the reason why it is not correctly indicated in certain cases. At the same time, we consider it reasonable that the reporting obligation on a number of financial products should be extended and, on a number of points, aligned. I also note that the draft law together provides revenue that will cover the lack of revenue from the financing elements of the 2012 tax reform, which SF was also part of. The SF may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031112842	I think the history of this bill is a little bit interesting. The agreement on tax reliefs to the economy, which was reached at the time, also contained the very, very surprising wording that action should be taken to ensure that private operators were able to deduct private expenditure from their business accounts. This was, of course, the reaction of a large number of business organisations, a violent attack and attack. As far as I am concerned, I now think it sounded quite normal and normal and reasonable, so that, of course, you cannot deduct expenses that you have for your private consumption from your company's tax accounts; I think that should be quite fundamental and obvious. I remember back from a distant past, where I myself was self-employed, that that opportunity existed, but it was after all when it was almost chaos and Armageddon, and in addition it was somewhere far out in Jutland. However, in the light of the many widespread protests and the outbursts of rage which struck a number of business organisations, it turned out that it was completely impossible to ensure that private purchases could not be deducted from the tax accounts of their company. However, I find this interesting and remarkable, i.e. it turned out to be inappropriate and almost impossible. This certainly shows that the Danish tax administration and the Danish tax politicians are not just so characterised by incredibly zealousness when it comes to making sure that they receive tax revenue, because you can still withdraw these private purchases to a certain extent. Fortunately, something else was found which could be done and which could give the amount that was needed in relation to the tax reductions that were decided upon to give to the business community; it was found that it would be a good idea to focus more on a correct VAT statement for SKAT and thus a more correct payment of VAT to SKAT. In other words, in order to focus on the fact that companies should give a correct VAT to SKAT and pay the right amount, it was therefore necessary to carry out a tax reform in which tax cuts were made to business. In addition, it was also necessary to find out that it was not possible to intervene against someone who, if they owned a company, could deduct private purchases from the company's accounts, and then it was a good idea to ensure that this was correct. Let me conclude by revealing that Enhedslisten fully agrees that it is a good idea that the surrender of VAT to SKAT is going on properly and that the correct amounts are being paid and we can therefore vote in favour of this bill. What just puzzles us is that so much time had to be taken and that so many detours had to be taken to arrive at the fairly obvious conclusion that it is a very good idea to make sure that the abandonments that are coming are correct. But Enhedslisten is positive about the bill. We are pleased that there is much evidence that there are still a few gaps left in the Danish tax system that can be used, which we can work to find, get uncovered, get filled out, so that we can get a fairer tax payment in Denmark and perhaps also a revenue that can be used for good welfare measures. It's nice to be constantly confirmed that there's probably still one small hole left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113206	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113218	Thank you. I have been allowed to present the views of the Liberal Alliance on this bill, which, of course, intends to have a more correct VAT charged on self-employed people by obliging them to provide accounting information on VAT in their tax returns. It is estimated that it will be able to generate revenue of approx. 115 million kr. to the Treasury and it forms part of the financing of the latest 2012 tax reform, which fortunately increases the employment allowance and thus makes it more attractive to move from public support to employment in Denmark. The draft law also intends to extend the reporting obligation on a number of financial products, and it will also help to finance the 2012 tax reform here with an amount of 70 million. kr. Although the Liberal Alliance was not included in the 2012 tax reform agreement because we were opposed to some of the financing elements, we naturally wholeheartedly support the increase in the employment allowance, and the funding elements implemented by the current legislative proposal are not in any way against it either. In addition, we have also noted that in the hearings neither accountants, tax lawyers nor self-employed trade associations have made any significant objections to this bill. So I have to report that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113337	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113342	We are paying too high taxes in Denmark, but if we now have the rules that we have adopted together, then of course we have to pay the tax and the taxes and the VAT that we have agreed on. That is why we can support the proposal. It was as part of the tax reform that we made the growth agreement in 2012 that had reduced taxes and charges for both companies and individuals and provided sensible incentives for working to pay off. So, the fact that you have better opportunities to pay the VAT you have to pay at the right time, of course, we can support the Conservative People's Party. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113431	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the tax minister has the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113445	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law. As mentioned above, the draft law is part of the follow-up to the 2012 tax reform agreement and the aim of the proposal is to create a greater degree of regulatory compliance and thus to finance part of the reliefs in tax reform aimed at creating new growth and more jobs. The proposal for the provision of accounting information on VAT in connection with the tax return aims to reduce the VAT differential of the self-employed, and the proposal allows SKAT to automatically compare the trader's data on VAT in the tax return with the trader's VAT return and specifically to advise the trader that too much or too little VAT may be indicated. Such a positive approach to economic operators can, on the one hand, help to guide and legalise the individual in the correct way and, on the other hand, is a way of getting more correctness, and a slightly larger revenue in the box is a fine way of getting things into a higher unity and balance. The draft law also contains a number of initiatives for further reporting obligations on financial products. These initiatives have been discussed with the financial sector, including with a view to minimising the burden on business. The aim of the proposals is to increase complacency and thus reduce the tax gap in relation to financial products. I have, of course, noted that there has been a wish, among other things. on behalf of the Left rapporteur, on how should we formulate it? a cup of coffee in the Ministry. And it is clear that, in addition to the governing parties, the conciliation parties that are involved will be invited, that is. Left, Conservative and SF. It is clear that I would, of course, like to take a closer look at the issues raised. However, I think it is worth mentioning that it is not the case that the revenue effects of the initiatives in the tax agreement have been recalculated. An overall recalculation of the whole agreement could thus show that, instead, it was under-financing in a lasting way. Moreover, this would be contrary to normal practice, as any additional or minor revenue is handled in the ongoing organisation of financial policy. So even though it has also been mentioned that there are some elements of lasting additional revenue in the calculations, there is still some under-financing in 2014 of approx. 150 million kr. and in 2015 of approx. 40 million kr. So there is no money that can be used to finance other initiatives. But, of course, we will also come back to that in the closer talk that we must have, so that everyone agrees with the framework that is now there. I would also like to recognise those parties which have not been included in the agreement and which have also indicated that they will vote in favour. I think that is a good thing and, of course, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's remarks that it is actually the case that the hearings are quite positive and the words which Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær associated with this, I fully agree. I am naturally looking forward to the committee's reading in relation to the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031113832	I will first sign for the Minister to take a discussion, a cup of coffee, with the parties to the 2012 tax agreement. That is what the Minister is saying about the calculations that make me speak, because I am in favour of the fact that when you make a tax agreement and a large number of elements are touched on, it is difficult to come 2 years later and ask: how exactly did it go when we increased the employment allowance or when we pushed the limit on when the Danes were going to pay top tax? It is difficult to look at the total amount of income tax, which exactly originates from one or the other. That is where we have to rely on the calculations that lie behind it, and then we go with it. I agree that if the effect is greater or less, then it will break through the Finance Act, and then it is the pleasure and privilege of the current government at all times to either rejoice at the fact that more has come or to regret the fact that a little less has come. But when we adopt something, we have to deal with the figures, and here we have a legislative proposal which, on the calculations of what we expect to get in, amounts to 25 million. kr. more than what had been agreed. That is why I believe that this differs significantly from what has happened with income from a tax in relation to employment allowances and other things. I can understand the Minister's talk about those calculations. We cannot normally do that, but it is not normal here either, and here we are dealing with a specific legislative initiative in which the Minister himself writes that there is an additional revenue of 25 million. kr. in relation to what was agreed in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114015-2	As I said, I would very much like to discuss this in more detail, including with the conciliation parties, but I still remind you that in 2014 there was a small revenue of 150 million. kr., and that in 2015 there will be less revenue of 40 million. kr. It must of course be taken into account here. However, I look forward to discussing this with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114035	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114057	The debate is open. First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114123	Thank you. Back in 2012, we dealt with the legislative proposal that originally started the free municipality attempt, and there we in the Left were of course in favour of it, because it is also an idea that I think the President will sign on to is the grow in the front garden of the Left. That is why, of course, we were positive at that time, just as we are positive today when it comes to extending the same system. I will just outline it for those who may not know it I think most in the Chamber know it, but it might be that there are a few others who also follow it. It is a question of allowing nine selected municipalities, which are scattered geographically and in relation to size etc., to let go of the reins a little, not necessarily the economic ones, but more the other rules, which are, as it were, centrally adopted here in the Folketing, and which have to manage the municipalities in some direction. We have said with the free municipality attempt that here there is a chance that you can test some of the things before you roll it out or release it as a more general legislation in the other 89 municipalities, to see if it will work. As I said, we think this is a very good idea. However, we left then, and do so now too, there has to be a bit of wormwood in the cup, a bit of a concern, in relation to the fact that there has been criticism from the municipalities that there has been little enough rejection in relation to the various projects that have then been applied for. But we don't have to tire each other out with that now. It was just to note that we also wanted to have a positive atmosphere in the free municipalities. After all, there are people who work with it here on a daily basis at both political and administrative levels, and it should not be true in a sense that nothing can be done. So I think we should draw our attention to this together and also work on it in committee. Otherwise, however, it is generally a very fine arrangement that offers the opportunities that need to be offered. Here too, I would like to conclude by saying that we on the Left would also like to see some results coming up soon. And, of course, I would also like to hear from the Minister when we get there, perhaps also during the work of the committee, about when we expect from the Ministry and the Minister that we will then be able to do something more general, that is to say relax some rules or change some rules, so that the experience we are already beginning to gain can also start to work out in the real world. With those comments, however, the Left supports the proposal. And I look into the Chamber and see that the Conservative rapporteur is not here, so I have promised to say on behalf of the Conservatives that they will also support the proposal, however, with the objections they raised in the debate back in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114347	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and we shall now turn to the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114356	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here intends to extend the period for the free municipalities' attempts launched in 2012 so that they can continue until mid-2017. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that any attempts which may later lead to changes in the law and spread to several municipalities are not unduly disrupted. The continuation of the experiments will mean that the experiments can continue while the free municipalities themselves evaluate the experiments, and when the government and the Folketing then have to decide subsequently which experiments will lead to legislative changes. The 18-month extension may seem like a long extension, but within the 18-month period there will be both an evaluation and a political treatment which will eventually have to be followed up by legislation. That's why we think this time frame is necessary. The continuation of the experiments will result in less bureaucracy, it will also result in a more flexible transition from the attempts that will result in legislative changes, and it is precisely less bureaucracy in the municipalities that is one of the intentions behind the very concept of free municipalities. By creating a more flexible transition, you avoid creating abrupt slowing downs and winding up attempts so as to have to recreate them afterwards and get them to run. The draft law supports the intentions and opportunities underlying the creation of the free community attempt, namely to increase local selfgovernment; to ensure an improvement in municipal service to citizens; to support better resource use; and to increase the efficiency of the municipalities' task solution. The Socialists can therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114541	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114549	It is no secret that the Danish People's Party has throughout been warm advocates of the free municipalities and free municipalities, and perhaps it was also the Danish People's Party that first got the idea. In any case, we are pleased that the experiments in the nine municipalities have been well launched, and we can also support the proposal today to extend the period by 18 months, so that, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, the experiments are not interrupted while evaluating, so that the experiments that will be continued can be restarted. But I also think we can have the comment today that, when the spring 2016 trials are evaluated and the evaluation shows that there are trials that you do not feel useful or relevant to continue working on, then you can also stop those trials before reaching the summer 2017 • if it turns out that you do not want to continue individual specific trials. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party supports the extension of the period, and we also look forward to something useful afterwards coming out in all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114658	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114709	Thank you. Since 1 January 2012, nine municipalities have participated in the free municipality experiment, which is currently under way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The free municipality experiment is part of the economic agreement with KL from 2015. The aim of the original law is to find new ways to streamline and debureaucratise by focusing on trust, professionalism and management in the municipalities, thus focusing more on results rather than process requirements. The results should be seen by improving the quality of public services as well as better service for the citizen. The deadline for initiating experiments in the free municipality scheme was 31 December 2013. This means that no new experiments can be started right now. It has been agreed that the scheme will be evaluated ex post and that a thorough evaluation will contribute to a solid decision-making basis when deciding which of these experimental experiences and results will be translated into general action for all municipalities. Bill L 12 therefore proposes to extend the scheme further until 30 June 2017, so that good trials, which may have to be translated into general measures for all municipalities, can be evaluated within the period and the cross-cutting collection, which must also take place, can be achieved. In addition, it will ensure a continuous process in which good workable solutions can continue until they have been legislatively implemented. Since we do not want new innovative solutions in the public sector's challenges, in the light of the experiments in the nine free municipalities, to be unduly interrupted during the evaluation period, the Radical Left fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114850	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I think I remember it started in 2012, but okay. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031114906	Unfortunately, the SF's municipal rapporteur is prevented from attending today's meeting, and that is why I have been asked to take over the matter and give SF's view on L 12. Of course, SF gives its wholehearted support to the continuation of the free municipalities attempts, this time until 2017. This is because we both have a clear desire to strengthen local self-government and the communal spirit of activity, but also because the thoughts behind the free-community attempt are well-sounding with our basic ideas of creating greater confidence in local government, the employees and the citizens, but also in order to strengthen professionalism and the municipal task solution. And if those thoughts and developments are to have air under our wings, then it is absolutely necessary that we both protect municipal autonomy and that we also continue to have a number of municipal laboratories that can put different ships in the lake. In fact, we would like to extend the experiments even further. So a clear yes from the SF's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115002	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and it is again Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115013	Like our tax rapporteur, our municipal rapporteur is also engaged in important discussions, and that is of course a good thing, and it is good that I can have the opportunity to unfold in a number of different matters. In relation to this bill, I want to say that Enhedslisten is positive. We can vote in favour of this extension. There is no reason to hide the fact that when these experimental schemes were adopted, there were some of the experiments that we thought were more sensible than others, some we were glad about, others we were less happy about, and some we were not at all happy about. However, at a time when they have been initiated and when there is then a proposal to extend them both to ensure a proper evaluation and to ensure that some of the experiments may slip over to being an ordinary part of the operation, it doesn't make much sense to go in and do such a selection, compared to what we think is good or bad. So we're gonna take a stand on this in general, and we can support this bill there. I would also add that my awareness that there may be a good need to debureaucratise the state regulation of the municipalities may not have diminished in the last year. There are many places in the municipalities where the reaction to a proposal for de-bureaucratisation by the state is a little frightened because it is said that the money will take, it is a lot more difficult when it comes to making the legislative changes that make things simpler. But this is a completely different discussion, so I just have to say that the Enhedslisten supports the bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115142	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115153	Thank you for the floor. In the Liberal Alliance, we are, of course, warm advocates of local self-government, and we also believe that a strong expansion of the freedom of the municipalities to govern themselves should be at the top of the agenda. But of course it also needs to be combined with an equally strong extension of the responsibilities of the municipalities in terms of living with the consequences of their own decisions and this could well be the way to a slightly better operation of the municipal sector here in Denmark. We note that the other parties in the Folketing are, in general terms, not particularly happy with local government; they would rather decide time and time again in detail how the municipalities should be run, and we are a little sad about that. But after all, we are pleased that at least these free municipalities have been set up, which this bill will then prolong. After all, attempts to increase local selfgovernment are better than nothing, even if the experiment is limited in time, and even if the possibility of being free municipalities is only a few municipalities. The draft law extends the free communal experiment by 11⁄2 years so that it will be possible to follow all the tests to the end, instead of stopping them in the middle of the trial process. That is why, despite our comments, we in the Liberal Alliance support this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115306	Thank you to all the rapporteurs, and then I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115320	Well, thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their strong support for the proposal, and I would like to sign for that. The point of the proposal is therefore to ensure a flexible and simple system for free municipalities, and I look forward, as several rapporteurs also mentioned, of course to discussing the results of the many attempts and, above all, to discuss how we should follow up. But right now it is time to show a little patience, because the experiments are taking place, and until then I am pleased that the draft law will provide the free municipalities with good conditions for a flexible and unbureaucratic opportunity to continue the experiments until there is a political opinion on the attempts that give rise to changed rules for all 98 municipalities, as the rapporteur of the Left said. This also allows us to have a reasonable time to look carefully at the evaluations of individual experiments by free municipalities. The great work of free municipalities has earned that. I myself visited Vejle Municipality earlier this week, where you have used your free municipality status to strengthen your integration efforts. It looked very promising, but it is clear that the good thing about the free community experiment is that we have some experience that we can then consider spreading to all municipalities. I look forward, of course, to the committee's reading and am available to answer the questions that are there. I welcome the fact that there is great support for free municipalities and for their ability to continue the good work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115440	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141031115502	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 4 November 2014, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
