ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u1	One newly elected senator. 4th, including Witchest. "Bergthór Ólason, was absent at a assembly meeting when his campaign was approved. I'd like to welcome him to his office and council. He will now sign a pledge to the Constitution as stated in Article 2. Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u2	Bergþór Ólason has now signed the title and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u3	The president would like to state that there is an agreement between the presidents and the council groups that a meeting meeting can last longer than at the end of the day. 20 if necessary. Then there is an agreement on the arrangement of the budget, as shown in Article 3. Sixty-seven. Congress, that general discussions will be in a certain way followed by financial and economic debates. The minister has up to 15 minutes in advance, then one spokesman from each body has ten minutes, and the other members have five minutes each. The right to counter will be cleared after the financial secretary's lead speech so that spokes from the councils who would like to receive a full two-minute counterclockwise. Thereafter, the discussion will be carried out by a traditional opposite course. The president has stressed that ministers will be present for the discussion and can respond to comments or give an answer after an incident with a reply or a five - minute talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u4	V.E.G. I hereby recommend a bill for the budget of 2018, the 1st case of a Council of 148th. As everyone knows, this bill is presented in a somewhat unusual situation, and it is very late here in the winter. These are situations that we have not been able to handle. I have to say, considering the circumstances, bringing down a bill to the council has been some achievement from the management system. I'm not going to give credit to the politicians who have been there but, rather, to the people who work in the government. Clearly, if budgets have not been submitted and approved for years, legal sources will fail to ensure continuation and harmony in the activities of the State. Therefore, it is important that the Council deal with the bill effectively during the few remaining days of the year. I expect a good cooperation with members of Congress, both government and government, in the days to come. We will provide all information as far as we can go, to support us in the best political treatment. A budget bill for 2018 reflects the first emphasis on a new government, which aims to benefit the world's entirety from the upcoming times that have been here for the past few years and is predicted to continue. Thus we can rely on future social stability, quality of life, and prosperity. It responds to a call to finance more important community services than also infrastructure. At the same time, the products of the government's budget are expected to be good, reflecting the same responsibility and firmness and that the state's funds will have to be brought back when economic growth is measured year after year. This will continue to reduce the debt of state funds in 2018. Despite the many evidences that Iceland has reached its top economic flux, the prospects continue to rise well for many years. In fact, external circumstances have been practical for many years. It doesn't matter whether we look at the state of the fish stocks, how the groundwork roads in the country stand or business churches on export markets. In most respects, there is a good look for economics in Iceland. The economic progress that has taken place in recent years has harmonized with the fact that we have the right to the government's finances and have restored them to a solid foundation. Thus, the subject ahead is to preserve and extend success by coordinated financial management, public finance, and the labour market. This will contribute to moderate economic growth and stability. Official funds need to be returned and properly maintained in the years to come. We need to emphasize good conversation, good cooperation, good peace with the workforce. Along with the financing bill, a new government presents a financial policy that provides the lines on key issues of public funds for the next five years, particularly on the development of overall recovery and debt. The policy puts it that the remainder of the state's budget will be increased in 2018, compared with the budget of the current year, and that the remainder of the budget will be moderate thereafter. It will then be assumed that continuing subsidies in debt, as previously noted, the policy of this kind has increased confidence in the state of the state of the international government, which is reflected in the intervening process. in increasing credit scores and improved credit rates. In the context of this week, the State received a very favorable increase in the publishing of bonds in euro, and the action marks a major milestone in terms of a favorable market for the state's funds. The financial policy also shows how governments intend to meet laws on public finances that will be based on baseline stability and sustainableity and will follow financial guidelines for the recovery and debt of the period. The implementation of these values and principles for the development of public finance, set up by the General of the Council, has a high priority in economic stability, as it is designed to promote economic stability. A respectable president. The economic and financial situation of the State is of great interest in international comparison, and it has led to the improvement in government credit balance in recent years. If Iceland is compared to the European Union, it can be seen that the equation has been higher in recent years than that of the European Union. Iceland's new national economy expects 4.9% of interest in 2017, and though it declines next year, it will continue to be strong or about 3%. Some 3.5% of GDP is expected to remain high in the original equation over the next year. This bill suggests that there will be close to 1.3% of gross domestic product in 2018 or about 35 billion dollars. which is in line with the government's new financial policy, although it allows for the remainder to go down to up to 1.2%. That is beyond what was provided by men in 2017 when we did the same work a year ago. Since its peak in 2012, the decline in the debt of the state has been successfully achieved, at a rate of 1,500 billion. In the past three years alone, the debt has dropped by about 400 billion dollars. Thus, over the course of the current year, they decline by less than 200 billion dollars. This will reduce the cost of growth over the next few years of about 9 billion dollars. every year. However, growth payments continue to be a major factor in the financial expenses and are expected to be 58 billion dollars. Next year, however, interest rates are also calculated due to the pension debt of 14 billion dollars. Remuneration is expected to be continued. Thus, the share of gross domestic product will be about 31% at the end of the year. A respectable president. I mentioned here in the beginning that the theme of a new government is that the whole community will benefit from the present economic growth and that the future should be trusted in social stability, prosperity, and quality of life. Higher income and space created because of subsidies, there is the opportunity to strengthen various infrastructures and improve service to the country. There is still a cumulative need for investment from the years following collapse, and there is a partial need for the government's financial bill, that is, of course, not a job, that is a project for the coming years, but we add to the investment with the financial bill, and we also meet better than we have in the past few years on more efficient services in various fields. There is an additional contribution to health care in the budget, including the financial bill. with an injection into the clinic, but also with a number of other resources. Remuneration will be expected to be due to the dental expenses of the elderly and the disability pensioner next year. We're going to add purchases, hospital services are better funded, that's for Land Hospital, as well as local medical institutions. We're looking at business and equipment at the same time. A special contribution is made to the services of metabolic sex offenders outside the capital area, which have been broken in recent years. In all, increased donations are being made for cases related to sexual abuse of some 400 million dollars. in various topics. The overall increase in health between budgets in 2017 and 2018 is well over 21 billion. Then everything is included, paid, and paid. I have to say in the context that there are many indications that there is room to add as much to the individual language fields in the coming years to be limited, but the General Assembly has been able to adjust in recent years. This has generally been so since the Senate's budget has been proposed, based on the spring forecasts of the Habitat, national interest, until the budget has been completed, a new national interest project has been established, and so the income forecasts have grown up here in the council to improve in various issues. There is much to suggest that this time is now nearing its end by improving economic growth, and there is no constant growth in the scope of the council in order to increase the number of issues. I was just going to make this comment that as a general comment as a result of a very substantial rise, or about 20 billion, of contributions to health between the next year's budget. The financial program adopted earlier this year was estimated to be close to 10.5 billion dollars. Next year, the plan remains on the bill. However, in the current year, child - welfare is expected to be about 9.6 billion dollars. So these policies mean that the expenses for child - welfare will increase by less than 10% between year and year. We intend to continue to meet the proposals for better coordination of the improving systems, i.e. the growth reform system, the child-replacement system, the housing system, and the integration of these tax reform classes. During the New Year's season, income markets will change because of professional pensioners when the holiday target is up to 100 levels. K. per month. This will increase the cost of over 1 billion. The budget is a field of education and culture that makes significant changes if we look at the basis for the financial program to compare. There are 450 million. K. The contribution to the grammatical project is increased by 400 million. K. This year, as compared with a financial program, with contributions to a college of about 1 billion dollars (U.S.). All of this helps to improve the quality of study at these school points. It is a special goal to raise funds for each of the colleges until they are firmly comparable to the OECD countries and then the North countries in 2025. We need to come to some understanding of how we should make this comparison. Of course, it is absolutely impossible in a general discussion of contributions to lawsuits that are as important as these that we cannot even reach a conclusion on the comparators. That should be the basis for all discussion. Then we will see how we will reach the goals we will set for ourselves in this regard. I believe myself that as long as Iceland is creating valuables and producing and producing land production here on a man who is amongst the most important things in the world, we shouldn't have to be in discussions about the fact that the contributions to key issues such as these, education in Iceland, are on average comparing countries. It's not supposed to be like that. Then there is another debate whether it is best on the basis of the share of land production, but we should, of course, look at the results in these systems at the same time. A respectable president. This is a very short period of time dosed to review a big case. I'd like to suggest that the budget is greatly increased by transport and communications projects. I would also like to say that together with the budget bill, the income bill will reflect the special discussion on the subject of the government. I also refer to the Treaty on matters that the government would like to promote in that field, on the importance of getting along well with the labour market on the subject, which will eventually have much to do with dates and individual applications in that category. I'll finish my case, end my time. I'm simply going to finish my case by saying that this budget bill is a financial bill for a country in attendance. [[The president calls.]] We're moving forward on the basis of this budget bill. We're on our way to a higher standard of life for all the people of the country. It is by the words I propose, more dignified President, that the bill will be after the discussion referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board. [[The president calls.]] I want to work well with the committee, which I know is a major challenge in a crisis of time, and I wish her luck with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u5	Mr. President. The emphasis of the Independence Party on this government community, not at all in a government covenant, nor in the budget as the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party introduces today. It's at the highest. A minister to hear that he is the most proud of his efforts to further the government's expenses and is then struck by a new tone of the chairman of the Independence Party. When I'm at the highest. A minister was asked where to find the focus of the Party in a government covenant yesterday, he spoke of tax losses, the Independence Party had apparently been opposed to tax increases, and here people would see the effects of a decrease in taxes. V.E.G. Minister: Where will taxes be reduced? You're not gonna be very alert on this bill. However, tax increases are being made in various places. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is riding in the field with a new government led by the left-hand movement, which presents tax increases, including greens, and greens. A 50% rise in carbon costs and let the story know that it's only the beginning. We can expect further increases there, and in fact, they will find more taxes, new green taxes, and put on extra taxes. It's the same thing that I'm especially interested in hearing the highest opinion. So a minister will determine whether and when he intends to fulfill his promise at the beginning of 2016 to cut down insurance fees in a certain way. The bill as the highest. A minister now presents a steady increase in the laws given to the job life by paying insurance, the stocks rising by more than 8%, including due to increased protests in the pension fund. But there is nothing to be done. There is nothing that they do to fulfill their promises. A minister almost gave two years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u6	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the interest he shows the independence party's policy in the various litigation categories. It would probably take a good time at the council to review the course of the Independence Party, in the focus of the government and in the government covenant. That would be, for example. can be done in foreign affairs. I'm pointing out what. A senator of that section. Then I must say that I myself wait to see his class policy, which was always offered before elections, but never really except in the rough lines, the wide lines were presented but little else. The independent party simply represents our being on the land with a powerful career that is under a powerful welfare system. All the things I said in my speech earlier show that we are reaching them up to this day, in recent years, and until the next year. We may never have stood strong as an economic system, with Icelanders. That's why we put more money on the welfare system, as I traced yesterday. All our work is to nurture this society. We're doing it better, with the standard of living in Iceland, the ultimate measure of how we Iceland are doing, with the best we can find in the world. That's what the Independence Party's policy is, and it's doing very well. In terms of tax reductions, I'd like to call the senator's attention that in the budget adopted at the General Assembly last spring, fuel charges were expected to rise by 4.7 billion. It will not rise by 4.7 billion, as expected by the government budget, but by some 1.6 billion. That's a change. Hv. A senator said that at the beginning of 2016, I preached a reduction in insurance fees. In the middle of that year, insurance fees dropped by 0.5%, so I did pretty well, as foretold. As for further reductions in insurance fees, I refer to the government contract. It is absolutely essential that we do not eliminate the insurance fee from the whole with what is going on at the labour market. [[The president calls.]] It must eventually be an agreement, and we are not going to risk the survival of the State by one - side reduction without regard to what is happening there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u7	A respectable president. It would have been better to get to the top. The minister kept this phrase and took it to a meeting in Valhalla and used the time further to answer the questions asked, the government's tax policy, and especially the highest fact. The secretary of finance, the head of the Independence Party, presents a bill here where he primarily stresses raising the budget; raising taxes on both the public and the business - because on whom does it land when carbon pay is up 50%? And that's just the beginning. Of course, it affects the public in the country, both directly, by the fact that more animals have to travel, as well as by raising the loans of their homes. V.E.G. One minister said that it would probably be a matter of taking a good time at the council to discuss the importance of the independence party's work. This hardly refers to a long time, for it does not take long to review the priorities of the Independence Party in this administrative work. They can't be found. Yes, foreign affairs say in the highest part of the world. Minister. The Independence Party gets to have opinions about how things are in foreign lands, but here at home, left is going to take over the green. V.E.G. President. The highest. The secretary of finance answered where in this bill there are emphasises that are in accordance with the highest standard. For many years a minister has spoken about the importance of reducing spells on the public? It doesn't seem to show up in the bill. On the contrary: increases, increases, and increases. And at least at the height. A certain reduction in the insurance fee in 2016 was set out by the minister at the beginning of the year in the way the cost would be reduced step by step. The first step may have been taken, but when is the final goal? Minister to take the next step?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u8	A respectable president. I find it difficult to answer these general comments by breaking my answer to a group. Here it is claimed that the budget and government's focus do not reflect my policies. It's just an experience. A senator he has to live with, and I have to accept. But the fact is, after all, the course of my rank and our approach to government is changing beyond one thing, which is improving the standard of life of the average working man in this country. And it's done well. It has been successful every year, and the budget shows that the terms will continue to improve over the years; that we are making room for economic stability and vigorous employment to strengthen the infrastructure, build a better road system, drive safer health care around the country; setting up extra money for health care at the medical institutions all over the country; with increased donations for education. That, among other things, is the policy of the Independence Party, if any. A senator has not realized that. And when we talk about spells, we've been, like, traced to the budget, reducing curses, both on working people, and on business in recent years. We offer further measures, but they must harmonize with stability targets. We are not going to sacrifice the stability for the specific policy of the Independence Party or our partners in this government. This cannot be done because, in the end, the nation's long - term interests are not being won.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u9	V.E.G. President. It's really nice to be back in this room after an eight-year absence. I've been teaching my students up in the University of Iceland that they must never compare apples with oranges, that it was nothing. So I'm amazed to describe myself as being strange at the highest level. A secretary of finance who pretends that this is not a matter of election struggle several weeks ago where the pack members praised and praised what they had done. In the wake of this election, there was one political party that literally promised 100 billion dollars. the infrastructure, and it was the highest category. Secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. Of course, there is an additional campaign supply of what had already been decided on the bill of the last government that exploded in the fall. V.E.G. The prime minister and financial minister are able to expand all numbers by aiming at the budgets of his last year, but he forgets that he was in the fall of promising additional promises from what had already been promised. Now I've read this bill, and I don't see the much infrastructure he promised. The independent party promised a great deal of transportation, and now it turns out that the addition here is just a fraction of it, and this confirmed the road chief yesterday. The independent group also wanted to strengthen the health system, but the director of the Land Hospital also confirmed that seawater is still missing yesterday, let alone some kind of injection that has been promised. The independent group also promised a special campaign in the development of nursing homes, but there is little evidence of this in the bill, for the nursing and rehabilitation of the brain accounts accounts for an increase of 0.6% between the bills. And there was to be an increase in obstetrical, which is unchanged, to be added to child reforms, but it is unchanged. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Why does he not fulfill a promise that he literally made just seven weeks ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u10	A respectable president. You feel like you're back in the campaign when in the first few days of the council, you're doing what you've done before the election and you've arranged for voters. I have to say, just as it is, it is with great pride that I come here to this council with this budget bill, with large contributions to the classes we would specifically like to use, and at the same time, it is beginning to be a financial program for the next year that we will discuss in spring. With regard to the infrastructure, this bill is being added compared to what was previously planned. Of course, the State's scope on that subject will not be evident until it is in progress. We'll cover budget bill every year. Every year, we will make up for a new national budget. Then we can continue our conversation about how we will manage to keep our main emphasis on our mind and including injection into the wood, social infrastructure, manpower, road construction, etc. That's the answer I have for you. A senator, that the bill is in line with the emphasis we spoke for elections and received full support and follow through on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u11	Mr. President. It seems odd to you at the highest. A minister of finance finds it strange that I am quoting from his words just before elections. Of course, we're supposed to make up the campaign and the election. Of course, we need to talk about it as high as possible. The minister of finance promised the nation and was elected to do so. That's why I feel so unscrupulous that the voters' eyes are being crushed and spoken of as being on the road some great infrastructure when we see black on whites on this first fiscal bill that it's not there. To raise the money to the health care unit by 3% is not a major visit to health care. To make an increase to everyone's hospitals is 0.35% of all the government's income is not the grand investment promised by the government groups. And to put an older citizen behind us again despite the promises of all these government groups, Mr. President, is not acceptable. Coming here just before the election and promising 100 billion bucks. The infrastructure and then return a budget bill which only changes the last bill by 2 percent, by about 15 billion - this is an insult to voters. It's under the roof. The real financial minister 2 percentage points increase is a powerful infrastructure? When did 100 billion become 15 billion? The marvel seems to have happened by the transfer of the provincial party to the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u12	A respectable president. I think it would be. A senator better come here and list all the tax increases he would have liked to see a new financial bill, the people of the country, the working people, the jobs, and the others who are going to live under the account that he misses not being presented to the country's taxpayers on the financial bill. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Where are billions of them? A senator was going to pick them up, and who was to pay them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u13	You're the one who promised...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u14	I was never the one who spoke for tax promotions, although the Union was their true ideal to speak to people who work harder, higher tax dollars, and higher taxes everywhere where it can be handled. [[You promised 100 billion.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u15	The president asks the senators to give the highest commission. A minister would answer. It's obligatory to sign the chairman of the United States on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u16	A respectable president. The fact is, those who speak here for lack of new expenses, although we actually measure these years in terms of interest from year to year - we increase our expenses during the current year by 8% and we return to that number by means of this financial bill. Of course, it is not sustainable every year to make the budget of the state budget grow so much year after year. It will not be that way in the next national budget for growth. However, those who miss their expenses will have to come to this platform and talk to the people in the country about all the taxes they would have made sure that the people should pay to live up to them. I hear it from the United States, actually, I hear it higher after the election than before the election, that they miss the lack of taxes. It's just gonna have to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u17	A respectable president. In discussions about the government's budget, the importance of stability, the importance of government responsibilities, the importance of improving the standard of living for the people of the land. It is often forgotten in the discussion that much of the lives of the same people depend on the conditions in which we live, how we manage in responsible economic management to create lower interest levels, stable economic conditions in the long term. Throughout the years and decades, homes have been affected by most of the problems of instability, interest costs, gang failures followed by irresponsible financial management, and irresponsible economic management. It's not much of a talk. It is easy to measure the success of politicians in raising expenses, raising contributions to the individual aspects of government management, but it is quite difficult to measure their results when it comes to this very important factor, the economy. In discussions about financial policy, the last government said it was the highest. Secretary of finance, the prime minister, that if one could agree on something, it would likely be that the maintenance of the economic policy would be too low in the present circumstances, it would have to be more. Since then, economic forecasts have been raised and warned about the importance of financial maintenance from Seal Bank and other experts. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Budget Minister: What accounts for the loss of this transition in the years to come, the cost to increase further, and the extent to which financial policies should be maintained significantly in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u18	A respectable president. It is true that many of us call in connection with the budget bill, and indeed in the Treaty, that the stress of stability, the balance of economic matters, which will then ensure a steady price and a lower stature than we have become used to. As we look at where we are today and what has happened in the past few years, it has, in fact, achieved tremendous success in this regard. And since the interest rates in the country are mentioned here, I allow myself to draw attention to the fact that it is difficult to find another time when the actual size of the mortgage has been as low as today. I'm guessing that ever since the withdrawal of insurance, there was a lower level of real growth than it was today. So we're achieving an increase in stability. And we've had the inflation right away, and we've been paying the prices of the Federal Bank for about four years now continuously. This refers to words that came up with a discussion about finance policy last spring. So when this policy was taken to vote, it was claimed that there was too much effort. I pointed out in the context that in 2017, the cost had increased by 8.5% and that this might be said, if anything, that there was a very little hold on the money. In 2017, an 8.5% increase in the budget was below. Hv. A senator claims that we have some transformation into the new financial policy. It's off and on. We will return a good overall change; although the state's share will slightly reduce its policy in 2018 and continue to be effective. A senator could hardly argue that what is below, a decrease in total state funds by 0.2 percent of land production, is some corrosion. [[The president calls.]] Or what? Or believe it. A senator, for 5 billion to, or from 2,500 billion economy, will move big mountains?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u19	A respectable president. Yes, I believe that changing financial policy has a significant impact. Over the years and decades, it has been proved that it is during these very times that are most difficult to keep Kingdom interests in check. It is simply destroyed. They never think about the long term. In fact, it brings to mind another significant change in the discussion here at the council in just one year. In the discussion of budgets a year ago, a body of Congress agreed that the monopolitan funds were to be used to pay off debt. I think it's really important, when we watch a swinging Icelandic economy, that we have a good look at the state's debt status at this point when we're at the height of the economy. It will be much more difficult to carry 70 billion interest costs when the current level of consumption is stressed and maintained at the same time. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: When it comes to the declarations of the presidents of a new government and the Treaty of a new government, it suddenly adds to another tone of voice when it comes to the monopolitan government. They can suddenly be used to finance a variety of government expenses, not to pay off debts, but to finance what is called one - part projects in the infrastructure. I've never experienced a decrease in infrastructure in this country over the years. The requirements simply grow with our effectiveness in that field. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: What is meant first, and how is this limited? And rather than paying off debts and paying off interest costs, what explains the change? It is good to bear in mind that by throwing responsibility on the financing of the Memorial for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u20	A respectable president. I think if it happened. A senator would foresee the kind of policy I have been living in in recent years with regard to payment of debt, and the arrangement of monopolizement would become a very clear picture. Never before in U.S. government history, we have done as much effort as we have in recent years to pay off debts. No country in Europe has ever dropped its debt rate as fast as Iceland in recent years. Of course, in the discussion of the provision of monopolies, it has made a big difference in recent years that we would agree on a provision of the huge financial heights that we have guaranteed a government fund through the stability process. Of course, it is crucial in the discussion. It was an all - out discussion of the provision of monopolies to establish an agreement here at the council that this exchange of hundreds of billions would have to be set aside for payment on debt - and we did. We worked on another hundred billion into pension bonds, and we paid off other debts. We've also reduced the size of the government budget, to form like the one I traced to earlier. So we're following this course. Change of financial policy is one thing. I can agree with what. A senator says that during a delicate period of time, significant changes in financial policy are not good messages. But that's not what I asked. A senator about. I asked him: "Does he believe that 5 billion in the total wealth of the state will make a big difference to 2500 billion economy? Because there are about 0.2% of national productions of about 5 billion. That's all. I can't believe that any human seriously argues in the discussion that the change, from 1.5% to 1.3%, as expected by the financial bill, is the source of any such discussion, that this is a destabilization. It just doesn't make any sense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u21	President. I'd like to start by asking about access to the budget bill. Today, unusual circumstances would have helped very much to gain access to the financial bill sooner. It would easily have been possible, e.g. to receive an electronic publication instead of waiting for a printed copy that we received only in the afternoon on Wednesday. Why could members of the Parliament not be allowed access to the financial bill until then? The financial policy I hold has been talked about and was put along the budget, but the financial bill presented is based on the policy unsolved by the General Assembly. It would be true that the government would bring up a financial bill according to current policy, a current financial agenda. She is simply not permitted to do anything else. It's the General Assembly that's going to administer the budget. If financial or financial policies are to be removed, then new financial policies and programmes must be agreed first. I'd like to know which authority the government believes he has to take against Generals' approved policy and plan. I would also like to agree with what I feel is missing, for then the Allied can do a lot of things. In the budget bill, I feel that there is a real need for housing action. In addition, there is not a comprehensive transport strategy, which is also agreed on by the General. It should simply be a government project to make up what the General has agreed on. What's going on here, if you don't mind me asking? Why can't the government apply what the Council has agreed to?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u22	A respectable president. Thus, regarding a presentation on the bill, a representative of the councils was called in line with an agreement that had been done there as soon as possible. Then it opened into a general presentation until the past few years, or the next morning at nine o'clock. With regard to financial policy, I think we can agree that the important thing is that the government, along with this financial bill of its policy, is out of harmony with its last approved policy. That's what I think is the main thing. How the council treats the proceedings, whether or not the Parliament will provide the budget for economic policy unsaid, the council is a matter. It's not a matter of the government. The matter has simply come to the council. There's still some way to measure the financial policy. But I don't think it would be unusual for the council to make a decision to decommission the budget by some change after an incident, without the approval of a financial policy, which, of course, means a statement on the part of the council, is approved by the bill, that there is no other about financial policy in 2018 than to bless what it says. To me, the council should take a few weeks to complete the financial policy, with the opinion of a financial body not until Christmas and New Year's. In the housing situation, I have to refer to what has been going on over the past few years regarding the construction of general apartments. It has been successful and is well financed by the financial bill. Besides, I have to keep up, as I would always like to do when housing comes up, that there is nothing that matters to house owners, those who have borrowed money to buy property, more important than economic stability and lower interest levels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u23	President. If there is nothing more important than economic stability, and if we are to accept the financial laws that are not in accordance with current financial policies and financial programmes, what effect do we have on the economy? That's right, I'll agree with you, then the Council is in charge of what it does in the handling of the budget bill, as there's a budget right here. But the government itself does not have permission to overtake what the General has approved. It is simply the correct order of action that the General will get expert opinions on the effects of change, what is being put in excess of financial policies in the local budget, above financial and financial policies. It is simply important, for we are not as experts; we are a kinse of our convictions or of our conscience. If we are to make decisions that are based on and support that conviction, we need the information that we can obtain from our physician. It was mentioned earlier that there was an increase in records. But it must also be considered that the State's share is being reduced in terms of GDP. It is likely something that the Independence Party might be proud of, having reduced the size of the government in the entire cake. We need to keep in mind that we may be making a record of a dollar's count and so on, but much is being reduced by public activity. It is often extremely complicated to compare percentages with numbers. Another thing I would like to note: If the minister of finance is so pleased with the current budget bill, was he not pleased with the last financial bill, then in September? [[The president calls.]] I don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u24	President. I'd like to say, for the sake of this, that we're in a very abnormal situation with regard to the time crisis. I think it's a little hard to take a deep discussion about how things could be when things are the way they are. I totally understand why. A senator with regard to the budget bill alone, that it would be good to have received financial advice. But then I draw attention to the fact that such a financial opinion will not involve every budget. It is only once, in connection with financial policy, and then when the budget is submitted in the spring. [[Up front.]] In this context, it is possible to look to the last financial hearing on the basis of the policy and read into it all the data. But I'm not going to minimize these views. I simply agree with that. And I'm also going to make it count that I really think that we're in the same place at the council to make a requirement for this series of cases because it's new. We get into the habit that things are supposed to be like this, that we have some long - term vision underneath, and that each year's bill has to fit into the long - term vision, and that there is some link between the budget and budget and there can be no vellum from one budget to the next. In this context, we now publish for the first time by means of the three - year - disintegration bill in the copy of the copy of the copy of this guide, breaking down the topic field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u25	It was the last time, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u26	- We're doing it for the first time this winter to the future. I mention it because new governments and new Ministers have actually had no time to work on this three-year plan. [[The president calls.]] I'll flaunt it in that context. If somewhere, there may be room for change, perhaps in the latter part of the set of values included in the publication.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u27	A respectable president. First, I wish that the Ministers will be called to the chamber as promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u28	Wishing we had. A senator after recessing his case until all the Ministers are here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u29	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u30	It's just that kind of thing. The president will make a quick search for how many ministers are in a house and pray. A senator waiting. - It's reported that all ministers, except two, are in a house. Those who are not already in the hall are on their way to the hall. The two outside the house at the moment will be called. The question is, Is it acceptable for what? In such a situation, would a member of the council give his speech? It is. He says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this experiment. The guys of the left green said yesterday in this council hall that we should just be happy with their budget bill. That they were saving the infrastructure, the health system, the education system, etc. Mr. President. I haven't heard such nonsense in a long time. Consider only Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's financial bill. First of all, there is nothing wrong with society. Now 5% of the richest population has almost as much soil as the other 95%. 5% has almost as much as 95%. Is this difference okay with the left green? No, at least not before the election. The tax system was certainly to be attacked at that time, but once the chairs have been divided, little or nothing will happen in the struggle for equal society. If something's gone the other way. The Treaty will include tax policy on the right person, the reduction of income tax, which will be of greater benefit to the higher income groups than the 800-year population. K. or more in pay than people in the lowest remunerations if these plans are carried out. In addition, there is a possibility of reorganizing the fiscal tax system so that capital owners are to be protected from inflation, protection to which the public and ordinary people in general do not live. At that time, fishing costs are still expected to be only 1.2% of the government's income. There are not many owners of resources that would accept only about 1% of their income from their primary resources, but the Icelandic people are allowed to do so. Clearly, then, the government has taken over the large structure rather than the public. Let us take a closer look at the bill. Here, it is very important that we compare it with the bill laid forth by the ancient government in the fall, and VG fought violently against it. They even called the bill right starving policy, a pathetic bill. Well, then VG must have completely changed the miserable right bill. Or what? First of all, there is no injection into the children's recovery system. Child damages will be just as high as they had already decided. They will be just as high as the government budget had been set. A health minister then called a straitjacket. This bill doesn't do anything about the children's affairs in this regard. The same can be said of the birthworm, but the exact amount of money that has been added to it and that has been determined in this miserable right bill that VG criticized a few weeks ago. The VG entrance into the government will not change it when it comes to family members. Second, there is no injection into the growth reform system. In fact, this bill adds up 2 billion. Third, ask: Where is the big educational pursuit? Yeah, we're supposed to reach the North countries in eight years, but eight years is now a pretty long time in politics. I was at a meeting with VG's president just before the election, where she promised a lot of education injections, but it's just like a lot of other things. High school is said to receive 400 million, an increase of 1.8%. Yet, high school has a requirement of 600 million, which the VG did not have in the fall. The colleges all get 1.2 billion. There is no great increase in education in any sense of that word. Iceland's University has some 800 million, which is half as low as VG's chairman spoke of in this hall that it would be necessary to go to school just a few weeks ago. Research at the university level gets 0K. By the entrance of the VG to the government. Fourth, it's the health issue, which is the biggest issue in the mind of voters. However, in view of the list of terms established by the government, it is found that out of six cases announced by the Minister, five of them are either the case of a former health minister or the implementation of an EU directive. Is this all the ambition in the highest? A health minister when it comes to health care? And when it comes to an investment in health care, we still have a very good health - care system. The exact amount of money goes to new hospitals and had been set for elections, and the total increase to every hospital in the country is 3 billion, which is 0.35% of the income. In other words, VG would put 0.35% of all government revenues as an additional part of the hospitals. Last night, the director of the Land Hospital confirmed that there is a considerable need for just disappearing, let alone an injection or structure in the system. Mr. President. The health care department receives an additional 600 million, far from what was said. This is a 3% rise. Nursing and rehabilitation are even less elevated, 0.6% as in an advanced government. Is this the survival of the health system at its highest level? The health minister told me yesterday she was in charge? And what about the housing? Let us take a look at them. Why are they not injected, as promised? Money in the founded budget is exactly the same as the provision of an advanced government. And the amount of money in the litigation suit is exactly the same on a dollar. At that time, only 3,80 million are being spent in the treatment of sexual crime, but the whole community has been calling for a major effort in this regard. Meanwhile, the government decides to spend 0.04% of its earnings in that great effort. The effort on climate matters mentioned, I think, 15 times in the Treaty, is almost nothing additional than other WG's priorities. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, this campaign receives 20 million injections from VG, who would like to be just the same amount as the prime minister intends to protect specifically to hire a press officer. With President's permission, I'd like to quote. A senator who gave this talk chair just three months ago: ▪ Government should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice to come to their senses. Those words said the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, just three months ago. Now this same person has become the most powerful politician in the country. Even so, she is asking poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. Mr. President. We'll see that this is no longer possible. We are the 11th richest nation in the world, at the height of the swing. We still have 6,000 missing children. We've got 40% older civilians living under the straggler line, and we have a young generation that's worse than the previous generation, the first generation in Iceland's history, I'd say. The changes in taxes are insignificant. This bill gives us a terrible feeling of tea. That's a lot of concern. No additional income is derived from foreign tourists. The marine road is quick when there is an increase in resource costs. No more money from banks, and no one is now the wealth tax. The financial bill is up to 840 billion. The change that VG boasts of having penetrated is 2% of the total budget. The impact of VG's impact on the government and their arrival in the government is up to 2%. VG is achieving a 2% deviation from a budget bill they completely rejected about a month ago and thought it was a sign of right hunger policy and it was pathetic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech, which was a pain in the heart, I believe, on the basis of the occasion. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should watch the case he was referring to, with only fairer glasses. He cannot deny that a billion more into college levels from a previous financial bill is a real injection. Then at least he'd be at least In agreement with the head of the University of Iceland, who described a special pleasure with the proposal as well as the 250 million that are supposed to go to Alder's Day Fund. There is a significant change in direction from the time of the former government, where that fund was not continued. I give you the surprising details of the senator's grief. Then I'd like to say, because of what. A senator here talks about the tax issues I have so often discussed in this hall, as everyone knows, that the tax change made in the budget is to create an increase in capital income tax, which is the most important way to reduce the inequities. A senator referred to him. Knowing and studying how we want to reduce social inequities is the right thing that we have often managed here, that the inequities are less involved in income and possessions, so the main issue is how we make either money from property or from property itself. Hv. A senator knows, too, if he put reasonable glasses on his nose, that those who spoke for a wealth tax before the last election, i.e. My movement, my movement, my movement. A senator, received a total of 29% elections. None of the other classes adopted that idea. It's hard to see that they'd got a railroad walk in this room. Because of what? A senator says that I'm betraying what I've said here about not having to wait for justice, so I'm doing it and saying: " It's more important to look at what's going on than to sit around and criticize, which, of course, is also a way to get involved in politics. I think, and there's no way to overlook, that the promotion of the education system is a way to level in this community -- or is. A senator wouldn't agree with me on that? [[The president calls.]] At least if we view traditional teachings as well - trained. Detracting the payment of the elderly and the disability of dentistry is a way to balance the benefits of this community. [[The president calls.]] The tax change that goes through here is about capital gains. It's a way of evening the ideals in this community. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with me about that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u33	A respectable president. I'm heartbroken, I just have to admit it. I think it's such a terrible financial bill. This is in no harmony that had been promised. We're supposed to take promises seriously. We talked about this election meeting after an election meeting. We claimed that, both the United States and the VG. We had already financed our promises. We're going to increase the government's income. It is to be done at the height of the swing. It's simple economics. We're supposed to strengthen the state's income institutions at the height of the fluctuation, create permanent income routes to pursue academic affairs. But this government does not. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that the education system is one of the most important instruments of life - growth and biomass. But this government is not helping. You're only putting about half of what the University of Iceland called, and head of VG called for himself just a few weeks ago. The director of VG also pointed out the need for research. Why does zero dollars come to a college degree? Why does zero dollars come for child support? Why do growth improvements continue to decline? Half of those who accepted interest benefits at the time have passed out of the growth system. One-quarter is lost from the child-replacement system. Why not rebuild the systems I know to stand at the highest. Prime Minister Near the Heart? It was an opportunity to have a socialistic government. Let's think about it a little bit. It would have been the highest. The prime minister did not have to defend this terrible bill. I can say that it's the highest. Prime Minister had a choice. She chose to choose this government, which is 98% with the same budget bill as she and her associates called a lousy straitjacket bill and a right-seat policy. VG achieved 2% change. It's just unacceptable. You have to answer us and vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u34	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has chosen, as I say, to leave his fair glasses at home if he rejects it to form what is being done here for education is reversed from the course of the last government, who wanted to take the lead in cutting high school across what had been promised in the last government. This government is about to sponsor the university. Hv. A senator here speaks of a competitive fund in the field of research and science. He knows exactly how well, just like me, that in recent years he's been getting stronger. The foundation is needed, it's in high school itself, therefore the priority is there. Hv. A senator knows that just as well as I do. He can come up here and say grief, but he knows it's where the shoe goes off. There's a budget to be set. Hv. A senator may belittle the tax change that this is raising the capital tax. I asked why. A senator with a very simple question earlier. He couldn't answer my comment in his answer, i.e. whether he believed that there was the majority of support in this room with the policy of setting out to form a wealth tax and whether he would not agree that the best way to use the tax system to the equation would be to watch the income of property. He did not respect those comments. That's what this is about. I can't figure it out either way. A senator has thought that when preparing this budget bill, all promises for the last campaign would be fulfilled. Of course not! We need to work in accordance with our long - term vision. Isn't that what they always call in this room? Will we not make a wise financial program for building up? It's not what. A senator agrees, as at least The members of his party have regularly spoken of, requiring public housing for further review? Or wants some. A senator that here is just making decisions over a few days without taking a long view of how we can use our housing to serve more fully those who need it? Then I am listening to what his party's representatives have been talking about over the past few years in which there have been various procedures that have not necessarily served the most needs of housing support, i.e. Young people and poor people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u35	A respectable president. V.E.G. One prime minister says that we need to be responsible, and I need to be reasonable. I'll try to be reasonable. I know you can't do everything for everybody. But isn't it okay to do something? More than 2%, it was unrealistic to do more than 2%, a two - percent change in the bill that the United States, left greens, and other classes criticized. Is that asking too much? Am I too dramatic when I call for more change than 2%?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u36	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u37	That's what I'm pointing at. I want to point the top, too. Is it true that she chose this partner who achieved her whole way? But the left green policy, where I can agree with so many things, was absolutely necessary when the government covenant was made. [[Up front.]] With the financing tax. I support the raising of capital tax. I want it changed. But I'm warning whether we should have some special protection against inflation. It would be interesting to hear it later today. Is the left green going to make sure it's like a eco tax instead of a gross tax? At this point, I think it is much more logical to look at a holiday goal. We should take a closer look. It would be much more, in my opinion. [[Up front.]] The restoration is such a simple procedure to reach people. When we were together in the government, United States and VG, the interest rates were three times higher in the dollar as they are today. So this is a matter of political will. They were 12 billion when left green and United States were last in government. There's four of them now and dropping. This is the political priorities that we in the United States are so disgruntled with. You people in VG are so disappointed in us, and it's our job to direct you to this. You're not supposed to be complaining about that criticism. This bill is not in harmony with what you promised voters and the nation. I need you to answer for this. I don't think I'm unreasonable in pointing to past promises that are now not over seven weeks' age, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator would like to have a word with him about some matters related to the medical system. I want to thank him for joining me in making great demands there, and I have high expectations that next year's state financial agenda will be talking about the future attendance on the future. The nation signed a plea to the government at its time, led by Kári's Stefánsson that we should aim for 11% of GDP to go to health care. In fact, the cost of the event was inside. Hv. A senator comes from the university environment and wants us to don't compare apples and oranges and watch out for our numbers. I'd like to mention that when it happened. A senator speaks of the state of the Hospital, which, of course, is a framework of the Icelandic medical system, the basic component of it, that the National Hospital has between 64 billion and 65 billion a year to sustain its expenses and management. The remainder of the hospital's directorship accounts for less than 1% of the total, or 600 million. K. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether this is so dramatic that he shines at this point. I also want to ask him for it, because the reasonable glasses are clearly on his table, and he takes them up from time to time, looking up on page. 245 in the budget bill, which speaks about 698 million. K. contributes to the induction of the Women's Sexual Deterioration Programme. When he and his fellow members of the United States go up to 20 million in shit, he and his fellow members go up to 20 million. " I would like to ask him if he feels that he is going to do it when it comes to the initiative for sexual misconduct. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u39	A respectable president. Of course, I find it appropriate to criticize this low amount. I don't think it's appropriate to have 20 million at first. We're supposed to put a lot more money in this, chief. President. V.E.G. A medical minister gave an inspired talk yesterday and literally said that we should thank her and her friends for saving the health system. It's just not the situation. The director of the Land Hospital has already pointed out that this is not even enough to last, let alone some kind of injection or repair in the health system at the highest level. A health minister has called in both speech and literature while she was on the other side of the table. The hospital in Akureyri has a problem, too. There is also a problem with the medical institutions of the East. No one sees this injection as the highest. A health minister thinks he's in charge. V.E.G. The health minister signed a petition to 80,000 Icelanders that called for large investments in the health system. Why is that so? A health minister puts only 0.35% of his income into this huge effort? Why don't they put more stuff in here? We can do more. We can make money to finance our health. The people have been calling for it. It's not complicated. It is political to place more money in the medical system. That's what was meant by the highest power. A health minister while she was in a position of government. Now she's in the minister's chair, now the tone changes. In that case, it is not proper to criticize small amounts of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. Because I want to talk about the big lines here, and I think it's really important when we talk in this Senate about health status, so in the current year, we put 195 billion into the lawsuit. Next year, 217 billion. There's an increase of more than 10% between the ages of this party. But I agree with what. A senator; he can do better if he has to. I expect that. A member of the Parliament and members of the Governing Body state that we try to form a general agreement on the importance of health care in Iceland. That is what we need to do. This is in harmony with Kári Stefánsson's appeal at the time, and the Icelanders have repeated polls and in various viewpoints, stressing that they should be in complete foreground. In fact, we've been in a position with the Icelandic medical system that it hasn't reached the average OECD country. It hasn't reached the OECD average in terms of government contributions or the overall budget for the seminary. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that we are to be united here at the Assembly Hall, aims to cover the average OECD countries, even to the 11% mentioned here. What does it think is desirable or normal to see the high cost share of patients? Actually, there's 20% here in Iceland, which is all too high in a state of well-being. We're supposed to be trying to lower it so much. I trust Iceland's team to help me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u41	A respectable president. I think the highest. A health minister can trust Iceland's peers on the fact that there will be a strong health system here. That's why we are so excited because the disappointment is so intense that this bill, the left - green bill, the first financial bill of the Jakobsdóttir of Katrín, does not live up to its expectations. This is not in harmony with what this class has said in speech and literature. Yes, we call for an increase in money from the health system. I don't think it's gonna get any clearer. We agree with the highest words. Healthcare secretary for the need to improve the health system. With the permission of the president, the current highest. Healthcare Minister one year ago: To do better with the Icelandic health system, a government fund needs to be established. Why is this not done? Why isn't that done in this bill? There's a very clear explanation for the highest will. Healthcare secretary to strengthen the health system. That's why I'm so shocked that it's not done in a more powerful way than it turns out, that here people are simply proud to have reached a 2% change in right starving policy, which they called themselves. Current level. A year ago, a health minister called after a government that would operate in the spirit of socialism and equations. Yes, I still call for that government. Sadly, the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is not equal and socialistic. All you can see is black and white when you read the budget bill. It is all a disappointment, and it is a total drop - rate, especially when it comes to the health issues that the whole nation hoped to finally get the attention and money from the government as needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u42	Mr. President. A great deal of stability has been discussed here from this platform and during the first days of the council, political stability, another of which is equally important and very important, i.e. The financial stability of the state funds. When every outside situation calls for it, there is nothing to do with him in this financial bill. Money is being pumped into the same system, and no system changes are being announced. Take, for example, the medical system. It is certainly good to add, and we all agree on that, but the money has to be used wisely and the system must be revised itself. I'm the highest. A health minister to do so. Increase in donations may not always be a way to improve the quality of your ministry. Of course, we welcome these over 8 billion, this increase, but there is nothing on the budget where this money is going within the medical system. It's shocking not to be able to see it. Is this all going to Land Hospital? What about health care and what about health care? It is interesting to see how much money is being spent by the government, 100 million a year. The comparison is striking, a 50% increase. This is going to be the best. Secretary of the budget to explain further. This money would have been more useful to me. At the same time, in the Treaty, the General Assembly is being strengthened. Yeah, we're probably supposed to hire two, three employees, that's all. Clearly, this is not at a table like so many other aspects of this illustrated piece of government covenant and so long into birth. I'm just going to step on the carbon tax that goes up 50% right at the end of the year, and further increases are being proclaimed. The main causes of this problem are in the country, where most people drive, the car owners. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation kept this up for elections, that it was impossible and shouldn't be happening. The media gave it up, like any other campaign reserve for Ministers, even promoting further increases or taxation on car owners. The fiscal tax will increase by two percentages at the end of the year and will take on those who want to save and those who have saved to the upper years, and there are older citizens. This is offered to the Independence Party, the offer to senior citizens is cheap, and it is also, as shown here in yesterday's debates, public health, allowing senior citizens, older people to work longer. It should not be unfair to be an older citizen in Iceland. V.E.G. The prime minister here said that this increase was to reduce inequities. I don't agree with this, they're punishing people who save money. It's very simple. There's no decrease on the insurance bill. The insurance bill is 20 billion higher today, but it would have been the same tax rate as before a collapse. Of course, an 8.2% increase in the share of insurance fees at the same time as the remainder of the years is determined by a full card. Only to the premises; there is no increase, as noted. Where is the campaign supply of the advance party of helping young people, the first shopkeepers, the first ones to go to the house market? Then maybe it was just what they said, this campaign song, went crazy after all. No change in child development and growth improvements. Road case, 1 billion but not 1.7, since 700 million are lost as a result of last year's budget. It was all the effort we know, but to be a positive person, it is a pleasure to see an injection in education. If I go to high school especially, there are extra donations there. Students'high school values have been increased by 1.5% between budgets, and it also shows that private high school schools receive additional business contributions. It is a joy to see that left greens are leaning toward their own initiative and that they have a positive attitude toward it. However, there are two South American schools that fall under this category and have not had any rise. It's Keilir's Institute of Education and Fish Technology for Iceland. Then, only at the end, will I step toward Southnes, especially because in the autumn months of the year, Smokejanestown was well introduced to a report they made, a very well - prepared report showing that the government budgets for various Southnes are lower than are generally done to other comparable institutions in the country. Of course, it's unacceptable and incredible, and I encouraged the highest level. The secretary of finance for yesterday's speech to correct this injustice, and I'm going to reiterate it right here and now. There has been a large population growth in this region, and there is a great need to add or, at least, Correct this injustice, as I said. It's a lot of other stuff to take on the budget bill, and it's like the highest. The minister of finance said that the time is very short to go through this. You will come back and more into this discussion. But I would like to mention one other aspect of the government covenant, i.e. That we should speed up the development of a three-phase electricity. Many towns do not have these rights. However, there is no mention of how to fund this on the budget bill and, like so many other things I miss, and hopefully it will be explained in these discussions that we are participating in here. I have hoped that the government will give a clearer view of each increase in its budget. As a result, there is a need to be included in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u43	President. Before the election, Pirantars released the shadowing laws, i.e. Write down, for example, on a newly published budget bill, how we would like to see the State's spending on the subject of budget and what we would like to add to the income raise. I find it interesting to compare this financial bill with the Pirat's shadowing laws. According to Pirata's proposal, the total cost would be about 11 billion higher, a total of about 2 billion higher, and the total amount would be about 9 billion lower. And the rest would still be pretty big, or about 26 billion. But what more? Piratars, including half a billion more innovations than this budget bill, about a billion more on transport, 400 million more on family business, and 12 billion more on transport, almost 1.5 billion more on hospital services, 1.7 billion more on disability and the affairs of disabled people, 400 million more on family business, and 12 billion more on housing, than everyone knows the need for immediate action. The problem with housing markets is enormously serious; it sees the Piratars and provides solutions. In several media fields, the budget is better than the Porita's shadowy law. It is only fair to pay attention to what is well - being done. These include over 900 million higher contributions in culture, art and youth, 700 million additional to the university, 800 million additional to health care outside the hospital, 1.8 billion in drugs and medical products, and eventually 1.4 billion in the subjects of the elderly. However, it has to be added that according to Porta's shadow financial programme, 2 billion were to be added in the interests of elderly health care outside hospitals and then 1 billion at university and medical products in 2019 as well as a variety of additional aspects of other topic areas. It's going pretty close there. All of this was considered to be the most practical campaign for election specialists who went over the campaign program of all classes before elections. For example, to put academic matters in context of all of this together, the goal is to achieve the average OECD in 2020. However, the context is that Iceland is far above the average OECD in national production and even above the average of the northern countries. It is therefore a strange goal to not go to any point where we are in the OECD national product, that we at least get that seat. I looked up the copy of the 2019 - 1.7 billion more in college, nothing in high school, and then nothing in 2020. I wondered if by then the average OECD, the year 2019, will have been met with the contributions being made in the accompanying copy. But although I don't think it's as good as the Pirata shadowing laws, mostly because of the housing, it's pretty close to what Pirats and I gave up for the campaign. So I'm gonna have to give this bill a little compliment, a little bit. Of course, I cannot help but condemn how much to get up in housing. As long as one Icelander has to stay in his tent park, we are to be ashamed of ourselves. It is simply civil rights to have a roof over Iceland's head. Home needs to be built now. I would like to complete this section on the shadow law by encouraging other categories to make it a habit to produce their own shadowies. Each group, especially before elections, or even several categories, can put together a common shadow code. Each man has his own way of doing it. In order to make it easier, I will work on it within the budget board, and, after the cases of proposals and primes here at the council, that the Ministry of finance will issue some sort of budgets each spring. They would include the amount of fixed cost, such as rent and salary, contract contract work, and other things that will not be so easily changed during the coming year of financial gain. Also, income would be estimated and aided in implementing the ideas of individual categories of income. Information on key projects should also be available and expensive. Thus, not just political groups but all in the country could make their own financial laws. The outcome would be somewhat accurate. The regular expenditures will be known, income known, information on future projects known, and, above all, a disintegration of the state's basic costs will be much more accessible and will make all monitoring of how public funds are spent far more accurately and effectively. The benefits of this arrangement are unambiguous, both for Congress and for nation. Public financial law only. Here's a good review of the economic system of pay, which I made a little complaints about the last time in financial and financial programs. The next step in the matter would then be to dissociate and to sort the charge of the government a little more fully on the permanent work that the government is doing. I look forward to seeing developments in those projects. In terms of financial policy, the budget bill says that the budget bill for 2018 resides in the government's financial policy, which is put in parallel with the bill and covers the period 2018,2022. I have to make a serious comment about this. The financial bill is supposed to follow policy, but not just be together. If the budget bill depends on unassigned financial policy and plan as well as the plan, where the plan is to follow the policy, for example, we don't have the information and the opinion of budgetary policies, data on the extent, size and development of property, debt and long-term commitments, and then a report on how to enforce the baselines. And then, of course, financial advisers consider all of this. As members of Congress, we are elected to follow our convictions according to the constitution. Senators seem to be perfectly informed about this, considering the policy debates being presented yesterday. More than once, it mentioned the conviction of members of Congress. However, since members of Congress are not informed about the material impact of the economic policy of the present government, this co - law indicates that we cannot make an informed decision. We are not idealized by our expertise in identifying financial policies. We are confident that we can get experts'opinions on these matters so that we can make informed decisions based on our convictions. What's going on here under current financial policy? According to current financial policy, debt should be paid off, as said in financial policy: ▪ The position that all irregular incomes of the state's funds and other exchange funds will be spent in the reduction of debt or pension bonds. The exact nature of irregular income is no more explained, but it may be fishing costs and remuneration based on the way they have rocked up and down the past few years. There's a lot of stuff here. It is talked about how the proposals for total survival have been reduced, which should be 1.5% of state funds compared to GDP, but is only 1.2% in the financial policy to which it is submitted. There, rural society should return 0.2%, but not 0.1%, as expected in current financial policy. It's in accordance with the secretary of finance telling me that it was the last weekend. That's interesting to me. When we crossed current financial policy, it seemed very unlikely that rural society would bring it back to 0.1%. Something might have changed. Of course, it should be noted that in recent years, each of 0.1% counts about 2.7 billion, and compared with a discussion about the financial affairs of the rural society, you have to ask: "What has changed? On page 18. 135 reports changes in financial spending. It refers to a further 10.3 billion dollars, one of the primary fees of 14.3 billion, and the focus of the government is up to 12 billion. In some strange way, the combination of this was that there were changes in budgets that were not available to the development of the budget of 13.6 billion. These numbers don't match. I don't know where they're coming from or what it's all about is the government's focus and what they're accounting for. It's very complicated, and it's hard to go over this, especially in the short time we have. There's a lot of things I would've wanted to pick up, but I don't have time to do it because it's about to be done. I'll have to come back to that later. I wanted to point out at the end that I think it's ironic what was being done the other day, taking a loan from the euro. I think it's a little ironic that the independence party administration, forwards, and left greener is taking a euro loan. I don't really know why, especially because of the budget bill, we've got a hell of a lot of reality going on. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure it would be a good idea to make use of them some of the crowns or the currency reserves to work on this. But more later, it'll have to be, because it's a long, boring matter to work in a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u44	Madam President. I must begin, though there are not many new members in the hall, to congratulate new members of the council. Of course, I hope to get along well with all of them. It's a fun job. It's always nice to meet new people. I think we have a great chance of getting together on a wide range of subjects. I think it helps. Of course, this financial bill takes a good first step. I said before the election, when we were discussing with voters what we wanted to do, that it was clear, no matter who took power after the election, that it would never all be solved in the first year. You can certainly say that not everything is solved in this financial bill. But I think it's a good first step. It seems to me that many people in the government stand look different on the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson speaks of the independence party as having nothing in the bill, none in the government covenant, during the period of crisis. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson says that the left of the green was totally attached to the Independence Party and had little or nothing to do with it. Clearly, there are differences in both the covenant and the bill. It's just normal. The total budget is estimated to be around 800 billion next year. Of these, more than 200 apply to health care and the same in social, housing and insurance matters. We're increasing the mix, so we're going to do it. This, of course, is even more clear in the budget. In this financial bill, there is a change in policy from the last discussion we had on the budget. We're adding to and strengthening social infrastructure. 15 billion, though many people wanted to see more, including me, are a lot of money. We prioritize what was called for, at least When I was discussing with voters, health systems, education systems, transportation, sexual abuse reforms, the language technology that we place considerable money in, etc. It's just a fraction, of course. We also talked about older people, their ideals, their circumstances, and their desperate circumstances. I tried hard not to ask them to come together because they are often done, and that is not necessarily normal. Microenergy pensioners have fallen behind. We know that. It's no secret. We want to make improvements in harmony with their interests. This is shown in the government covenant. Change is required. We're going to have a conversation with the Quantum Community and Developmental Help, for they've called after a direct consultation with the government without having more people at the table, as they may have tried. We've also said that what was put on the tip of one of the older citizens was raising the holiday goal. It's done now. It is one of these first steps. It's not like it's all over when this bill gets legal for New Year's. It's just a first step. We're going to revise the premises, i.e. The government's support, as was seen at the chairman of the VGannan of the day, so that he can make better use of young and earn less money. That vision will appear in our financial program. We need time to visualize it, we've talked about the support not being used as we would have liked to those we would've wanted him to be the best. Therefore, to find out which way is best for us, we need breath together. This does not mean that it is referred to a future that is not soon to come. Of course, it is not possible to wait for anything in particular for a long time. There's been quite a talk here about the child damages. What is changing is being shifted up to set the thresholds, resulting in the failure of the rest, which has, unfortunately, been the case during the past few years. These bills are going to go out. Would I have liked to put more into it? Yeah, sure, that's not a question. As if in so many other places, I would have wanted to put more money on it. We're partners, of course. We need time to determine how we will achieve all our key priorities together. I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm going to experience that someday there's going to be a financial bill that everyone likes, either in here or in the community. Not to be overlooked, however, is that what we are doing, whether in the medical system, in the educational system, in what is done to reduce the ability of patients and other such activities, benefits all, including those who are lazy in the community. Of course, this is part of the infrastructure we want to build up and do. Mental - health services are issues that were extremely much discussed during the campaign and during the past few years. It was, in effect, where I came to a meeting and said, " You have to do something about mental health. ' That's what we're doing. Adding extra money to mental health. It's important. A respectable president. Of course, there's a lot of things missing here, as I'm saying. Yet, we are putting in considerable amounts of money that we can be proud of, whether it is 400 million because of sexual abuse or 1,700 million to the environment or what it is now. Still, we are paying off debt, and we are going to do so. It's responsible to do that. It is not as if there is one thing you cannot do without doing another thing, as I have been pleased to say in this discourse. That's what we're trying to do. And I've also said that if you can't right now, when you can't really pick up the state's population trying to get into the infrastructure that's been starving for a very long time, trying to meet people wherever they stand in society, you can never do that. But it can't be done in one step, that's perfectly clear. As a result, some are disappointed. But I also hope that, as I am now serving on a budget committee, the only woman in a poorly divided body would be able to make some changes in the bill. I think it's necessary. It is not unusual to believe that something fell between a ship and a dock, as is said when working so fast. Whether it's small things or big things that we're getting together on a budget to do, I don't know. At any rate, I think we need to consider various factors. All of us receive a variety of suggestions on something different. I think we need to take some of the things we trust to do now. I don't think I have to say much more about this. I'm as happy as I can be with this bill according to the circumstances we faced in winning it. Of course, that would take a short time, much too short. But I think it'll improve the council and we'll make sure that we pay for Christmas on an acceptable budget bill, though it's never gonna be that much like everyone. There will never be a bill like that here, unfortunately. I am positive and glad that we are reaching out to make up for something that some may consider to be pennies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u45	A respectable president. Not all solved in the first year - I suppose that's what. A senator knows that the accompanying copy refers to a plan to 2020, so there are figures that change from 2018 to 2018. There are increases in some places, such as the Ministry of Presidency, Foreign Affairs, Developmental Support, Social Affairs, Health Care, and certain things. It is possible to monitor the budget of the government to 2020 in the financial Summit. Criticism is probably all about that whole. Yes, not everything can be solved in the first year, but the criticism points not to that year but to the whole body as it appears. I mentioned before the OECD average in academic terms. According to this leaflet, there is an increase in 2019 and no 2020; however, to reach the 2020 target. It indicates that the rise will have been reached by 2019, at least that's how I understand it. There are also a number of lower 2019 and 2020, e.g. reduces overall housing support by 2 billion. Growth rates decrease by 2.4 billion compared to 2017. I just think it's only natural to be critical of the overall, not just the 2018 numbers. I also want to know what I want to know. A senator means that she hopes that the budget will improve in the efforts of the council. In what ways might the budget improve, considering that the government has just submitted it? She put a lot of work into it, but in a short time to get it into good shape, and she has plans to 2020 on how to spend money in various media areas. What may improve?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u46	I thank you for your answer. I wondered if he thinks the bill is so great that it doesn't have to change; I don't necessarily expect it to happen. Of course, it's as if he knows - we've been working together on a financial committee - that changes have been made to a prime station; I think every time, nothing incompetent, but always something. Let's just see if there's any change, both from the greater part and from the smaller parts, that can return something. When we begin to discuss whether or not something has fallen between a ship and a dock that was not meant to be on this riverscript - it must be said as it is in itself; I don't think anyone, although built on a foundation, can deny it. Regarding the copy, we also know that the national budget of a new government will be involved in the publication to which funds will be submitted in the next year. Then ministers will have their way of life, and they will likely see how they would set their own standards. That won't happen in the whole of ten days, we know that. That's why it's a plan, as it shows. Of course, the copy will change as we discuss it in a financial committee. It's a plan we're putting out here. I believe that Ministers will make their mark, both with the contributions of a budget plan and when it comes to the next budget, of course, as always, with an updated follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u47	President. I was asking about the conviction of a senator, what she meant, and what would improve in the treatment of the council. What does she find interesting and may be able to do better? Also, I'd like to ask why. A senator on financial policies and financial agendas in connection with official financial laws that require funding to be based on policy and plan and that these budgets are not submitted to current and existing policies and programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u48	Madam President. I wouldn't have had it like this. It's just a very simple matter. For the most part, I stood by those laws, but not all of them. I was one of the few, I think, who didn't do it at the time because I thought that there were certain problems between them and that still counts. I don't think the law has assumed that there is a vote here every year. Although it's said that you're hiding behind the election situation here, it's part of it naturally. The financial policy is presented to show what the budget is based on, although its policy will not be approved. Of course, we need to somehow get through a one - year cycle of new public finances. We haven't done it yet. I'm hoping we'll be able to live by the law on donations and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u49	Madam President. I'm sure the president will forgive the one standing here, how confused I must listen to what I have to say. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir speaks of the budgetary bill of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, after listening to it speak of many other financial bills in a government position. And there's the sky and the ocean between them. Senator. Hv. A senator speaks of this bill as a good first step. Got it. A senator will make a good first step, as suggested in the bill, that child damages at 242 yous. K. a month? One of the main equations used by peers worldwide has been to weaken in recent years, and the government of the Jakobsdóttir of Katrín obviously does not intend to strengthen that system. Got it. A senator's first step is not to do anything in interest of interest or repairs? Nothing? Do you give in another important equation that is successfully used and especially in the North countries? Hv. A senator talks about payment, and it's important for the public to cut down health programs; I agree. But it feels bad. For the members of Congress, the first step is that the billion added to the special hospital service at the budget - that is when it is expected that 560 million will bring an increase in the expenditure of patients who attend our most ill - advised hospital service?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u50	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. For a long time, it is possible to argue over what the first steps should be, and we do not necessarily disagree, me and the other. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I would have wanted to do better in many places. I'm not gonna deny it. That's exactly where it is, and you're right next to it. A senator when she says that I was standing here criticizing the first bill. It is. However, I say this about the child damages specifically, so the senator cannot deny that the reference levels are increased to more than the prices, as we know - and why the balance has been changed before. The billions will then be provided now, and the recent process will be stopped. This is my understanding of these aspects of the budget bill, according to the text written there. Whether on a single board or on a certain board, the goal is to reduce the pay factor. It doesn't happen that way. I'll admit it for what? A senator that I hadn't read the exact number she mentioned here, i.e. that these 560 million are due to the increase in currency from our weakest people. So that's something we can look at, I think. It's, for example. One of the things a financial committee can consider if this is the case and whether we can change it right away in some way. There are a lot of things I would have wanted to do differently. I'm not going to go back, though, from the fact that I like the 15 billion people here being added and where they land. There could have been more to be added, as mentioned here, in various ways. But it cannot be overlooked that our cause, my, and our cause. The senator, about the way the money is arranged, was given far too little support to voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u51	Madam President. Hv. A senator speaks of a good first step, as I said before, but the highest. The secretary of finance says that such a step will not be taken in the years to come. Hv. Hence, a senator is happy only with what is being done here, even though she herself has earlier this year recommended the first step to 42 billion in 2018. But is it merely a bit at 15 billion, contenting that disability are still to wait and that the equation devices are still weak? I want to ask you why. A member of the body who is used to legalize the budget: 15 billion is not the amount that often comes together and that has, for example, the same amount. the last time we went through some changes in budget proposals? I ask: Isn't it likely that a change in the budget of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson government would have made some 15 billion changes to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u52	Madam President. I'm going to start by saying that I'm not happy that the poor have to wait; I'm waiting. A senator about not putting words in my mouth. It is not nice to do such a thing. Although I like the first steps in the bill, that doesn't mean that I'm particularly happy with not all things now work up for those underneath, anywhere in the community. That's not a good thing to say. In terms of the changes made between the bills, we can't talk about ◯what and ◯ef◯. The bill of the son of Benedikt Jóhannesson, who was submitted in the fall, was just a bill. It never became a law. We don't know what we, the council, would've done with that bill. [[Up front.]] I criticized it, clearly, and I totally support them. It doesn't matter that I didn't see it coming that there was a bill going through at the government party once. This was shown at a council hall at the time. Let us not forget that there were members of the former administrative body who expressed great opposition to that fact. We can't talk about something that didn't happen. But that means, as the senator pointed out, we may be able to obtain extra coins when discussing the bill. Who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u53	Madam President. A few questions. A senator whose speech seemed to me to have an unnecessary apology. On the second day in a row, we hear a certain apology in the matter of members of Congress and Ministers of the Left Motion, but perhaps it's also because of the highest order. A financial minister was very realistic, and he warned that in the coming years, expenses would not grow as much as they would have hoped. In effect, he said: " Calm down, dear senators of the left green and others, expenses will not increase that much. ' In a sense, I think it's a health sign because there's evidence in this budget for an increase in financial rights. I was at a meeting with all the spokesmen for elections, where we were all asked if the money on the budget could be enough for the bill submitted then, 44 billion. All units except one, Pirantars, let's do it our best, say it's plenty of rest. All major institutions, international institutions and institutions in this country have warned against shrinking the rest. Once the economy has been on a bouldering trip, and we see that there will be a breakdown, we must continue to pay off debts and reduce the State's interest costs. The first question is, Psychological Service, Psychiatry, We're especially happy about it. See what? A member of this field will be supported solely at the expense of institutions or in private areas. The senator of the government consults the experts and bodies outside the institutions? Second of all. Hv. A senator says it will be better between the 1st and 2nd. What does it mean that it can get better? Is it simply an increase in expenses or what does it mean that the bill it will improve between 1 and 2. and the treatment of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not in any excuse to be here at all. I supported this government team, and I support my prime minister for fine works and rely fully on it, as well as on the members of the administrative body, to get our left - green focus to a great degree. I think we're going to do it in good cooperation with our colleagues. I wonder when it happened. A senator speaks of the need to exercise some restraint and to be careful and to be careful, as well as all that has been talked about by the restoration. It has been observed in the case of some of them, before and outside the council, that pay cannot be raised and that only such is very limited. When Should We Build Up? We never seem to be able to build up. It must not be built because it is thin. They must not build up because there is no money. In some way, you can never build wood. You can never do better with people. I view this government as the fact that we're both going to be nice to people, wherever they stand in the community, in the whole country, and to build good infrastructure. You know, about psycho-psychology and psychiatry. Of course, we look at our health care providers primarily, looking at the institutions we have, such as BUGL and other institutions that are involved in children. Of course, that has been a priority. That in itself has not been discussed, at least not within our movements. When I talk about something getting better, I always think that any case that the council is about can change and that will improve, whether in the form of increased expenses or whatever it is. When we talk about budgeting, that's what it's like.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u55	V.E.G. President. It's not easy to listen to the senators here, saying that everything was in coldwash, and then after October 29, everything got better. In the last three to four years, Kingdom spending has increased dramatically. There's been infrastructure, no matter what categories have been involved. Let's get things straight. There have been fine things made in the construction of structures in the past year and year. In the last few weeks, that did not all of a sudden happen. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people getting better in the head of the left green green, growing expenses. Then I simply want to know: Is there a agreement among the board of directors to increase the cost of conversation? It is of utmost importance to know. Secondly, and I will enter it in my speech afterwards, I am interested in asking the highest. Environment Minister on the carbon charges. But I'd like to ask why. A senator who gets the answer, see what. A senator that the carbon pay will go up even further? A 50% increase is being proclaimed. We represented the political parties at a meeting in the Norwegian house where all the members said they were going to stand at the rise in carbon that was announced in a previous bill. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A candidate for the development of carbon bills to work against the climate?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u56	Madam President. It wasn't my word that everything had been in cold water. However, this is how it is, and therefore it is possible. A senator would not refuse to ask for further structure in the infrastructure of the transport system, the health system, the education system would not be there if there were all going well, wouldn't it? If we were with older people and poor people and everyone in a place where everyone would be in a place where they wouldn't be called. Here is our government's first step in doing better, just to be said. I'm not minimizing what's happened before, not at all. It has nothing to do with it. In fact, it is stated in the Mosaic Law covenant and mentioned what has been done in the past. In terms of carbon costs: Yes, I can see them rising, as they come, don't forget. It says it's one of these first steps, but it's about to rise. We're supposed to build the wood so that they can accept it even. that we can start energy exchanges and other activities in a car fleet of some value. [[The president calls.]] But it's not gonna happen either, we're not ready for it all over the country. It's just not like that. Therefore, we need to be careful. And we don't have anything else on the bill that made these things even more difficult, as I did. Criticism, increase in oil, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u57	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this with 1st. bill for budgeting before 2018. Since this is my first speech at this council, I want to start by taking this opportunity and wishing for a new start. Congrats and votes for members of the Parliament. Then I'd like to wish for a new highest. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, performance at work. I support this government with my whole mind, normal. The focus of the government, which we have seen in a comprehensive government contract, is reflected in the budget or the first steps, as we have discussed. First of all, I'd like to get to the general tone and focus. Governments and basic conditions. When I give a basis, it can be said to be economic, as expected in the bill itself, and to some extent political. I refer to the government contract. Secondly, I'd like to discuss this bill as a member of the Committee why. The legal committee and the work waiting for the Committee to study the bill and, in the context of the progress of public financial laws, put it on the job. V.E.G. The financial and economic secretary Bjarni Benediktsson well considered economic grounds in his history and the main focus found in the bill between the budget years. There is in itself no reason but to celebrate what it says. V.E.G. A government has taken an important step here in a stronger government society promised in a government covenant. I give additional medical and welfare funding, health care and hospital services, both in the capital and in the country, increased revenues for pharmaceuticals, payment on dental expenses for the elderly and the poor, increases in the income markets and the income of the elderly. Education is being done, indeed, and contributions to both university and high school are increasing, with the goal of improving the quality of study, which must always be satisfying goals. We'll look at a reversal in transport and communication, but of course, the goal at some point for the Generals must be to respect the transport programme approved by the Council each year. There is talk of itself and larger than 1st. ... abundant. At the same time as this is certainly adding up expenses and meeting a cumulative investment need, it is emphasised on preserving the recent economic successes of the people. It is very important to look for positive results. The bill accounts for 35 billion remaining total balance, approximately 1.3% of gross domestic product. However, a positive element of 94 billion illustrates the importance of continuing to reduce debt and interest costs and thus may further add to investments and well - beings. At the same time, it is important that economic growth be here sustainable and continuing economic prices. Clearly, much effort is being made on the knees of a time frame awaits the council. The budget committee, covering the bill, scourging the number of causes and related cases, welcoming visitors, and calling for more information. For example, since January 1, 2016, government laws that have been valid include long - term thinking, stability, and discipline on financial development. A more comprehensive approach, as reflected in Article 11. these laws, and more emphasis is on improving government success and monitoring for the implementation of public funds. In particular, we see in the legal structure set out in Article 4. these laws to which the government, after its formation, will shape financial policy to five years, which the Minister will no later submit to the General Assembly than with the contributions of the bill we will discuss here. I think we're gonna do what. All council members must show the position that comes from a frequent election for tolerance. I cannot help but agree with the discussion that took place between the highest levels. Secretary of the budget and what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. However, there is also a new budget, expected in March, or no later than April 1, as required by the law, until the next five years. It's based on that policy. Thus, all the economic background has been maintained, as has the presence of the Generals with increased emphasis on the monitoring program. As a result, big increases are focused on the effectiveness assessment using this policy-making tool. It is important to consider now the debate of budgets that the work ahead of us; financial management and compliance, the assessment of progress, and, in particular, the benefits of budgeting, and the financial rights to compromise and lawsuits, are just as important as the self - examination. Part of the budget and then the council all over the discussion. In this way we can improve and to the extent that we can make more efficient use of money and work toward a more targeted priorities, which must always be our ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u58	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the present question. Chairman of the budget board's work at the end of the short time until the intended bill is approved. How can you tell? A senator sees that we committees can get the information and the context that we need this brief period of time to know what our decision to make in terms of budgeting and projects related to the budget bill. We've had this experience when we quickly put the bills in our hands that we end up with the wrong cost food or make mistakes in our numbers. Earlier this year, such treatment led to a mismanagement of 2.5 billion per month, which had to be corrected retrospectively and in all kinds. I just wanted to know how to get the best of this brief period of time to prevent such a mistake, especially since I've noticed that among the bills completed in December there is a budget bill 2017. By the law on public finances, we are not supposed to make financial contributions because the reserves are supposed to cover what is lacking. I don't fully understand why we're supposed to go to a fundraiser, especially if we're going into something now that's leading to failure and ends up in the wrong amount, and that's because it's been done in a hurry - that we wouldn't get into financial work again in 2018. This: Has there been a punitive budget set up that leads to a need to go into budgets instead of just reimburse the reserve?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the question is the Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví. You know, about work anyway. First, I'd like to say that we're still meeting, but after this opposition, we're gonna run over to committee stage and have our first meeting where the material is going over the time plan ahead and the work of the Committee. I'm excited to say and point to the words of the highest. Secretary of finance when he spoke of the system's success. I think it's late for the council and whatnot. A financial committee performs another achievement. It's a little bit of a time. But we do a lot of work and be careful to welcome guests and try to study this bill as much as possible under these circumstances. I have full faith that we will reach the country in it. You know, about the reserve, about the money. I agree with what. A senator that this is one of the advantages of this code of public financial laws. Both are reserves for lawsuits that the Ministers can, if there's any variation, work with, and then there's one larger reserve for all the media. It should reduce the tendency, the taking of financial abnormalities. Never, then, could there ever be some even greater variation that needs to be handled? But into the future, I'd like to agree with that. A senator that at some point it should be past.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u60	President. I specifically ask because, in my opinion, last council had a significant lack of financial control, in part because of the election coming, but also because when we received reports and information about weaknesses that were in the budget, they had to contend with the weaknesses as if they were making financial contributions. There were no explanations, such as to be in accordance with official financial laws, what a minister pledged to do to deal with the weaknesses of the discussion, such as drugs and medical products, the affairs of immigrants, and the like. Even though we received a budget in December of a previous film analysis that called on these weaknesses that later appeared, the labour laws came in without these imaging analysiss. The Foreign Office and Internal Affairs knew of the weaknesses and apparently planned to repair them, but the council had just passed new laws e.g. foreigners who gave authority to take certain measures that might be costly but did not explain at the same time when they introduced the weaknesses that they were using the authority they received. I'm concerned that in the coming year, we will face a similar challenge with regard to financing because we're in such short-term time and we don't get the perspective and the context of the budget bill in order to know in advance what we're going to do next. Then, as in December of the past, we face a problem that was some kind of staging analysis that we did not have a basis for evaluating, but we learned better as we went along with a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u61	V.E.G. President. I'll thank you later for the answer. Senator. Hv. paritaprevir In effect, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson makes the framework of public finances. Change in time, change in procedure, and change the setting give us reason to work more firmly, with more long - term thoughts. There is always the danger of saying too much about the current practice, which was within the framework of the current legal economy. It may have something to do with the political bitch, and we're also responsible for it ourselves; frequent elections mean political instability. And what does this reveal? This is reflected in our failure to carry out the procedure that we themselves perform. That's pathetic. I hope we can live through that, both the Council and the Council. A budget board, working within this framework and getting into the process of financialism - financial planning and budgets that are then based on it - so that we can develop a real diagnostic tool and a set of guidelines to make the discussion more firm when it is conducted on budgets at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u62	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for a fine speech and a good overview, I think it offers a good promise of the work that lies ahead of him in the budget. It's true that the election offers a number of things, including... For the sake of these budgets, and I reiterate it to our attitude in reciprocate that this is a hot cocktail in the way of increasing expenses and then proclaiming tax reductions. History tells us it's not a good economic policy. But that's another story. I want to ask you why. Senator three questions. I can't figure out what the government's policy is about collecting resources. You need to revise the resource charge on the seaside, and I'd like to hear about it. A senator can see that coming. It must have been discussed within the board of directors how to develop the resource costs when it comes to fishing. The carbon charges, they offer a 50% increase. On the other hand, I've heard the highest. The secretary of finance says that there will be no further rise during the announcement of the left - green senators that this is the correct beginning of a certain journey. Third, it's the southwestern corner transportation. We are both council members of the Southwestern District, of the most important district, the largest district, i.e. Of the most populous, Kragans. I would like to hear about it because the need is up to 70 billion in this area to improve new projects. There is hardly any increase in new transport now between years, in this area. Since then, the highest. Transporter rule out further inspection of other routes. How can you tell? A representative of transportation in the southwest corner developed according to this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Her Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter is a huge question. First, I want to say, regarding the maintenance levels of public financial and financial resources displayed in this bill, that it is endeavoring to continue in balance and economic stability. They are returning a positive outcome and are going to continue paying off debts and interest. For the resource fees, I'd like to say first, it's long time to install it in a constitution. Well, let's start with that, and then I think there's going to be some cross-cutting agreement, and I think we need to consult the sector we're talking about, whether it's the sea route, as in this case, or the tourism or other articles. In every area where resources and currency are involved, the discussion, both in the political and professional sectors, must be more and more targeted than ever. This has always ended up in some knot here at the high Council. The rise in carbon - that's lower than the price available. But it is closely correlated with climate and the goals set in the context of lowering these carbon levels. I think that's just a very positive thing. I later oppose transportation in the Southwestern district.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u64	Madam President. I want to express my special pleasure with these answers at times. A senator, although I do not necessarily agree with him on the fact that the maintenance of this financial bill is sufficient. At one time, 44 billion were restored. Now there are 35 people, and there is talk of improving conversation, so the grip is certainly just relaxing. Still, we share this common vision. We need to be careful while we're on the inside. The Constitution - I want to celebrate it especially as a boy. A senator said, this is key. In a sense, I missed it at the top of my philosophy. Yesterday, the prime minister is not given a specific view of how we will change the constitution. We have to start getting the resource rules into the constitution. This is a key to working on the cross - political reconciliation that we need to achieve, and we were working on during the last assembly, where all the classes were called to the table. All are expected to live up to the responsibility of making peace. Like what? A senator correctly mentioned that this will be done only in consultation with the article. That is a key to the fishing route as such that we begin to bring these matters to the earth. It can be done. Already reevaluation of the fishing costs lies ahead, and I just have an opportunity to use that review in an effort to make peace. At least we should try. I think this tone is very positive on the part of a member of the board. The carbon charges. After listening to him and what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and at the same time the words in the speech of the highest court. Secretary of finance, I can't overlook the fact that there is a certain feeling that there is no unity within the board on the development of the carbon account. That may be my question. Senator: How does he measure his status? How does he visualize evolution? Is a unity within the board of governments to what level of carbon charges should be developed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and the questions that are very important but perhaps not so that I can answer them in this brief period of time as I would like. What I left behind in a previous answer was transportation in the Southwestern district. It's good to know to have an ally there. In these words, it is being celebrated and celebrated and made a toast to potential discrepancies in Krysuvik. [[City line.]] [[Up front.]] This financial bill is introduced if we take Hafnarfjörður Iceland, a phone morning that has been dangerous, and a massive traffic node at Kapokika. Of course, it is very urgent to complete Eagle Road through Kopavog. And then the traffic through Mosfellstown has become enormous, and through the Christmas Passway, the traffic there, both transport and tourists. You're absolutely right. A senator, there are many things to do. [[Up front.]] I think the location of the transport program will be used to complete this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u66	A respectable president. We'll discuss budgets here for 2018. It may not surprise me that I am not going to do the material of this financial bill much to talk about. There is a little in line with the budget bill submitted by the last government in the fall, although with the most pronounced variations, there is an increase in expenses. But the priorities of this financial bill and the increase there are in line with the focus of the seminary. We continue to see considerable emphasis on the structure of the welfare system, continued increases in social security donations, increases in educational donations. Everything is very good and enjoyable. What I'm most worried about, and as I've been doing in my past case, is the maintenance level of the state's budget, which is both considerably less in this budget than in what was proposed in the fall. But worse still, the financial policy presented along with this financial bill is that as the term goes on and on, it will be further reduced and, as soon as the next year, significantly more so. V.E.G. The secretary of finance asked before which case 5 billion was involved, or 10 or the 20th. Of course they do, for it is at this point in the economy that we have always lost until now, always lost our grip, just at one of the most important things in the economy. If we look at the experience of the collapse, the shelfmeters of reports about its causes and consequences, it repeatedly shows the lack of adequate maintenance of financial expansion. We have taken steps to correct this situation. We've formed a special National Advisor Council. We've set up a special financial Council. We've made a law on public financial matters. In fact, they were criticized at the time for the rules of living there that seldom amounted to harnessing the government's affairs right at this point, during the assembly. Therefore, supportive measures included CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 were discussed that none of the precautions there were to be found had taken at the high levels in the terms of the budget between 2005 and2007. The tremendous irresponsible spending policy that they were following would all be included in the regulations found in the government laws on public finances. Unfortunately, all that seems to harness the budget is simply how much money is in the box. Hence, it is disturbing to see that now and again the same mistake is being repeated. Why is this important? We talk about the competitive conditions of our export roads, especially on holidays. It is exactly the government budget that is pressing on these same competitive conditions in these times. When government affairs fail to take their place in economic management, growth is bigger and more aggressive. It has repeatedly been pointed out and repeatedly warned, but unfortunately, we do not intend to learn much from it. Perhaps that's why we have the environment in Iceland that our export work branches are primarily designed for resource reasons, because it has not been supported by the unstable economy of our productions, such as technical and knowledge companies. It's always the same problem that they companies have, and we're going to repeat that game over and over again. At the same time, we talk about the importance of promoting and investing in knowledge, that our future prospects lie in the fourth industrial revolution. If we are to make practical application of the opportunities of the fourth industrial revolution, we need to first master our own economy, to create stability for those companies that are just supposed to be able to grow and thrive on the basis of the fourth industrial revolution. My concern is devoted primarily to these factors. But it is worth keeping in mind, too, when we discuss the financial bill we have here. It is interesting to observe the exchange between senators left green and forwarding parties, who once spoke highly of the financial policy of the previous government and the financial bill, talking about starving policy, but who are now following a slight change of bill just a few weeks later. It is not new, however, that opinions change rapidly between government and government. It is interesting to see that this is happening at a magically difficult time right now. But it is good to keep in mind when we can build up, when to promote the community's support, that, if this financial bill plans become realized, the expenses of the state's budget have increased by 110 billion from the 2016 budget. It is, I suppose, that there is no longer any longer than a 16% increase in the expenses of the state's funds. These expenditures have been spent primarily on the welfare system, to the educational system. The priorities there have been excellent. It can be said that both the last government and the government before that, it was the main emphasis that was found in this expansion and that it should be welcomed. But we also need to be on guard, especially during these times when economic growth has even increased, and we further warn of the danger of overfishing. The late bank did so last yesterday, and warned against maintaining growth unchanged, including showing concern for the position of government funds and their lack of self - control. We can expect them to be expected by the growth of the Federal Republic of Nations when financial policy and financial law will be approved. It is also important to keep in mind, though, when discussing the financial situation, that we do not solve all problems just with increasing expenses. Therefore, I would find it interesting to have a word here with three ministers, who have just one great opportunity to do better with the financial resources that are already spent on the system. The first is the highest. Secretary of health. The surgeon has repeatedly discussed that the health - care system's problems are not just solved with increased financial expenditures. Organizational adjustments need to be looked forward to more efficiency and a better organization. I'd be interested to hear the health minister's opinions there. The same could be said about our education system. We look for ways to balance expenses on the university system to the sector in OECD and the North countries. I'd like to hear some food. A minister of education is about where we are exactly in that comparison today, since the figures we discuss are about to be four years old. Much has been changed since then; both have been strengthened, the expenses to the party have been increased, and the number of students has been reduced. I suppose these standards are different and more favorable today than they were then. It is equally important, though, that we look at how we carry out our education policy through the financing system or the calculus that we contribute to the education system. This is true both in college and in high school, where we know that the projects and technology that we want to focus on are much more expensive. However, governments have never really followed their policy in trying to promote these factors by providing funding and changing the formulas so that they increase school success in promoting this aspect. Third, there is tremendous concern about how much disability has increased in recent years. There are all signs that they will continue to do so. That's why I'd like to hear the highest perspective. Social and Equal Opportunities: How can we perform and what adjustments can we do in the present system to increase the incentive to work among people and be more effective in returning people to the workforce? That's as important as it is. It does not matter just for the financial cost, it is of utmost importance to the survival and quality of the people on disability, how we can promote the disability of the biofuel system to work. I'd be interested to hear a minister's point of view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. In response to the questions I will react to them, a member of the Parliament gave a good speech and thanked them for the questions I will answer. The questions were large, subject to an overall vision that I find very important to discuss here. It is hoped that we will have an opportunity to discuss it with other discussions at the council, for it is indeed a good indication that we will solve not only health problems but also more expenses. I agree with a surgeon regarding this. And I believe that it is not only the governments that agree on it but the politics in general, that it is long time to identify individual aspects of the health system, what their role is, and then their interaction. It is clear that the Icelandic health system, which is a very good, strong system, is a significant overlap in tasks, doubles - anywhere, as well as deserts. Surely we are not making the most of the money we have between our hands. However, according to an appeal number of health expenses, i.e. Compared to gross domestic product, Iceland has an average OECD, or has been the case. The mean of 2016 is 9%. I think we should wonder how high this percentage should be. The signing of Kári's Stefánsson expected 11%. On the other hand, if the dog. A senator would want to tear it down too, you might also ask how high, by normal means, the expense department or the patient's involvement should be in good health. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister's answers. What I wondered, in order to call for a slightly clearer understanding of the opinions and policy of a minister when it comes to reorganization of the health system, is that in a recent McKinsey report prepared for the Land Hospital, one of the obvious weaknesses of this system was that it was really missing. We'd have too much silo thought, so to speak, i.e. the support of the system is isolated; health care does not speak to specialists or hospitals; hospital services do not speak well to specialists and aging services; and so on. There, the idea is made that in some way a joint administration, simply, over the health system, and possibly under the leadership of a minister or a Ministry. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. A health minister in this regard. There is a wide difference in opinion within the board on the role of our private contribution in the health system, but regardless of our attitude, there is a fact that between 353/40% of the financial resources that flow to our health each year to the special institutions, or business, that is out of public interest in one way or another. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister of health whether she intends to change or continue a similar course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u69	President. First of all, what are some ideas? A member of a joint board of directors of the Icelandic Health Organization: In view of the Icelandic Management Board, this government is in the hands of a health minister at any given time with the advice the Minister has access to through the governor's office and other such. I want to inform the senator and the Senate that, of course, important consultations are made with the director of the Land Hospital and the key institutions there. Of course, this must also be part of a long - term health policy. The other question. A senator was involved in the interaction of private and public service. It is clear that during recent years, changes have been made in the way that this has been at the expense of public service. Its contributions have increased by 3% at the same time as the private service has increased by 57%. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that the main focus of the Minister here will be in the interests of the public system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. I reiterate that in the years to come, I consider it one of our most important projects at the council, both smaller parts and more, to improve health efficiency. Clearly, in the years to come, we have great health challenges. The people are getting old. There's a lot of cost. Qualifications are increasing, technology is turning forward, drugs being more perfect than animals at the same time. It is clear that, in fact, there are no limits to the budget that the system will make. I think it's only gonna be a matter of what we can do. Hence, it is of utmost importance that we too think in an efficient and purposeful way to make our system better and more efficient so that it serves the people better than at the same time does not provide the wealth of the State as it would otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his mouth. The questions are urgent. It's quite clear that this government is going into a major education campaign. We are increasing our contributions to the university, and already the University of Iceland's university council has expressed great satisfaction with our growing emphasis on achieving the OECD average, i.e. financial contributions to each student. He asks where these matters are now. We've been doing it in the Ministry so much that we've already extrapolated to the year 2020. True, this does not appear in the accompanying copy. My people at the Ministry tell me they're going to update the numbers in the copy. But it looks like we can achieve this OECD average with the money we're going to distribute. The emphasis? How are we going to get into this? What we will do is give increased emphasis on teaching, research, scientific work, and international cooperation. Another thing we want to do, and preparation is to review the algorithm to make it more efficient. We're in cooperation with the Netherlands and Norway authorities, taking into account what's going on there. In high school, we have an extra 400 million. Headliness will be put on strengthening industry and to-do. I think there's a great need for that. We'll see that the graduates of industrial and industrial education in Iceland are much fewer than in Norway. This is what we want to work for, and this is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Education minister of answers to your answers. I wonder, when it comes to government calculus and policy, that the experience of those years has been that even when efforts have been made to encourage young people to go to trade and toil, they seem to be selling out quite quickly, i.e. The funding in the models does not mean that the schools can receive students who are interested in attending this study. In fact, they are transferred to a book study, which they are not interested in and may even break out of school. Of course, it's a serious matter when we start talking year after year, and even decade after decade, about the importance of developing industrial and technical studies, not following financial support. That is why I would like to hear a little more of the Minister's ideas on how to reevaluate the models and how governments intend to follow their policy in this regard. Of course, education cannot be discussed without looking to the basic system's problem today, especially when you are looking to a basic and high school, which is simply a lack of teacher. We see that a study application has crashed. About half of the educated teachers operate today. I am designed to usually try to find the obvious reasons, and I don't think they are very complicated. The pay is simply too low. The question is, How can we achieve a solidarity of change in that area without disrupting the workforce? I think that is one of the most important tasks in education, that it is a clear benefit to educate to teach, and that we can settle the changed order of teachers in the labour market salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's comments and thoughts on how we can improve Icelandic school activities are highly appreciated. For the industry and the engineering, we would like to take advantage of the algorithm so that there is a real possibility of increasing the number of students in industry and to-do. That's a clear policy of this government. We want to do this. Because one of the things we see, and the most characteristic of Icelandic school work, is the elimination. It seems that there is much more to it than to develop in the North countries. I believe ourselves that one explanation for this is that we do not have enough diversity in this regard. I'll go for it. Regarding my teacher's card, I wholeheartedly agree. Senator. This is one of the greatest challenges we face. The society that cannot arrange for teachers to be in its own way requires careful self - examination and self - examination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister once more answers. I realize that it's the best I can do. Minister's recently on the job. I cannot help but encourage her and wish for her success at work in this enormously important class of subjects. Here, we simply have to do better. It's empty to talk about ambition in our education system, in our education policy, if we don't put up with the necessary funds and if we don't have the basic need for the system, which is human teaching positions. That's extremely important. We all know of the opportunities that exist in the educational world and in the higher level of education in the coming years and decades, so it is extremely important that we deal with the problems we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for such reflections and speculations. I agree with his vision. It's extremely important, and it's the fact that the growth in micro-life support is beyond all our predictions. Among other things, I came into this conversation yesterday with the prime minister's conference talk. There are also concerns that there are quite a lot of young people there. Young people who come in there because of mental, mental, or mental illness are particularly growing. I think it's extremely important that we go to work that focuses on a system change. We need to continue working on the work programme that has been under way and to relate to the view that all can have an active share in society. It is vital that we do so, and at the same time, we need to review our social security system, as was done in the case of the elderly. It stresses this government, and in the budget bill there is a special chapter. At the same time, the government must enter and discuss with the workers of the labour market, setting a good example for itself by creating part - time jobs and jobs so that these individuals can enter the workforce, those who trust in them. I think there is also a considerable amount of work ahead of it that, at the same time, a change of attitude is needed in the public and in the business world. This is clearly one of the major topics of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs during this election period. I could have come in on a few more points that I have to do in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I would like to make it clear first that I am pleased to hear the emphasis of Ministers on the continuing development of the work programme, i.e. that we change the current energy-based assessment assessment assessment system to the work-evaluable assessment. I think it is always much more positive to evaluate people according to their ability than the ability to use it. I began to realize the doubts that have been found among the desperate and of their interest groups in this system and wanted to hear the views of a minister on how to meet them. For one thing, it should be noted that the share of work in the Icelandic labour market is unusually high compared to that of our neighbors. I think the problem is not there but how we can improve the flexibility of the labour market when it comes to individuals with impaired employment capacity and how we can build a more efficient support and incentive system for employment. It is not a simple subject, in fact, extremely complex and delicate. However, it is also clear in my mind that the current arrangement and policy is completely taken to the skin, in fact, bankrupt. So it is extremely important that we do well here. I'd like to hear some ideas. Minister on how to achieve participation in the labour market and to stimulate the promotion of employment activities there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u77	A respectable president. Thanks for that. We're gonna go for a second. A senator argues that this is not an easy task. I've already talked to all the main executives in the industry about this very thing and the doubts in both sides that we can get together on work assessments. I believe that even if professional leaders are willing to organize part-time work, etc. a certain impulse is needed there so that it can actually walk. I don't have the answer. But I can sense exactly the same thing as that. A senator comes in here as far as he's concerned. This work has been going on at the Ministry and will put tremendous emphasis on the conversation between the stakeholders who arrive early in the New Year. Then, of course, there is another subject in a large discussion that is why all these young people are coming in there in the first place. Is there anything in the support system to these early youths that causes them to keep growing? [[The president calls.]] That discussion is much bigger and perhaps even more important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I agree with you. We need to look to the fore. Building up, for example, is very important. mental health. We need to intervene much sooner when tragedy strikes, whether spiritual or physical, in order to back it up as soon as possible and when people are ready and confident that they will actually begin working out. The problem will only be solved in a complete way, considering the causes of disability and its consequences, as well as how we can revise the microenergy system itself that I think is of enormous importance. Today, it is highly discouraging to do business with a dollar in return to a dollar's degree. We simply have to put first things in order to change them. It must be like others that they see results and benefits from their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u79	A respectable president. The second year in a row, we work on the budget in a very special and challenging situation. Last year, these were unique circumstances; there was no more active object; it was based on the bill that then the government had won. We will now discuss the budget of December 15, just two weeks before the year; a bill submitted by a new section at the Council; a bill partly based on a bill of government that left the government just after it was submitted in September without even reaching its end. The new budget bill presented here has some ideas set aside on the budget bill in September. We've covered it far and wide today. I'm not going to count it up, I'd like to go some other way below. However, it is clear in these circumstances that the work of the legal committee in the next few days is a race for time. Change of focus is on the health bill, which is greatly improved. It is important to keep in mind that the work has been done in recent years, i.e. that additional contributions will not be made unless it is clearly defined for which to spend. There I refer to counseling those who have worked with the Icelandic government in the management of the Land Hospital and in what a surgeon has pointed to in the past few months and years. It may be helpful to consider in the historical context how the State's expenses have developed in recent years. When the development of the 2010 GDP budget, and with the newly produced budget bill 2018, is examined, without interest, the interest rates and irregularities of disabled persons brought to the countryside in 2011, it was nearly 449 billion but will be less than 711 billion dollars. in 2018. The increase is 58% and at the same time, it may be estimated that the increase in the product information is about 25%. Thus regular spending has increased by 149 billion K, i.e. about 33% absolute value in eight years. It will seem unlikely that such an increase will have some ancient precedent. In this context, the last two years are very special. Before this year, I recall that about 8.5% of the budget was passed in December last year, before 2017; actual government repercussions. I think it's similar now, so it's two years without condemnation; it's maybe one year before they're very few. It is estimated that the State's debt at the end of the year will be nearly 900 billion, and one of the principals of the government is going to continue paying off debt and paying off interest costs. However, it has been suggested that it is necessary for the State to owe some 400 billion to support an active bond market in Iceland. So there may be 500 billion dollars that can be paid off from the State to go down to the level that is spoken of as marketally as a basis for maintaining an active bond market. However, it should be noted that the government's unfunded Penitentiary is today nearly 700 billion, with a large project in the years to come in terms of the government. On the contrary, it should be pointed out that the government fund of valuable property resides in the banking system. Here in the country, commerce has been a positive factor. 14 quarters, i.e. followed by Q4 2014. We have been experiencing an extremely favorable time in the foreign trade of the nation. Travel services have come in and played a leading role. In recent years, we have experienced remarkable growth in the comings of foreign tourists to Iceland, which has had a tremendous impact on the economy. It has not been so many years since nearly all the news of the nation's product exchange was presented, but little was looked to at the service level; it was always negative and the numbers were low compared to the trades. Since 2010 the service balance has become more positive each year, so it can be said that in recent years there has been a transition to the national currency. In Iceland's national projections for the year 2017-2019, which the bank published under the name Economics as a means to fly, it's not a concern for the pilot, that's the name of the bank's National Prediction -- it's also called the Bank. up to 45% of the country's total currency revenues this year are estimated. As far as I'm concerned, tourism has become one of the main causes in Iceland's national farming, if not the main. In this context, from the end of November onward, I would like to mention the economics of the Lands Bank. You can find an interesting picture showing the remarkable changes in historical context that have occurred in the past eight to nine years when the percentage of exports of land production are examined. For decades this ratio has been about 30%, but in recent years it has grown constantly every year. So that ratio was about 45% in 2016. That this development is a major reason for the changes that have taken place in the nation's economy in recent years, if not the major. This new reality may have had a key role in strengthening the nation's financial resources. In this context, you should determine how large and important aviation is. The Icelandic fleet has doubled since 2010, the year when Eyjafjokulljokul. At that time Icland was equipped with 12 planes and Iceland Express 14. Today, Icelanda and Wew Air have just some 50 commercial aircraft and plans for a considerable increase in the coming years. Here's a point to consider that approximately In the United States, there are over 30,500,40% of the money paid in transport services is available from the Icelandic air traffic industry. Icelanda and Weow Air transport most of the foreign tourists to Iceland. During the past few weeks and months, there has been an increasing discussion in the community on the systematic risks of flying in the Icelandic economy, as per the National Bank of Iceland's conference in September. In May, we may be able to introduce these issues in the majority opinion of the State budget, actually using other words there. The 2011 report by Oxford Economics on air transport, reported that in 2010, there were estimated to be 6.6% of land production available in this country. Today, people with knowledge believe that there has been a significant rise in recent years. It refers to a total of 12 to 155% of the country's land production in connection with air traffic. It's today's guess. Of course, it is proper to rejoice when things are going well, but at the same time, it is proper to be cautious and critical. So I stress that better research and analysis of the economy are needed on transport factors as well as air traffic. There are very limited data, and by no means the amazing changes and reversals of society's economy associated with these issues over the last eight to nine years. The new reality is in reality, can have, and has had a tremendous impact on government affairs and government laws, as well as on both sides of the income. It is a priority for us who work on a budget board to identify the environment in this country linked to these things. I wanted to come into this because I think it's one of the most important things in the nation's economy, i.e. reaching out to these things; that we have better information, research, and analysis of what the population's actually changing. Then I'm celebrating a new campaign at the euro loan this week. We received the best European loan ever obtained, directly following Fitch's new credit rating last week. Therefore, this will have a tremendous impact on the government funding in the years to come. I'm just finishing my time so I can't go any further. I hope I can get some answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u80	President. On page 18. 132 is referred to as the focus of the new government, more than 12 billion dollars. which are explained as overreaching from the financial framework. But at the same site, there are 13.6 billion, which are in accordance with the modified financial clearances because of a number of budgets that were not available in the processing of financial programmes. I don't really understand these amounts. Why is there a framework of financial programmes if it is not simply an account item where the other and this naturally cost more than expected for some reason, which is explained, as if salary came in, an increase in collective agreements, or something like that were anticipated? It just raises what was approved before. However, the focus is on a new government. The government offers a financial bill that is not in harmony with an agreed financial programme at the General Assembly. It does not obey the order of the Generals. I wondered if we can have the discussion and the explanation more clearly: What is being calculated that covers the framework of financial planning, and what is the addition to the government that goes beyond the box?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u81	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Why is the budget not being adhered to? I thought it was during a discussion in the past that had to do with the problem. A member of the council. Here's a new government. She's setting up financial policy. She puts on a five-year budget plan and then the budget is placed in the contract. Of course, it's just because of election time now that you can't do this in a normal order. I can't answer for special groups on specific pages of a 300 or 400 - page dornanti who just got paid a few weeks ago, but this is just the reason. I'll just give the same answer as I think it once did: We're going to set up a financial policy made by a new government for five years when it takes over. Then we're going to have a five-year national budget. Then we work on the budget, create discipline in the system, and plan to have more financial discipline. I can't answer it any other way than this. This is the main reason. I don't have unique numbers at this time. It may be after a few days working on a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u82	President. I have the same problem with the numbers in my head because there are a lot of them and new ones. I was hoping to get an overview of the budget that would go outside the box and maybe get a little explanation because the senator is on a budget and knows it a little bit better than I, since he is within the board of directors. A lot of talk has now been made about changing practices. At least I feel it's necessary to try to do things the way they should, that the budget is based on a financial agenda based on financial policy. Then it is not normal to start with the budgets that set the tone for financial policy and financial agenda, as I mentioned. Then we do not have the opinion of experts on the economic factors involved in the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u83	A respectable president. The person standing here was appointed to a legal committee some 28 hours ago. It's no longer than that. It's a complicated phenomenon. Even though I've been on a budget since the beginning of the year, it's a new project with new numbers, a new example. My 28 hours in this committee now with this bill in your arms, this dollrant, just doesn't get much further. Public financial laws are an enormously important document and, in effect, a ideologies of how we're going to run this country, the State. Where it is. A senator with me on a financial committee knows that the ideologies of public financial law are that we are going to be more policy-makers, we are going to be a policy-makers for the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To his review of Trausti, my Njáll of Friðbertsson. You may not be able to cover much in ten minutes, let alone after just 28 hours on a financial committee. I'm especially glad to hear what was said in a case. A senator, despite his increased expenses, aims to continue reducing debt, building the interests of others, not sending the bill to future generations, and trying to show responsibilities. Experts, abroad, point out that there must be a lot of maintenance as well as ASI and the sectoral community. So I welcome this tone and certain responsibility of this approach. There are two things I want to ask about. On the one hand, there are material questions about the environment, the carbon charges that are now increasing by 50%. I want to know what I'm thinking. A senator, how he sees the future, how he sees these things develop during the season. We receive conflicting messages on how the carbon charges should be done; perhaps an agreement has not yet been reached within the governments. I'd love to hear what it's like. A senator envisions that carbon charges should develop. Then there are reports of an increase in health care expenses. I can see a health center in a district of which. A senator, a North Eastern district, the National Institute for Health and Hospital in Akureyri - speaks of a lack of increase and support. How can you tell? A senator of the matter comes forward at a council with respect to that institution? Does he see changes in the handling of the legal committee in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u85	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. For a word or two. A member of the National Institute of Health and the Akureyri Hospital - I suppose something has been discussed in the media today - I would like to repeat that this committee had its first meeting at noon, and I'm just here. Yet, it was reported that more than a representative of the Land Hospital was invited to a meeting by the Committee. We feel that there is a need for a more complete overview of matters. Of course, I'm interested in being a member of my district member of the above - mentioned institutions, such as other institutions around the country, in which the funds are due. If you're going to visit the Hospital in Akureyri, that's three or four locations on the budget bill. I would have liked to have the presentation better, to put the information down in one place, so that men could better see the context of the objects. It takes time to get through all these numbers. I can say what. A senator that the representatives of the institutions have made contact this morning, and we're going to this job. I want all fairness to be taken care of when we consider these matters. In terms of the carbon issues and the expenses that have been discussed, we have an agreement to work on. In recent years, we have achieved tremendous success in electrical cars and environmentally friendly automobiles and are on the move. We have been very effective in this area without raising our expenses. So that's a little the same answer as before: We're just beginning the process. [[The president calls.]] It's hard to put into practice an extreme view of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u86	Mr. President. I understand that time is aglow, but what? In view of his last session and his participation in the discussion of the last government on a financial bill - this is why he can describe his views on the development of carbon taxes. It matters what messages are sent out. V.E.G. Environment Minister says that this 50% increase is just the beginning of a path. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with the highest. Environment Minister on this matter? It's a simple question. After listening to speeches, why? A senator and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir earlier today I must ask: Is there a agreement between the constitutions to make significant improvements between 1 and 2. ... awrong.? There's a lot of slack now on this budget bill. Is the idea of relaxing even more? If so, how beneficial it would be if we could be told as members of the council now at 1st. where are you going? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u87	A respectable president. I know there's no agreement on any further arrangements on government expenses. I've only pointed out here that significant spending increases are in that budget bill as it is presented today. I'd like to spend a few seconds on carbon charges and those. I would have wanted a further analysis of the impact of carbon costs on people in different parts of the country. I have not seen any analysis of how much fuel buys the East or the Westfjords compared with the capital population and all of that. There's no such thing. This is this diagnostic work that is being talked about in a financial committee forever. When making informed decisions, that information is extremely lacking. I would've wanted a lot more in forestry and land healing. [[The president calls.]] There I think we have a huge opportunity on climate issues, and I would have liked to see some significant financial support on those factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now, this financial bill is pronounced by the three governments. So it's not unusual to ask why. A senator on the bill where it must have been introduced in the council groups and including the effect of increasing the worldwide tax increase. There's been a mention of the carbon bill here. I heard what it was like. Just before, there was no diagnosis or presentation of the effect of increasing the carbon account by 50%. I don't know if it's reasonable, since the senator has already said that he or the United States has not been introduced, to consider how this increase affects travel, how it affects the pay, how it affects the expense of the local people, and other factors to Akureyri or to Reykjavík. Hv. The senator must have received some information about how this will do so. The financial bill then shows that even there are ideas to collect a coming or leaving fee. How does this affect travel? Hv. A senator spoke extensively about the travel service in his talk earlier. Hence, members of Congress must also have wondered how this could have affected them. The financial bill also suggests delaying the delinquency of the parties to car property. What effect does it have on traveling overseers? A senator spoke a lot about earlier? They're talking about raising a budget tax by 10%, reminds me, or something like that, but I'm not gonna ask you why. Senator now, I'm going to keep it to myself. But I wondered, " How do the tax increases announced in the budget - by the three administrations? ' A senator and his party - have in the country. What effect does this have on citizens of the country, supporters of the country? A senator? How does this affect those who have to go for long service? What effect does this have on the index when a person begins to raise things that will directly affect it if he does? You wonder, though, that the budget is a sign of high elevation, but the cost of spending is not being greatly increased by the independent group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u89	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer for you. Senator. It was the main weight of my talk here, that there is much more research, knowledge, and diagnostic work, whether in travel services or in the wide and wide of the system, when we are making decisions on tax institutions and other things. That's what we were talking about when we discussed the increase in values at the beginning of the year, what I'm saying, what I'm saying, there's no diagnostic work, what the effect is. Regarding the carbon expenditure: In the prime of September, there were 4.6 billion in carbon pay. This financial bill contains 1.6 billion. It has greatly diminished. As I said in my speech in the previous year, I would have liked to know how this affects people in different territories, what this really means. They need to make informed decisions, bearing in mind the effect they have on them. That's what we talked about. We talked about coming charges, the majority of them showed I was involved in us on charges or whatever they might be; there were six different ways around this year, and what were the advantages of the situation. This is just part of the diagnostic work and the research to be done on the effects of changes in large joints. I'll call for it. By the time of 45% of the nation's currency income comes from tourism, the economy has been changed in eight to nine years. When I was a child or a teenager, I never expected that the time would come when the fishing route would not be the trade that created the greatest currency in this country. This is so fast. We have many important jobs, though three of them may be the most important ones. [[The president calls.]] We need to know them better when we make decisions as to how we direct our affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. So we now know that the overall impact of the tax increase in people's minds has not been examined. There is no question about the effect this has on them. I suppose, though, that's what I do. A senator will take advantage of this, and likely he will already be researched to see how this will affect the situation. Since budgets are expected to be approved before New Year's Eve, people do not have much time to speculate about this. Except, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. A senator is making known that he is paying attention to the budget until it becomes clear how this works, e.g. in travel service. I choose to interpret the senator's words, so it may not be possible that the matter will remain the same during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u91	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. The interpretations were interpreted in a variety of ways; in this case, I felt that there was quite a rapid review of the interpretations. I was appointed to the budget 28 hours ago. We received the budget bill some hours earlier. I'm not super man enough to be able to study every aspect of a budget bill, 400 pages and a copy of it at that time, or get the whole context of the parts. We are calling out to meet with the representatives of the largest institutions in the country, including the U.S.A. that we might set our hands on matters, that we might get their vision. Granted, there may be some changes in any direction between lawsuits or whatever they may be. I'm not going to tell you that it's been taken care of now more than ever before in 1st. [[The president calls.]] But I don't want to be put into my mouth like a dog. A senator did this before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u92	Mr. President. It seems that not many people need to comment on the importance of the matter presented here, that the budget is of great importance to the economy as a whole, therefore create a measure of perspective and definition of positions that, of course, are of great importance. There are financial decisions that are of great importance to industry and home, to the competitiveness of employment companies and to the interests of households. This may not be the cause of 1st. to go in detail to specifics at this point. Yet, there is reason to note that the budget of the budget involves much improvement, public financial laws, financial resources, and so forth. This should, of course, be a celebration. At the same time, as mentioned here in other people's languages, we need to accept the situation in which things may not happen exactly in this order as they should be. If I go to the side of the bill, maybe the most vague policy of hunting costs is in order. As mentioned, there have been some vagueities about the carbon account as well as the arrangements or organizational changes around the capital tax. Then I'd like to express a lot of concern about taxation on the lowest income. The forward point, when I last looked it up on the health Ministry website, is about 224 yous. In addition to housing expenses. So it is not absurd to suggest a basic value of 300 yards. K. On the basis of these official figures, the absolute minimum required for an individual to be required. Yet, income is far below this standard. It seems that the state's funds must not be without these funds at all, especially in view of the fact that when it comes to reducing it, it is usually heavy and unsealed that all the changes in this material are so expensive that they are not the dominant. But the other side of that coin is that if it's true, we have a government fund that, if it's true, makes up a large part of it so that we can tax money that is not enough for the needy; food, clothing, and shelter. Of course, this is not a living thing. During the campaign, if I may be allowed to refer to it, a group of people suggested that measures could be taken to improve this subject by taking up a gradual personality discount, so that he fell under his income maybe about 1.5 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of course, we will discuss this matter in detail in our work at the General Assembly. If we take a brief look at the adverse side, there are several points that are worth mentioning, though perhaps it needs to be done in detail with 2nd. It is claimed that it costs more than a billion to raise the payoff target from 25 yous. K. of 100 you. K. However, it seems that this strategy does not include any evaluation of tax revenues to the State of indirect taxes. It does not seem that this change could lead to increased employment and increased employment and, therefore, increased tax revenue. It does not seem that on the surface there will be a black job that 25% of the rule may have created. Of course, there is reason to mention that this bill is designed to cause at least great disappointment, not to be spoken of with great anger, among the poor. Are they, of course, normal and understandable in these circumstances? Then, thirdly, I'd like to mention on the payoffs that there's a plan to raise the payoff rate of dental work for pensioners and the elderly. However, questions remain as to why it needs to wait until the middle of the year as well as why it is not taken more strongly on that issue, but it appears to be expected in view of the fact that the health - insurance balance sheet used has not changed since 2004, as it will be achieved. With regard to debt, borrowing, and other such items, there may be two factors to consider. On the one hand, it may be a more clear way to demonstrate the commitment of the state's funds to the pension bonds of public employees, especially to highlight its impact on the commitments of the state funds when making decisions such as those known in public employees. Of course, according to the 21st century, information of this nature is readily available. Another thing I would like to mention in this regard is that part of the state's debt has come into existence because of borrowing in order to strengthen and promote the Netherlands Bank currency reserve. It may not be the most accurate science that is about exactly how large such resources are to be, but it can be said that in the history of the country and the population, when we live in such times as those we have experienced recently where currency flows into the land in a more troubled stream of currents, the time that has not been spent on the part of the bank to promote their currency fees in the currency markets, thus working against the inflation of this vast influx, the strength that has resulted from a great problem for the export and competitive, national sector, and the problem. This is a substance that I thought would be most valuable to discuss. Finally, Mr. President. I just want to let me tell you as a member of the budget board that we're going to have a hell of a lot of work to do in the near future. I look forward to that job. A financial committee will, in turn, work on a policy-based basis. I know that the committee is in a very strong position in relation to the order in her leadership.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u93	A respectable president. I would like to use only the beginning of my speech to address the demands of women in health care that tell of discrimination, harassment, and violence today. These 627 women want to return the shame at home, requiring that the health authorities, unions, business and health institutions recognize the problem and recognize the procedures and procedures against sexual violence and sexual discrimination. To be taken seriously, the matter must be referred to in the correct professional direction. I want to be a part of these health officials to take this to me and swear to put things in proper direction at the Ministry. Here's the budget bill for a new government. Time is very short here in the 1st. but I would like to mention the priorities of a new government, which is reflected in increased medical and educational donations. The overall increase in health care from the last budget is 21 billion, which includes a range of 5.8 billion, to the hospital service 8.5, to buy 5.4 billion and a half billion for the dental expenses of the elderly and microloathing that have only been involved here. So all fairness be careful and we'll discuss it here in the right context, the increase from the last budget bill, i.e. The bill this could not measure for elections at this time, except for half, so to speak, could not be mentioned, is the increase from bill 8 billion to health. There are 3 of them in hospital service, 1.3 at medical services outside hospitals, 360 million in nursing and rehabilitation, 3 billion in pharmaceuticals and medical products, and, finally, 270 million in public health and welfare management. No one needs to get involved in the thought that these times are all unusual. We are in, as we have noted during the discussion, in fact, the current financial program is valid. The government, because of where we are on the calendar, needs to start by presenting a financial bill before a financial programme has been established. We are doing things in a different order, but public financial laws are presented. However, our case in support and subconsistencies also involves a new federal conference for presentation here at the General Assembly and will likely be able to discuss it after the annual conventions and discuss it in detail, as this is, in fact, a policy-making process for the long future. I agree with the comments that have been made by members of Congress... that this system is not a decent thing to do... but we are actually locked up in this process because of the law. The Law is designed to provide a normal year trip, not the current position, i.e. That we are, in fact, repeatedly choosing late in the fall, and repeatedly a financial bill is being shown as late as it is now and last year. Hv. paritaprevir Ágús Ólafur Ágústsson was present in his talk earlier during his discussion and in a word exchange with me about various proportions in which he used certain numbers to produce as low and as lame as numbers that he could, in any way, find out. I would like to hope that in answer to me here, which he has already digested, we can agree on some basis in what purpose we're using when comparing numbers. I know he loves to compare apples with apples and oranges and oranges, but not vice versa. Thus, the national contribution to the health system during 2016 was 7% of the gross domestic product. This contribution was 7.7% in the current year, 8.5% in 2018. Here, I'm just talking about the State Prowess instead of the overall contribution to the seminar, including what comes directly from patients' pockets, just so it's in the way. A respectable president. This is an uncomfortable short time, these five minutes, but I see my time is over. I expect I can have a lot of discussions here. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u94	Mr. President. I want to start by saying that I'm very pleased with the highest. a new health minister who expects good things from her. My question is twofold. I'd like to ask you what the state of the Land Hospital is this year. Does it look like it's coming out in the minus or above the zero? Then I'd like to ask a question about the director of the Land Hospital's Response. In the media, he declared that the budget was disappointing and felt that the Land Hospital needed another 600 million in the business just to keep the water. Without this amount, he feels that he cannot continue to recruit the necessary workers and says that this amount is not a major offense but only to keep his business floating. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is the key to not getting the needed funds to keep the business ablaze? Does the secretary of the Director of the Land Hospital think it's wrong to calculate the problem, or is it not just a priority for a new government to protect public health?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u95	A respectable president. To keep these numbers in perspective - these are always high numbers when we talk about the health system, and for the former environmental minister, these are a significant variation in the figures we address here -- that is what is intended for the State Hospital's contribution this year about 66.5 billion. In fact, when we're talking about 600 million, we're talking about less than one percent. Of course, when we were talking about 600 million in some other context, that would be an enormous number. I trust the director of the Land Hospital will handle numbers correctly. But I also trust that we are traveling in it, me and him, to want to protect good public health. I expect this to be the case in a more powerful national budget where I and the head of the Land Hospital agree that a good and strong university hospital is the heart of a good health care professional. I expect that, and thank you for the good word. The head of the welfare committee to me, that we have a good cooperation over those goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u96	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers from the highest. Secretary of health. We're here talking about small amounts of money. That's why I don't understand that there are 600 million more just in the business, that there's so much need for this. He's talking about how he can't hire needed staff in the hospital without the money. Another 400 million people are also talking about buying equipment. Why, when these amounts are being placed in a bill for financial purposes, is that not an option? Now, the McKinsey report revealed that the land hospital was well fired. I guess the director knows what he's talking about. Is it not obvious, then, that he needs that money and that they should have just been there from the beginning?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u97	[[Also about the state of the Land Hospital.]] A respectable president. I'm sorry I haven't finished answering back. A senator last time. At current budgets, contributions to the Hospital are 61.3 billion. What's on the bill here is 66.6, of course, which includes new projects. Thus, it is indeed the correct comment that is made by the head of the Land Hospital. But what we're adding now from September to December, there are 2 billion 665 million. That's quite an improvement. We are adding 15 billion to everything, 8 billion to the health system. Of course, I hope I can cooperate. I hear from medical institutions all over the country that there's a lot of expectations that the one standing here will do the job, and I promise that I will do my part and all my political weight in fighting for the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u98	The situation now... under zero?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u99	We must trust what the president of the Hospital says, but the case is now at the General Assembly. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u100	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat my verbal exchange and the highest. A health minister from this morning, but I emphasize again that an increase of 31.74%, as is being watched here, is not a major offense at all or anything. There's no rescue here or anything like this before this morning. I want to keep it up. It wasn't the numbers, it was numbers, it was their number. But I wanted to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister on a specific case and on the glycaemic tax. I believe that the behavior of consumers is influenced by financial motivation. Diabetes is a growing problem in this country. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister whether it is available to support the proposal, if it is presented, or to present it itself, of the stress of the glucoc tax in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u101	A respectable president. This is one of the points discussed in the government covenant as a potential for improving human health. So there is indeed a discussion at the government table to explore these options. During the days when I responded in the media to the importance of this and a good idea, many people told me that there are other ways to improve human health. I'd like to look into this in context, see all of it all at once, but to me, sugar tax is part of it all. But for the rest of your life. A senator in general says about figures and statistics, that is a significant increase between years, 0.8% in gross domestic production for increase between 2017 and 2018 years. It would at least feel like OECD, though I don't know what to do. Senator of the Continental feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u102	Hv. President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister to my office, this is a large and large office. During the days of the campaign, a meeting was held in the Norwegian house, where a new Hospital, a new hospital, was spoken of. It showed that within the hospital, there seems to have been a measure of silence for the staff, that they cannot express themselves about a new hospital. This was made clear at this meeting, as it were, by the nurses'comments. So there has been a need for a new hospital construction in a new location. Will the minister consider this - this is so on tape - that it will be checked within the hospital? I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister who spoke in a speech yesterday about saving the health system in the hands of decades of neglect and thus did not remain in the hands of the funds. What does the Minister mean? Is the minister referring to the fact that the Ministry of Health has been conducted by the Ministry of Health over the last few decades by forwarders, independents, and lefts? Is he talking about too much privatization? That independence was too much control over the health system in Iceland? Is that what the Minister's talking about? I'd also like to ask the highest. A minister would highlight whether she would focus on a smaller personal service in the health sector, to reduce it, or whether she intends to use herself to expand her private service. [[The president calls.]] Thank you, one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u103	A respectable president. That was very good. I know why. A senator would love to hurt me by the fact that I have been overworked by independents for too long. And that, of course, is my opinion and has been for a very long time. [[For example: It's a hard thing to lure it into.]] Yes, exactly. This is very important to me, and just ahead of my tongue. I've said, about this change in the measures of public funds into the health system, i.e. that the structure of the public system has studied 3%, but in the private system about 57%, it is apparent that it is responsible for large and small decisions. Such decisions need to be considered. This need to ensure that the period of building up we are going into today is in behalf of the public health system that is our own health care system, which is for all of us. Whatever it is. A senator asks about, the location of the Hospital, I'll take an answer later. With confidence that it might be. A senator does not raise 14 new questions in his second answer. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u104	A respectable president. I've got one question for 12 teams. No, I'd like to say to the highest. Minister: It's a pleasure to hear, if I understand correctly, that she doesn't like it very much if you're applying the silence in the land hospital. I hope she answers it clearly afterwards. And then what she will do about it if that is true; talk to the nurse or in some way research it. When it comes to privatizing, or saving health care from capitalism or the money force, as it were. A senator has sometimes talked about, and you wonder how to do it and what to do about it. How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers reduce money money to the health care sector today? I was at the doctor's house this morning, got a top-priority service in his office. Will it be so I can't look there in four years, let's say it? Will the minister use himself to reduce financial contributions to private health care? He's going to give his money or this alleged high school, which is what he's talking about. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson masterfully exposed the fact that there is no, is it so that the alleged mass gain will be only on the government's side, not in the private service?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u105	A respectable president. One of my priorities is that there will be an assessment of the development of health care in Iceland in the past ten years, i.e. to wonder exactly what it is that has really happened. Has there been sufficient perspective on how we would like to see our health care development, or has it been a matter of decisions that have walked here and there, without considering what they would really have to do with the overall interest in society? To make decisions, I need to make that assessment. But as I have said and said here before and can quite repeat, my main objective is to support the public health system. About a question why. A senator of a new hospital is my firm stand that the location of the Ring Road is correct. That's the basic result of almost every political party in Iceland. I've never heard that before. A senator is suggesting that there is some kind of silence going on at the Land Hospital on these matters. I met the director of the Land Hospital once a week. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u106	That's not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u107	That could be one of the things I recorded in a conversation with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to repeat a question. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen's position in the Hospital this year. This is very important, since last year's budget was done by a financial committee mostly to make the Landsaholics and medical services zero. It was made a promise here in the symposium that if it was headed for minus it, it would be fixed by the Generals. The important thing is that we can take care of it so that health care will not start in the minus again for the next year. It may be possible to review the position of the reserves and the like. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned that we were locked up because of the law. I think there's a bigger solution there to be with the Council. I wondered if it would have been the right thing to bring up a budget bill according to a current financial programme and a petition to the General for the implementation of the policy, as there are, yes, members of the governments that could work that way, change the bill according to a financial plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u109	First of all, about a question. The senator's position this year, I believe, is right now that at the very first meeting of a new legal committee, when she receives the bill for progress, this will be one of the points that will be discussed at a meeting with the head of the Land Hospital. I suppose it's going to be called to the Committee, if not the first meeting, in a discussion on the budget bill. Of course, there is a need to discuss the factors. There's a senator here. We've been putting noses together sometimes. A senator here in parallel rooms regarding the presentation of this bill and how to carry it, as well as the code of law we've created. It is quite clear that this situation today is highly demanding for members of the Parliament and that there are very high demands that both people are willing to work hard and at very unusual times, etc. I just want to celebrate this general tone that is here among the members of Congress, and we would like to resolve this bill so that the government and the remuneration agencies there may be able to believe that this has been prepared for 2018. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u110	A respectable president. You see, members of Congress act on their own convictions. On the other hand, the government has to live by resolutions and laws. Senators can offer suggestions from here to there and vote here and there no matter what the Generals have previously agreed to, just according to their own convictions. I think it is very important to consider health care status. It was taken a huge step in working on budgets last December to reach zero. This was taken to debts from 2015, 2016, and what it was to achieve that goal. To lose it would be a disaster, especially because the issue of the campaign was both 2016 and 2017. It contains the key to starting with zero. If we see that we are heading in the minus again, as the president of the Land Hospital has mentioned, we are not built up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's take advantage of this opportunity and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u111	A respectable president. I don't think there's ever too much of a reminder that the government is in charge of the Generals. It's really the World Congress that is the highest organization in the country. Of course, those of us who take the project at any given time have no authority to perform one or more things unless the decision of the Council has been made by the Council. Thank you. A senator for reminding me here. But I myself am very busy with these views. Therefore, in my final answer to this discussion, I want to reflect on it, in view of the fact that we have to set up a long future health policy and leave it just below in my discussion: Who should be the International Assembly meeting to set up health policy for a long time so that we do not have to be deprived of such a key system in our community from year to year but is part of a common community covenant that we can prove?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u112	You answered, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u113	Mr. President. I think this has been an interesting discussion about something quite practical. I have to say, the more you go through these numbers, it's obvious that the gap between the budget bill that was put forward in the fall and this bill isn't much. However, government funds are being lax. Of course, it is a measure of concern, but at the same time it is proper to point out that we emphasized, not long ago, in elections, restorations as other categories, that there must be health support, education, etc. I also want to express my joy with the tone that has been struck by the highest degree. The minister of finance and the members of certain Parliaments, both the forwarding party as well as the independent party, must be careful. Then you listen to a talk like that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A health minister who sees to it that there may be a certain bar for sugar taxes and more within the governments. It will be interesting to watch for the tone to be struck there. Many things are fine, as I have noted in this financial bill worth paying attention to. I also want to express my satisfaction with this arrangement. I think it's a little efficient, although everyone wants more time. But I think the ministers here are more concerned with answering, and that is worthy of praise. First, I want to direct my questions to the environmental Minister on the carbon charges. I think the highest. Environment Minister has heard me talk about it earlier today. How does he see the trend? There's an up of 50%. There is a clear disagreement within the board of directors for the next steps. I'm pointing a word out of it. paritaprevir This is the Njáll of Friðbertsson, the son of Trausti. How's the top? The Environment Minister of this thing makes himself and how does he see us Icelanders deal with financial commitments in connection with climate conditions by 2030? Secondly, I'd like to ask the secretary of transportation and at the same time the Chairman... [[Up front.]] I'll be waiting, with the head of the forward party, he's somewhere far from having a good time. I have the right to come back here in view of my specific request for the secretary of transportation and the head of the forwarding party to be here. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural minister on the resource costs. A review has now been offered. Does he expect the increase in resource bills next year on a budget bill? Will he assume there will be an increase in resource costs? Does he see an opportunity to discuss the reexamination fees? It is the wrong method to take into account the two years in advance. If he sees an opportunity to reevaluate the fishing fees, perhaps taking into account small and medium-sized designs, especially in the country, and trying to share that with others in terms of a fair resource payment for the purpose of fishing our resources? The question is simply: Does a fishing minister see to it that next year there is an increase in fishing costs? I'm still waiting for the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management, however, is going to present the questions and speculations. It's because of the carbon charges. How does he see the development of carbon bills? I would like to point out that in an interesting and good report at the highest level. The Ministry of Education, at its time, moved by the NATO Council, is brought forth the threats related to climates and stressed that it is important to go up to carbon bills in an effort to control the current trend. I want to get the attitude of the forward party on the carbon charges. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of transportation may come up here just by members of the advance party and answer these questions, how he can provide for the funding of transport in the southwest corner. The table is now out... Welcome to the Hall of Congress, sir. The secretary of transportation and the head of the advance party. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers for financing projects, especially the urgent transport projects to take place on the southwest corner. The board now has all ideas of possible currency. It would have been worth the discussion to see its pros and cons prior to the southwest corner of such pay. I would have liked to consider them. But how does that make you feel? Transporter transport on the southwest corner winds into the near future? They are the vital and urgent measures we need to take to solve traffic problems. I'd like to ask the highest, too. The city line secretary, the way he sees the development of the city line, funding, and where that project will be carried out, for example. in 2020. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u114	V.E.G. President. I see that me and Katrín are similar in height. I can't bring this up any higher. Hv. Senator, thank you so much for the question, I finally got to stand up. As for the carbon charges, I think it's quite clear, as the Constitution states, that they should be raised by about 50% by the year. That's perfectly clear. Then, too, it is clear in the Treaty that it is to be raised in stages. I just want to direct my attention to the developments abroad, especially in neighboring countries, is that of putting more emphasis on this point. I certainly share interest. It's a senator's fee. I think, in this context, there is also a need to examine such factors as the pollution prevention rule, i.e. The city that pollutes, and more incentives and taxes associated with these issues. It is of interest, among other things, that developments in a foreign land have shown that incentives affecting prices have been more effective than those who influence business. That is something that we need to make a special consideration of. About a question why. A senator, of financial commitments in climate matters, is certainly a part of the work being done in the Ministry and needs to be examined particularly when it comes to our involvement in agreements with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u115	Mr. President. First, I'd like to apologize for your rudeness and offer the highest. Environment Minister welcome to the task force. It'll be fun to keep an eye on him now, as it were. I want to thank him for the answer. It is important to be drawn here at the Congress Hall to show that there will be an increase of more than 50% in carbon pay. I immediately detect a disagreement between the government parties. It is quite clear that this appears to be an emphasis on the left green, and is not surprising. We've already had that brought out. At the same time, there is much inadequacy, and it is not surprising, of the independents to attack green taxes, to look further into the future, and the forward party. It is important to get this out, for 12 years, up to 2030, is not a long time. We have to start working on this, take advantage of every opportunity, the first financial bill proposed by the new government, and try to set a policy to work on these issues. That's why I'm celebrating the ultimate. A minister says, we must approach the matter with beauty and moderation, while at the same time being aware of what we need to consider. It's gonna be interesting to see this trend. I would also have wanted the highest attitude. A secretary for the discount to car property, the tax is up to one and a half billion in support of tourism. In turn, it affects the environment too. What's the ultimate attitude. Environment Minister to this temporary deletion of rental cars?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u116	A respectable president. Yes, my attitude toward what is asked about by reason of the question. A senator is simply that I believe that we must complete this task, which is about removing it. It will be done in stages now. But it will be done in two stages instead at 2018. There's a compromise being made. There was a complaint not to consult the article. This is it. But from a environmental point of view, it is clear that it is important to complete this matter. I agree with the senator on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u117	Mr. President. In itself, there is not much to add. But I'd both like to praise the highest. Environment Minister for being honest on this matter, for reporting the matter as it is, and at the same time the government. This is difficult. The article needs to be consulted. I know it's the highest. A travel minister has been very good at agreeing with each article. This is difficult. There's a certain kind of interest in it. It is the government every time to seek balance. I think it's quite possible to get there, although it certainly would be nice to use political powders and shoot a environmental minister about this, which conflicts with environmental considerations. But we are having a vision of the future. I like it. We're taking care of the road and seeing where we're going. We know the government's perspective on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u118	A respectable president. Thank you for turning specific questions to me and trying to answer them. First, as the senator mentioned, green taxes are opposed to the candidates. Oh, no, you're not. As the oldest environmental category, we truly live up to that name, and we are satisfied with the emphasis of the government covenant in this regard. You see, green taxes come to mind when we consider how to finance the road system into the future. We're going into energy exchanges and getting more electrical cars, hydrogen cars, metal cars, and other eco-friendly cars in here, and we're going to have some of the appeals. By the time they reach sufficient numbers, the tax stock that is on all roads and maintenance will disappear. Was it wise to respond by putting the roadtoll side next to the capital to earn money now and then? We didn't think so. We felt that it was taxation, because of the obvious fact that the senator understands very well in the light of the Congress's hearing of the law, that while we build ten thousand apartments here in the capital area, we are not going to double on the Smokenes Way, Westland Road, and Southland Road, and not on the Sunway or in the city line, as well as other roads in the capital area, because it's called Swamples. Hence, we need to set priorities. For the funding, we need, among other things, to look at the green taxes, but we also need to examine how we contribute to the long - term use of taxes. There have been ideas about, for example, the use charge on driving, depending on different roads. But to put only on the roadtoll is taxation on a certain country's population above anyone else. We opposed it in the same way as we would like to be careful about paying green taxes. We were at a fine meeting in leading an election in the North American House where I emphasized that the taxes must be the motivation that people can take in energy exchange, not just taxes on people, especially on land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u119	Mr. President. In many ways, I can agree with things that were presented in the language of the highest degree. Transport and Regional Ministers. I'm not going to talk about a cry of nonstop policy here on the southwest corner, but there's one outlet taken over the board. And I wasn't necessarily saying that I agree with roads, I just want the pros and cons. That's what I've praised his predecessor in his work, boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, i.e. that he would have the courage to set it up to know what we, the inhabitants of the southwest corner, would be missing if there were no more means of transportation. So the message of this administration and this budget for the construction of transport here on the southwest corner I feel like: maybe one corner, two laps a day -- yes, fine, thanks, but there's not much more to go on. I'm sorry. I would have liked to hear and see the forward party speak clearly in these topics and tell us what his view of building here on the southwest corner because I don't have a clear mark on the budget bill. Also, I would have liked to have it clear by a minister of transportation, which he said at a good meeting in the Norwegian house, where all classes said the carbon bills were to be kept and looked for a longer time. I feel like the highest language. A minister has changed something since then. We're talking about green taxes. We need to talk about green motivations and not be afraid of that, even if it's rocking a boat. We need to make decisions and decisions on these matters. It doesn't mean we're doing it anymore. No, too, is an answer, just as yes is an answer. I'm describing a policy and a forward looking minister of transportation in this. This was made very clear in the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister of the environment here. [[The president calls.]] He was very clear in his stand. I request a similar clear stand on the part of the secretary of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u120	A respectable president. Of course, the answer is very clear: We need long - term structure. This amount of funds has a precise increase, with about half moving to the roadside of the capital area, including the ports of Hafnarfjörður to cut traffic, to increase traffic security, to fix two corners there, and one in the Cósar on the western road. In other words, priorities are where safety is most important, the weight of traffic, such things as traffic. In a five - year financial program and a new four - year transport program, which, of course, need to communicate better than ever, this policy will appear for a longer time. Today, for example, it was to open up the first phase of the Kryrsavav Gang. That task continues. Two laps on the Smokey Lane, near Leifs station, have been restored. Thus, there are many things happening, and we are simply putting it to the bottom of our priorities with long - term insight and reason, in which safety is everything is important. [[The president calls.]] And very short with the city line 2020: this is a long-term project. I can't answer for where it's going to be 2020, but it's probably about a 20-year project, in the opinion of those who have become familiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u121	V.E.G. President. It's important to get this out of the city line. How important it is that we continue to do that work and that certain groups of government groups do not stop it. We are well aware that not everyone is impressed with the city line on the three federal categories, probably left green is the most interested one. In some ways, I welcome those words to the highest degree. Minister; we need to carry on this task in no uncertain terms. Then there is a further factor: the cost of the two - sided Sveinnes Way from Krysuvik alone is 5.4 billion. At present, the current budget is at 9 billion. It sees everyone who wants to see that transportation, the construction of public transportation here on the southwest corner, is left behind. I call it back for a clear vision of the transport structure here in the capital area, but we normally take up that discussion in connection with the transport program. [[The president calls.]] However, the budget does not provide reason for optimism for inhabitants of the southwest corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u122	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks me if I expect hunting costs to rise next year. To answer, it is difficult to realize that the next year's fishing fees are likely to be reduced, but most likely, by the simple reason that the pressures of hunting costs are such that they are based on the survival of the fishing industry two years back in time. In 2015 it was very good, 2016 was harder, so it can be assumed that, in any way, the basis for the application is reduced, only if there is an increase in this loss of income in the past, i.e. if the law remains unchanged. However, I would like to mention that a fishing commission is at work and is considering the pressures of hunting fees. I suppose that since the law expires next year, which is new to the application, as well as winter. A senator knows how to bring up a new bill at the spring Summit which will address our plans for fishing in 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u123	V.E.G. President. It is true that, considering the fact that everything will remain unchanged, according to current legislation, the fishing costs will be reduced, i.e. For an act as it is this day. It is worth considering that a new government will not use this opportunity when the law needs to be changed - law needs to be adjusted, updated - to approach the wide peace that is so necessary for the seabed and society. It is essential that a decision of justice be made in a fishing trade, that a reasonable resource price be taken from those who have the exclusive right to use the collective resources of the nation. I think it's a good opportunity for the highest. Secretary of the sea. Instead of renewing old legislation - yes, of course, perhaps one year in time instead of two, trying to match some technical issue - we should take more pride in finishing the case, solving it transversely. The opportunity is there. I know it's the highest. A seafaring minister is a great deal of reconciliation. I believe that he will use himself - although not necessarily a sign of the government covenant that the project is to be made cross - political - in view of discussions about new practices and monopolies in working on this reconciliation that is so important to the national basic way. Yes, the answer is clear on the basis of the highest. Sea dignitor: We're looking up at a lower fishing rate in relation to the government's civilian policy. But I encourage the government to use this opportunity to revise both the fishing legislation and also collect the resource costs; try to bring it together to meet small and medium-sized rural companies in the country, to take into account the difficult state of the project as it is for certain companies in certain areas, but also look for longer. [[The president calls.]] The resource costs need to be settled and the extent of access to the country's common fish stocks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u124	A respectable president. I suppose we're going to take another discussion about the contents of the fishing business. We're discussing the budget. The answer is very simple: It is likely that the fishing fees will yield lower income unless there is an increase in growth. It's not a new policy of the government. We'll put the fishing fees on the law that's been in force for a while. There's no new policy. [[Up front.]] I gave no answer to whether I had a plan to make changes in my life. I said in my answer that I have a plan to put in a bill about the pressures of hunting fees at the spring council. I wasn't discussing its contents, in no way, because there's no basis for a financial discussion. I'll have a word with what. A senator with the importance of fishing fees or a change in the fishing bill, with the intention of trying to make more peace with him. But I have a question mark in my discussion about who will rely on someone to determine what is justice in that regard and what is not. [[The president calls.]] To that understanding, I think we can have 63 persons in this Assembly Hall as many as we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u125	V.E.G. President. I think it's kind of a pathetic lack of ambition now that we're facing a reexamination of hunting costs. We know that this is a technical matter, but there are certain amounts of money that need to be paid. That's why we're discussing this, that we don't use this opportunity to break it even. Into a larger reconciliation. That means even. increase in hunting fees/ resource fees. Or are the Ministers of Ministers, members of Congress so afraid they're going to charge the resource fees? Is there any fear of that? I'm the highest. Government, commander. Prime Minister as well as the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers, to consider this. The next year's opportunity to achieve both the peace and the fair resource costs is a unique one so that the budget can be identified by the bill. But decisions need to be made, a course, and a vision. The vision is that we should achieve a fair resource fee, and we can add it to the review of the fishing fees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u126	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the President first if there are any ministers in the house. I don't feel like having them called, don't bother waiting for them, but it was agreed that ministers would be in the discussion, so they must be out here listening. If not just then, I don't miss them at all. This discussion has naturally given evidence that everyone has just been delivered. How sad it is, though, that when the members of the council enter the council, they do not seem to recognize what they have agreed on in this bill! We do know, though, that there is a big rise in certain taxes. The Independence Party here goes on its own by raising taxes that are novel in that town, but perhaps it was some secret desire to get into this. It's not up to you to lower the insurance bill, as we have just discussed. Then, in spite of a big, fat promise to cut him off, a book tax still hangs in. I can't see there's a dollar in community. Yes, there are 100 million, I see, from the based schedule to the parish plan. That's the way to keep counting. A big word for the election can't get in here. Yes, wait. There is talk of a large transport pursuit, about a billion such, perhaps 1.5. This is not a major offense in view of the extent of transportation. There's talk of a huge amount of money into the medical service. Yes, there is an increase in money, but nothing is in harmony with what was promised. Of course not! It's a house-to-house business. That text is as pierced as Swiss cheese for some reason. I don't know why, but there's nothing wrong with making money, there's no sign of anything. Older citizens. Yes, they are thrown into that position rather than just going all the way and removing the loss of employment and allowing senior citizens to work and pay taxes just like everyone else. Why is this not done? It is obvious that this financial bill, such as the Treaty of this government, is some agreement for a very small, preferential, and attempting to prevent these groups from coming across. You're also wondering if this raise is 53.3 billion, something like that if I've found the right number in this bill, it's okay to correct me if it's wrong, it's the cost of independence now. This is the number at which power must be maintained. Maybe there's more, doesn't know it, but it's no small thing at least. It's probably just a tiny number in their eyes, for independents, to keep power in the community and sacrifice everything to do so. I've searched and searched for the forwarding party promises on this bill, they can't still be found. However, I'd like to think about what I'm worried about, and I'm going to come in there again. I can't feel that there is an increase in money or making money a very important matter - the cost of transportation, the subsidies of transport costs. It may be that I haven't found it in the bill, but I miss it completely as if merely settlements in general. I just want to come to the financial system. It is said that payment, taxes, and some financial fees are due. However, there is no ambition, and you, of course, associate this with the government covenant. This financial bill is a continuation of that useless piece of paper. Then you wonder if it really is, so you're going to let Arion's bank pass over, you just gonna let the hedge fund go back and take it all away. Apparently. I was also thinking about the agricultural components of the budget. I don't know if it's the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers are here somewhere and if they can answer that. There was a lot of talk in the process of elections, and really, if I recall correctly in the campaign, and then I think I'm in the government covenant that something great should be done for sheep farmers. I just want to say, "Where are they money in this budget bill?" What is to be done for sheep? Or will it just come some other time, 2020 maybe, for the rest of us? That's probably the plan. At least I don't see any numbers under the agricultural section to go on. It may again be that I have missed out on this, as does the administrative body seem to have missed many things in this fine suit. A lot of paper on small materials. The carbon tax. It has not been possible to answer this question here, even though it has been asked what it means exactly for those who are going to pay this tax. Is this just the first step, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount? Minister of the environment last night, in going over to green taxes? There's nothing in this record of some impulse. Have you not thought of getting people in a positive way about changing energy, using energy efficiency other than fossil fuels? What about positive motivations? How about spending some money, if you're ready to do it now, paying off for those who have to connect their cars with electricity or something like that? [[The president calls.]] This is absolutely ambitious when it comes to this. I'm just supposed to raise taxes here. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing positive about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u127	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson asked for it from earlier on that the ministers to whom he said they had a place to speak would be in the hall, and they brought in some of them. There's neither of the ministers I'd been planning on talking to, either the highest. Secretary of the budget or the highest. Secretary of health. In fact, a health minister stood at the table where the person standing at his time when he was missed from that hall. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] [[The point is, is it a perutte?]] Now it's a good thing, if I saw it right. So I ask the highest. President if he can do the same thing as here today, attempting to call this Minister in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u128	The president has information that all or most ministers are here in a house, so they should now be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u129	Yes, but a respectable president, I now ask for the same thing as that. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson asked for me to interrupt my case while I wait for the councilmen. [[Now it's an attempt to attend a minister to play, so I've decided to make this recommendation. Senator. - The President wants to say that there's a secretary of finance coming to the chamber in a few minutes. Here's the highest. Here's a health minister. [Laughter and conversation at the Assembly Hall.] - We'll just wait a minute. - Mr President thanks a lot. Councilmen and the highest. counsellors patience.]] - We'll just wait a minute. - Mr President thanks a lot. Councilmen and the highest. encourage patience.) A respectable president. Not much of the time remains. Can we do something about it so I can come forward...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u130	The president has taken into account the location of the senator's speech when he interrupted his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u131	I'm not quite sure Mr. President is right. I thank the council members for being seen here in the Hall of Congress because I thought I'd discuss something very important with them. First, there's--no, now there's a lot to do with the clock, now it's working, Mr. President. Thank you. It has not been overlooked that the economic situation in Iceland has changed completely since then. It is also clear how this happened. This occurred with a very large operation, which was in force at the time, but was under attack, resulting in the failure of the State Fund's debt status and, as a result, the capacity of the State to deal with various projects, internalization, and so forth. I'm not talking about because we see how much better the state's arraignment is going to be able to take the euro loans at 0.5% interest. It's a different situation. It is therefore a concern, Mr. President, that the government is primarily going to use this position in order to increase expenses without being careful about how these additional expenses will be used, i.e. without making sure that they are fully new. At the same time, the government is, in effect, yielding much of this success. The most obvious example we can see today is the surrender of Arion's bank, quite an amazing fact, Mr. President. Now it's time to leave the bank of Arion at the same time as people are going to use this so - called above their own money at the Bank of Iceland. That's why I'm asking this Minister, the highest. Mr. President, what's the situation? How is it that the government is going to do this U-turn at the seemingly or at least? are they loved by giving away the position that the State had toward Arion's bank like other banks? And how is this massive investment, or spending, to be done without considering how to adapt the system for expenses? One of the most clear examples, and that's why I asked to the highest. A health minister would be here, is the healthcare system. Since surgeons have repeatedly concluded that it is extremely important that, along with the increase in funding for the system, the system will be reassigned to more efficient funding. In fact, surgeons said that it was strictly dangerous - it was dangerous - to increase donations to the health of the health - care professional without simultaneously attacking the system's changes, improvements in the system. Understandably, because if you put a substantial amount of money in this situation, which is not good enough, then it will be even more expensive and even harder to fix the system in its own time. Here we just saw more of the same, more of the health - care policy, all packed up in the Land Hospital, money spent there, while institutions elsewhere like Northland, as we see today, are starving; are actually made to cut down from the previous, but the funding directly involved in a business in the Land Hospital, caused by the defects in the system, by the defects of how these things have been adjusted, is too difficult to operate because it would not be useful. The land hospital is being turned too much pressure. That makes him less successful in business. This makes health care status elsewhere in the country weaker. So natural, Mr. President, what a waste it is to plan to complete the huge mistake of Ring Lane! No way, I think it's the best. Healthcare Minister to take at least A little time, a few weeks, to see if anything has changed since the last decision was made to build on the Circle Road? You see, it's changed so much. In fact, any underlying decision has been changed, whether in Reykjavík, the real estate market, the needs of health care, the development of the city, everything has changed. And then the obvious fact, which should now be faced by all, how inhospitable it is to still build these little clusters of halfhearted houses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are some questions he left for me, I'll start with the last one, depending on what he calls the big mistake on Ring Lane. The location was examined very closely during 2015 with a thorough assessment at the time of the highest level. The current marine road and agricultural minister served the health minister's office. The assessment concluded that the decision was correct. She was right. So the structure will be at the Ring Road. It would be highly inconceivable to turn away from that decision. This would result in high costs for society, and especially for the whole health system, since we would then be setting up the building blocks for a very long time. I'm only thinking about words. When a senator speaks as if the arrangements suggested in the additional medical bill are the sum that does not work well enough as a member of a contract policy, which does not make sure that the results that he first thankss are quite new. I'd like to celebrate that approach. The senator asks if he believes that while we are taking the necessary check on the system, which I agree with a surgeon needs to go on, we should continue to maintain public health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u133	Mr. President. I thought it was the Ministers who sat here for answers, but I'll be glad to answer the highest question. Minister because it's relatively simple. Of course, the job should begin when it comes to the necessary restructuring of the system and, of course, it will need to be while working to provide additional sources. But what we see today is that the system is being promoted. In other words, while the government is putting up these budgets, it does not seem to be beginning to examine how things are done better, but it is actually adding to the flaws. Over there, for example. to what I mentioned earlier, of the highest. A minister asks if we should continue to meet the requirements. They're increasing the requirements. Health services are being cut off in many places, especially at the National Institute of Health, because of the government's emphasis on the division of money to the health system because this crisis has not been addressed and is now being established in concrete. So I'll finish this with Land Hospital now. It has been demonstrated, Mr. President, that it is not only more practical but it is much quicker to build a new building in a new place, a building that works. I know the report called from 2015 to the highest level. Minister mentioned. This was a typical saved report that only led to the conclusion indicated by the basis. What was the basis for this? They were unchanged from what was examined 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u134	A respectable president. I'm asking why. A senator can remind me of who was prime minister in 2015 and if he can remember me when the General agreed to continue the mission on Ring Way. Whether he had a different opinion of this historic mistake on Ring Road or whether his location was one of the other at that time and one at that time. You see, it was the government of Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, who went for the approach to propose to the Council to continue the building of the Ring Road. That's the way it was. With the review of the system, I disagree. A member of the body of elders that includes expenses for the public health system should be maintained during the evaluation and in the future. I disagree with the senator about that. I believe there are aspects of the health system that really need support and especially the public system. This is true not only of the Land Hospital but also of the medical community. Overall, we add 15 billion to our budget now, of which 8 go into health care. I'm excited to hear what it's like. A senator would like to turn into what numbers he'd like to lower there. My opinion is that I could have imagined that much more would have gone into the medical system at this point because there are supported health - care requests throughout the country, and especially in the north and east, for more financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u135	A respectable president. I did not now claim that the government should hold hands with the aid of health care while humans are looking at the system. On the contrary. I was pointing out that in view that the government seems completely out of focus on the nature of the system's defects, it is her mission to add to the defects, still to the problem, including the problem. with the strategy of compression, which is not particularly affected by health care in the country, e.g. in the National Health Organization. This is what I'm urging the government to guard against, just as a surgeon has urged the government to avoid continuing to add to this problem. Yet, the problem seems to be of limited concern to humans. They are to start looking at it now, apparently. However, the media presented clear policy on reorganizing the health system. Perhaps it could help the government and help her if she studied a policy where there is a plan to reorganize the health system so that the money will be more useful. With the Land Hospital, there's a big misunderstanding. Ministers, in that case, are much less large. You see, it is quite wrong that my government promoted the Landspander's construction of the Ringtrack with the approval of a church decree. It was a special requirement that if this proposal should pass through, which was actually a senator's proposal from Kristján L. Möller, during the final days of the council, it would have to be changed, there could not be a suggestion for building a new Hospital on the Circletrack. However, all agreed that there would be a need for action, a maintenance of the Ring Way, while building a new hospital in a new place, a hospital before the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u136	Mr. President. I'm not trying to hide my disappointments with the budget bill we're discussing today. The government groups spoke with them during the administration interview and, in a half way, in the Treaty, indicated that the government covenant should do much better with infrastructure and injection should be significant in health, education, transportation, and well - being, should work against poverty and balance, and should be enjoyed by all. However, the budget is presented, and it shows that only 15 billion more are being added to the budget of the government of Bjarni Benediktsson, a government that fell in September. Of course, 15 billion are better than nothing, but incredibly miserable compared with everything that has been said and everything that has been said. And nothing, just nothing, is done to improve the position of the poorest people in the land. Our hour of speech is short. I'm going to spend my five minutes in government operations to match the country's terms or rather inactions. First, I'd like to say child support. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir suggests the exact equivalent of the state of Bjarni son of Benediktsson government in September, but the criteria for child development have been changed slightly. Parents with less than 242 you. K. during a month you will be replaced by uncivilized child support. K. This year. First - child payment goes up by as much as 1,477k. per month, increasing by 1778 k. every month thereafter. In view of the fact that child damage has been added by 23% to the real value since 2008, that is all there is. Fewer and fewer families enjoy child reforms and have dropped 12,000 since 2013. There has been great agreement on the value of support for child families in the North and around Europe, but right governments have reduced their impact and the dreary policy to continue in the government under the leadership of the left green. Children's benefits in the North are fixed up with the amount of a child, while support in Iceland depends on the number and age of children, income of parents, and marital status. We in the United States would like for the development to be reversed and child reformed to the North American system where child reforms have the responsibility to equalize people's standard of living with a similar income but a variable amount of living. More people have shared this with us, such as ASI. The triple financial status of young people and the weakening of the child - saving system and the growth reform system affect the quality of young children's families and no doubt affects the loss of childbearing because they simply cannot afford it. Young people's standard of living is now worse than their parents expected. The status of young people in the housing market has deteriorated. Thus, the decrease in government support of family members is a huge step back. The book Ungaind in Iceland, by Stefán Ólafsson and Arnaldur Sölvi Kristjánsson, includes Consider the effects of child reform and the standards used in their distribution. In fact, as the case of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir promotes more poverty among working people, much child damage is immediately reduced by low incomes. A couple both who have paid jobs but whose jobs are low get small child benefits here. This is one reason why poverty among children is greater than that of childless families. This is a well - known fact. No further analysis is needed, so the government does not have to wait for any action to be done and should increase child reform immediately and change the criteria of distribution. Similarly, when we discuss these financial laws, we cannot avoid referring to the terrible fact that nothing is to be done to cope with the problems of disability and to improve the benefits they enjoy. A poor person is not allowed to enjoy the fruits of his work, i.e. those who can do some job secular work. Many of our poorest people, from both the elderly and the poor, live only on the pay of social security, the amount that doesn't reach the minimum in the country. Added to this, many people live in a difficult tenure and live in an unusable home. The most immodest people are not allowed to enjoy their goodness. The parents of a young child with a low income and no medium income, either. The gap between the richest and the poorest will continue to grow. What's going on? Social and equal minister on this situation that intends to attack against poverty? Why wait for these actions this year? Why not take action in 2018? Why do we need to determine what we all know and know? This has been a written book, an analysis of both government and government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. Harðardóttir For the questions she raised, a new Hardydotir. There's a lot to say. A senator I agree with, and in many ways we disagree with, especially with children's families, about the poverty of children, and about the worst in society. The government covenant with the present government introduces these segregation classes. This is especially true of poor children. It is also said that measures need to be taken in relation to the lowest earner. In terms of a review of the improvement system, child reform, birthworm, etc., it is one of the things the government intends to discuss with the labour market partners, how the policies and changes will be conducted. The person standing here has already preached to all these major parties to him and to all of them and, among other things, the priorities of the government in that subject, regarding birthworm, on child reforms, and on society's worst outcome. You're absolutely right, like what's wrong. A senator also came to see that many of these sources express their opinion that they wanted to see action, including the U.S.A. On child support. The person mentioned here has said that it is important to use these tools and tools to meet the families that have the lowest income. I have high hopes of developing collective agreements now, among other things, changing these improvements will be done, with particular attention to these groups. Many have to come to that work. There are many suggestions, data, and more in this regard. But we need to work this thing out with the labour market partners, with the General Assembly and other members. There's nothing on them here to put all the power into that work. It will be a project for the next weeks and the next few months and it will already be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u138	Mr. President. I understand the highest. Ministers so that these improvements are not negotiated and the equations available in collective agreements in 2018. Then perhaps the poorest people will expect something through collective agreements. But what about those who have no way of making any agreements? What about those who are unable to perform a strike in order to put up a dresser's request? What about disability and the elderly? What about those who only live on clean money or clean pay from social security? There is a deception in the course of this government, and two last two have played, saying: In January 2018, social security benefits are achieved by a minimum of 300 counts. K. But that's not true. It's just the people who live alone who get 300 yards. K. 1st January 2008 The poor and the elderly live together much lower. How are you planning to go to the top? That's what a minister uses in 2018? Or should it not be done in 2018? Should the poor, the elderly, and the poor still wait while the rest of us enjoy the good?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u139	A respectable president. Only to the rise of 300 yards. A., a what. A senator came in. In the case of the change to the elderly the Ministry will be supported by the light that the General determined on how this increase should be conducted and which classes should rise and which way it should be observed. in this committee's opinion we are discussing a review of the social security system. In terms of the micro-organists and those who enjoy the disability pay, I would like to say that the Minister has already met with representatives of the Quantum Coalition. It is the policy of this government to cooperate with these parties. It's already been discussed. This is especially true in the government covenant, as is shown in the financial bill. I'd like to read it, with the permission of a respectable president: The government will consult with the head of microenergy donors on the changes in the improvement system with the intention of creating an agreement with the system, securing the implementation of microenergy donors, and promoting them to social activities. In this discussion, the government will discuss mainly with the Microcolleague and will aim to complete the work as soon as possible. The first step on the part of the government is to organize part - time contributions from the public for people with impaired ability, but in later stages it is important that professional life take an active part in that work. It's a very long chapter. In connection with this work, as with elderly pensioners, it will be possible to shape a future course there. It has already been initiated and is intended to go into it with force in the new year and in good cooperation and in good agreement with the stakeholders under it, the Quantum Community and Developmental Help. Have already been reviewed at meetings with the directors of these organizations. I also place high hopes that, at the same time, this will be done in considerable compensation for these groups, which certainly need it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u140	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. They tell me that the poor still wait, wait again and again for the better to come. But the highest. Ministers hope that the outcome will be good. I hope so too. Mr. President. I just want to object from this public assembly that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter put in here a financial bill with a complete hunger policy against the poorest in the country and then intends to negotiate it in agreements and take it back in 2018 to change the micro-organism system. How many governments have said that? Even the government I was in said that. It's been years. It is still too complicated to live with. They find it difficult to protect their rights because the system is complex and opaque. It's been too long. It's supposed to go on and make changes fast and fast. V.E.G. Minister agrees with me, I see. I will cooperate with him so that this work can be done quickly and effectively so that in the end the elderly and the desperate will be chosen in a productive way. I don't want to be evaluated for employment unless the labour market is ready for that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u141	Mr. President. I'm rather interested in innovation and things that are connected to it. Clearly, this new government is eager to be identified with innovation and progress. Such ambitions should be celebrated. The fear, however, is always a bit empty. It is therefore true that we review the budget on the basis of progress. It's interesting to me that donations are being reduced for sectoral and innovation funds. There are a lot of competitive funds fired by the government today. It may be time for a review of some sort, even for a united one. It is clear, though, that money is not overexploited by its trustees or funds. And the bill does not quickly reveal where the government's great priorities in innovation really are. It's at least are not included in the field of research, innovation, and knowledge. There is an enormous amount of policy development and planning, but extremely little of real action aimed at promoting the innovation environment, improving the company's environment and promoting research and development. The proposals of the Scientific and Technical Council do not seem to get financial support and implementation, despite much talk about its need for elections, but, at best, another round of policy into the air. There is a surrender on the part of the council that will happen because this is an ongoing problem, that policy continues indefinitely, and with real ideas not a channel. In fact, there are several places where a small amount of innovation has been discussed through various lawsuits. This may be the case, e.g. see in the fishing grounds for days from greenhouse gas emissions. That's very nice. But you ask yourself, " Is there any economic incentive to encourage people to participate in such activities? ' It is also a cause for joy that it appears to be to finance the work of sheep's farmers about carbon dioxide balance as described in the bill. But there seems to be no means of covering that cost. That project can be estimated to cost some 200 million dollars. K. each year for the next five years. I have strong hopes that somehow we can fix this in the affairs of the council between 1 and 2. ... that we can find the money to make something of this ambition. There's ambition, it just doesn't show up in the sheep money, apparently. I think all classes of the Generals have such ambitions for the increase of innovation and progress. I'd like to hear something from the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister, whether this bill complies with its ideas and expectations for what is to be done in innovation and development and in all of them. If not, where can it be said to be better? Why was this not done? It's not like she's coming back into the Ministry, so she's had no time to prepare. In particular, I ask: Is there anything in this financial bill that aims to specifically improve the position of sceptre companies and innovation companies? It was much now spoken of in the leading of an election that it was necessary to eliminate roofs on reimbursement for research and development. Most classes agreed. Maybe that's fine. But is there evidence that we are going that way or that way? At least I don't see the money in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. They were quite a few things. I'm gonna try to cross them all. The government's deal is very newer than anything else. Never has there been written as a new birth - making covenant as this one. We've had a very good reaction from both major innovation companies and pioneers as well as those involved. In three years, from 2015 onward, technology funds and reimbursement for research and development have increased by 80%, from 2.6 billion to 4.7. Technical Development Funds increased, e.g. Some 900 million in 2016, about 60%. This injection is held both in 2017 and 2018. This is because of research and development, as it were. A senator entered, was tripled last year. The government covenant makes it clear that we need to revise this arrangement with the objective of removing the roof. We've already been meeting with the representatives of the companies most possibly the most involved in this. These are points to consider. They certainly did not. Five days we had to cross the budget bill. But it will be. Of course, the new creations go through all kinds of issues. This injection into education system has, for example. impact on the innovation environment. There is talk of a medical examination that involves innovation. Then we will discuss the new creation policy that I have high hopes for. You see, it is also part of the process of going over what we put money on, because money in innovations, in these funds, institutions, and so forth, is very great. I feel that it is really important to consider what the money is and whether we use each dollar as well as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u143	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. True, this did not answer the question to the point that it was primarily a case of the government covenant. The government's deal is a very nice piece of paper, but it doesn't have any documents, there's no money actually laid on the projects. What I'd like to know is where the money should come from, for example, that should be financed. The carbon balance work of sheep farmers. Where are the actions that will have these effects? I'm just afraid there's a little bit of irrefutable claims that things are supposed to happen without financial support. So if I come up with something else, one of the goals of innovation, competition, and knowledge is to make competitive evaluations of the laws and rules of selected sectors. That's a good thing. But has it been possible to do a similar study in the United States to determine if any articles do not have the competitive environment that would be natural for them to have? There have often been speculations that there is some convergence and consultation that could even result in a significant increase in the cost to consumers in the community as well as a decrease in the opportunities of companies to get into the market. Is this something to be considered or carried out? You see, it's too much to talk about, but maybe it's too little to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u144	Mr. President. To answer that question first, I was asked whether I was happy or not with the money that goes into the innovations. I'm gonna be honest with you and tell you that I like the money that goes on there. It's a lot of money that's gonna do good things. Of all the money you put into it, I'm content with what falls into these matters. I also feel that the project is to reevaluate what we do with our money and the results it brings. Regarding farmers, there are ideas that they will come with us to reach the Paris meetings. I've understood that a livestock deal like that would be a good deal. One tool there. What's turned, but what's so much fun about being a rookie minister is that, of course, it's inside all kinds of plots. And there are all kinds of funds. This too was about the waters of the sea. We also have a fund that hears under other departments. Of course it's part of the Ministry of Education, etc. Then I'm going to give you a plan. There's another tool. It has not been advertised for a few years but is about to do so now. It can be picked up by pioneers too. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator mentioned at the end of the Contestant Control and Assessment, and other things are not something I know is on the program, but I am always willing to do something about improving the interests of consumers and that competition is normally allowed to flourish.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u145	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister again for the answers. I agree with her that it is necessary to make good use of each dollar. I expect us to have a good cooperation in making an enterprise's innovation environment in Iceland the best way anyone can benefit from. Of course, there are many other matters to consider in general, and I expect to give a different talk, especially about foreign matters. I appreciate this discussion for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u146	Mr. President. There is no big sign of a change of direction or suggestions as might have been expected by a New Government welfare class. Left greens haven't left much prints. The bill reveals quite a bit of their postmortem in the formation of government. What a disappointment that is! I'm not going to destroy words in the Independence Party's promise of 100 billion in the hall before election; they judge themselves naturally, since this figure is 15 billion when compared to the Benedikt son of Jóhannesson from the fall. So it is only two percentage points of change in government expenses from that bill. The independent category and the VG are basically disagreeing about the role of the tax system. In addition to the simple tax system, the former feels that it is the responsibility of the tax system to provide needed income. The latter has spoken a step - apart system and wants it to be thought of as well as the balance of income. Neither, however, appears to be necessary. Billions of income are left behind in the bill, and further taxes are actually being proclaimed in the government covenant. This is done at the top of the economy swing while attacking to a considerable permanent and necessary expansion. This is no way to make the best of the years. On the contrary, these changes may call for a higher rate of growth and inflation; the bolus of gasoline has come to an end. Experience shows that it is reduced to the next down cycle, and this may result in a higher fall - harder at least. The nation's call needs to be answered for needed infrastructure, and the campaign supply of all classes must be completed. It would have been better to go where both the left green and the Conspiracy spoke of before elections - to earn expenses, to protect low incomes, and to bring income to those who have the best of it. Probably no one here has missed the fact that Iceland is in a very different position. 5% of the population has equal to 95%. But hard - working, low - income earners cannot, in effect, make ends meet. Desperates and elderly live in a way too low on a basic pension. Many families live in an unsecured, predatory tenet, and it is good to note that studies have shown a link between children's poverty and rent - rent children. There are effective ways to counteract these inequities and combat poverty. There are well-known ways and no special assessment is needed, although it is always good to keep information in place. I can mention an increase in housing support by the fast construction of my tenant driver by nonprofit partners. I can talk about growth improvements that are useful to housed and higher housing benefits for tenants trapped in a difficult tenet, who have not enjoyed what the increase in apartment prices have paid in recent years. Finally, there is an increase in child improvement, which is a very well - known and efficient way to meet the cost. No such action is being proclaimed by this government. Looks like it's a little close to a satchel, I think. I feel that the coverage of housing matters over my head is very hairy, vague, and may be most marked by talking about insurance. If I know the forward party correctly, that means you should be on your way to ban the 40-year priced mortgages. But it is the loan form that, in spite of all of it, is the only thing that has been able to take advantage of people in this community. What is to be replaced if counter measures are not being offered in the form of growth reforms and child repairs to bridge the gap over the threshold for the first time? There is no need to raise the elderly's basic pension and disability, the lowest wage. People living together will still have 300 of you. K. ... inpay. It's too small. Of course, it would be necessary to achieve a solidarity in these adjustments. There are classes in the government that I know would want to. Let's give it a shot. There is, in fact, little in this bill, suggesting that head above head should attack the discrepancies and increase the equation here in the community. It's very sad. I was only going to talk about these tax-real changes, how they're gonna deal with people, but I'm going to have to make them wait. It would have been so nice to discuss only some very ambitious actions announced in the Treaty on Climates, but it would have been sad to see that giving out taxes there is to be done. Other than that, these actions are also badly financed. So I was disappointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk and a review of these matters, the Logi of Einarsson's son is lit. He only came into the accommodations I'd like to come up to answer to. It is true that in the Treaty, it is specifically noted that young people should be put down and taken lightly to enter the housing market. It is known that about 80% of rent - rented people would like to have their own home. We know that even there are barriers, though the potential for payment is good; it either fails to resist the payment or the payment is lacking. Hence, all kinds of ideas have been placed on the table. In the government covenant, we are also talking about taking the next step in decommissioning insurance. There, in fact, the same counter measures are considered to be appropriate. Of course, we have the first estate, the special possession, approved at the 2016 summer Summit. In the present brief period of time, this has proved to be very effective. Of course, there are other options to consider. It may not be fair to expect that, in the six months we have had to prepare these budgets, to make remarkable changes there. What needs to be considered includes. access to whether the pension system can be used otherwise, called the Swiss way we presented to the election. It can also be considered in interest of the growth reform system. I know the Conspiracy has had ideas of that, double growth improvements. It may also be thought of taking the route that the Norwegians have taken, along with experts at the apartment loans, are loans that are loans of interest, and pay free for a while. We've also talked about a recess at the loan fund, and there's more of those ideas going on. However, it will take time to analyze the options. We need to examine this whole thing, and it may not be reasonable to expect that we have brought them into the budget for the past two weeks. But hopefully soon next year, we will see the place which road we consider to be the most reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u148	Mr. President. I'm sorry if I'm unfair. I know, of course, that you can't bring everything on the first day. However, based on the many words that are not defined, some things might have been widely spoken about. Today, it is not that all young people are interested in having an apartment. The pattern of consumption is changing, and we simply need to put more into the original budget than we did; there is no increase from the Benedikt bill. Other methods are likely to be considered, too. For example, the United States has provided a bill for this Norwegian bridge loan, so you can borrow a copy of it from us. Similarly, we have an old campaign supply called Preservation of a real estate market that assumed that people could get five years in advance. Of course, destroying the growth system is not an efficient way. I had no intention of talking to you about the special kicker. Of course, it is a procedure that helps primarily those in the financial group who live under better circumstances. Now left green could help you figure out the trouble with it; they talked a lot along with us. Still, I'm delighted to hear that. Ministers announce that something will be done, because this is an extremely important matter in our community. We'll certainly be riding with you in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u149	A respectable president. It is true that both parties are at the market who choose to be on rent, and some will probably just have to be on rent. Over the years, we have changed the legal environment of the housing market. They've created a device to go these ways, including with general apartments, with the founding process. They have been financed sufficiently at this time, so that humans are not really able to build faster. While putting more money into these budgets may have been of little value, we are fulfilling the contract made at the company of the labour market on these matters. I think we need to keep looking into this reality. We need to keep on ensuring more supply. That's what we have to do in cooperation with our rural society, i.e. to build more efficient apartments on property. This is considered in the government covenant. I know there's a lot of interest here at the council and, in fact, there's a lot of interest in it. When co-administered, the risk was increased. Senator. He introduced ideas produced by the Conspiracy, exporting the Norwegian route. That's exactly what we were discussing here last night, talking about the policy debate, and talking a lot about in the Constitution, that we want to listen to the ideas of others, knowledge and experience that are presented by men. It's the tone that's been hit. What a joy it is if we are able to unite at this important market, in our house - to - house affairs! If economic growth is not greatly increased, I think, in spite of all the construction levels here in the capital area, that there will be a demand, in excess of four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u150	Mr. President. Of course, it is good if the government wants to listen and get our ideas and accept them. I thought that the first steps when we were putting up ideas on committee places and other things were in motion, there was no indication that there was any particular flexibility. But let it be. V.E.G. A minister says that no faster construction is possible. You see, you can build faster. Iceland and I are incredibly old - fashioned when it comes to construction. We need to consider building and setting up easier buildings. This also requires giving money so that appropriate institutions have money to do construction research. That's exactly what we need to build faster. We need to build less, and we need to build closer to one another so that we can establish effective public transportation. Then we're up to the climate. That's the biggest operation, the highest. Environment Minister, who can be considered to be successful in climate matters; this is built, it is the man - made environment in which 70% of Iceland lives. It is rather tragic that in the Treaty, there is virtually no discussion. There should have been a key point in the project from the highest. Environment Minister. I hope he doesn't, and next time, he'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for an excellent speech, such as in advance. I wondered, because I am now a member of a class that shares the general opinions of the class as well as its origins. A senator is a member of, in terms of social security and civil pay ideas. Now I don't know, I have to admit, the Civilization Policy, but there's been a lot of talk about the Fourth Industrial Revolution and all that, all the good stuff. What we're working on is raising the amount of holiday pay on the social security pension in 25 of yours. K. of 100 you. K. which, of course, is worth a lot of money. There are two things I have really considered with what I would like to get to know who. The senator on. On one hand, the cost of raising it from 25 o'clock. K. Up to 100 up. K. The budget is 1.1 billion. The cost, however, is less than 2.5 billion, which is not much more than twice the amount contained in the budget bill. It's like 1.3 billion on top. This would result in the failure of any professional income in the pension of social security for the sake of employment. It would simplify the system. That's my other comment on this, i.e. I feel like this is gonna complicate the system again. Although it may be uncomfortable for clients to keep the same holiday goal from different income teams, it is generally good to have it. They think that in the context we're talking about here, they're going to eliminate the impairments completely for this little capital. I wonder what. A senator has developed a personal opinion of this subject. The connection with the civil pay is that this would solve all the labor the senior citizens might have and would want to give.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u152	Mr. President. The party went to the campaign with a cautious objective, as the government suggests, to raise the holiday target only to 100 levels. K. It may be possible to show that the net exposure by eliminating all income-free levels on every job is in some way that doesn't make it much more expensive. Above all, it is a matter of righteousness. If you have madly high income, something is really going to be reduced. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. However, we have emphasized that only 13% of the elderly are at work, can, will, or are there for other reasons. 87% are not there and trapped in their shallow pensions, which are too low. So we would have preferred to take this cautious step and then go on raising a basic pension that will benefit everyone, including poor old people, who have just taken advantage of their income. As for the Civil Prize, the Continental Union has acknowledged that it needs to be examined and considered because this fourth industrial revolution will lead to a change in employment, and our concern is largely due to the fact that when capital owners and business owners no longer need to be employed but to use machines, they need to be taxed in some way that is different from that of earnings so that the public does not sit down with people who have no work and cannot be given them any service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u153	Thanks a lot, Mr. Honorable President. Yes, I understand well and agree in many respects. Senator. There are a few things we still know about such a change, if we would simply eliminate the loss of employment. We know that's not the cause of expansion. We know that's a small thing for state funds. We know that it activates all older citizens who have the ability and will to win. And the simple system in my mind is too important because the deterioration in the social security system is, in my opinion, a very large reason for the injustice that occurs there because people cannot seek justice if they do not understand a system. It will make it harder to find out who has rights at first, and second, of course, it is just too difficult to fix things. I think it might be a good try because it would be measurable. We already have some numbers. Hv. One senator noted that the source of that number is about 13% if I understand correctly. I wondered if she would grow up and how much higher she would be if she didn't have any impairments. What kind of labor would we be evading? Because a lot of older people can do quite a job, and they can earn some income, but they don't do it because they get smaller. 100 you have. K. The pay target is in line with a very low number of pay. [[The point is, to say the least.]] That's all there is to it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator rightly points out. What I'm thinking, anyway, is it's gonna be harmless at all odds. It's not expensive, and I think I'd give a glimpse, hopefully, into the way we would deal with a similar future problem, since we have a group of people with low employment activities for other reasons in the future, to have experimented with them when we know they're at most harmless.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u154	Mr. President. I don't think there's anything wrong with looking at this. You can well ask yourself, " How does this affect me? ' I think it would be good for society if more older citizens could win. It is not only a matter of getting more hands at the table but also a matter of disrupting social isolation and maintaining physical performance and health much longer. I remember that the decision of a 67 - year - old pension age in my day was one of lifelike prospects at that time. I'm sure they've increased by 20 years. As the nation grows older, these things are likely to be revised, becoming more refreshing and healthy. In fact, I think it would be an overrated impact on the more part of the job because it seems to me that when you look at your age, 673/470 or 70-75, and so out of here, this is, I think, a little bit of work and ability to do. I don't think there are many e.g. After 80 years of work, it is possible to do a lot of work. But I'm sure I'd like to take a look at it. If the highest. A minister is talking about how they will listen to the government opposition and take on good ideas, and then one member of the general body will likely be listening to good ideas from another government official.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u155	A respectable president. Now there's not much time to discuss anything particularly, but I'd like to discuss just capital taxes and the ideas that appear both in the budget itself, as well as in a discussion that has taken place elsewhere on creating another tax base on a fiscal tax tax tax tax. I have not formed a final opinion of all of this, and with the advance that I discuss it mainly in view of the fact that if we are going to make a change now that includes an increase in capital income tax increase from 20% to 22%, we need to understand the context of decisions that might later come about changing the tax base of capital income. Because of watching the General Assembly rather than having a part in the work for about a year, I know that at times the audience is not entirely part of the conversation that takes place here, so I wonder how I get it out of my system so clearly. However, the tax from capital income is today 20%, and it is suggested that it be increased to 22%. Tax stock of capital gains, i.e. The amount taxed is the result on a bank account or something like that. When using such types of names as tax bases for capital gains, it means in the current system that the merits of insurance in the heart, to form savings, or something like that, i.e. As the individual rises according to the index, the increase associated with inflammation is part of the name growth. Which means, in fact, that inflation, if you can say this a little inaccessible, you're also taxed. You could put it that way, maybe a little indiscriminate. The idea of changing this so that the tax stock is actually a product of growth means that this inflation part of the increase in endogenous growth is no longer taxated, but only the inflation beyond the inflation. It's a bit of a big change. Two percentage points to or from an increase or decrease in capital income taxes, I believe, is extremely low in relation to that. In fact, the change in the tax stock is based on how fluctuating inflation we're going to get used to in Iceland all the way around here, that's the change being offered extremely insignificant, to me, by the side of the system change that's being proposed in another way, not in this bill, so we're going to do it. I've been thinking a little bit about whether I feel that the tax stock is such a name because inflation is also taxated or if it should be real growth that separates it. I am not quite at the conclusion, as I opened my speech to mention. But there is one thing that I feel uncomfortable with the present arrangement. If people save their money by depositing prices, which they can do if they can afford on another level, and since name fruits are used as tax stocks, in the event of a sudden rise in in inflation, realism can become negative. It's like what happened in the crash. It will be an inflation, and the real product of the people who are saving money can become negative. This does not mean that the amount of money itself decreases, which means that it does not match the rate of inflation and reduces the value of real estate. That makes me feel silly and uncomfortable. However, the problems we face are very similar to the result of our very inflatable economy over our heads. So it's possible, again, perhaps a little indiscriminate, to say that there's a certain kind of insurance set. That would be an inaccurate term. I would ask for another word, and using the wrong word can cause complications. But that's dangerous to me. I'd like to ask for a little more discussion about whether it's normal that when we make a decision to make the income, we'll accept some insurance advising of the tax stocks. I also find it unusual for the same reason that insurance itself is unusual. I don't object to insurance. But I feel that it is important and can give reasons why I feel that insurance needs to be an option, not an option, not an option, for a borrower. But this is where we're talking about a tax that's supposed to apply to everybody. Well, then we'll have a little bit of trouble. I haven't finally made up my mind, but I wanted to mention it and explain it so we could have a little more discussion about it. I think it's bigger than people realize.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u156	Mr. President. My purpose is not to extend the discussion or get a group of people to a meeting board. But it was specifically said at the scene of the Synods and the presidents that there were ministers in the hall. They may now be here just outside of listening. It's a little bit like when you turn off the lights in the damp-filled rooms, it's filled with little bugs. But I think it's quite normal for ministers to be here. And if they can't all be here at once, in whom I have full understanding, then they divided themselves into works. It's a routine, e.g. in plain factories. They work in shifts, and one goes, and another comes. There may be four here at a time. But I think it's rude. It is particularly interesting that there is no cabinet minister left green here and, however, were quite diligent last year in coming up to the President's conference board under the same circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u157	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the hard work the board's employees have worked to complete a bill for the budget. This is an enormous task that has been done in short periods of time and with great difficulty. I'm going to generally review the points I'd like to draw attention to the factors involved in education and culture in the budget. The minister of finance has already discussed the bill in general and considered it as a whole. During the short time I have not yet had the opportunity to go to each group of lawsuits, I will address the key factors related to the emphasis of the new government covenant. Six sectors of the bill fall, in part or in part, under the educational and cultural institutions of the Ministry. Total expenditures for projects in 2018 are estimated to be 102.7 billion at the base of the network. Direct donations from the state budget account for some $90.4 billion, but management income for these projects is about $3.3 billion. In the bill, the costs of education and cultural projects increase by 5.5 billion between year and year, or corresponding to a 5.6% increase in expenses taking into account the impact of overall pay and prices changes. These increased contributions to the Ministry's Environment reflect the promises made in the Treaty of a new government for a large educational and cultural application. The increase from the last government to education and culture is very high, it's about 2.6 billion. If we just want to play with numbers, the last addition is about 90 percent. A powerful educational system is essential to progress and lays the groundwork for the nation's continued prosperity. So I first mention contributions to the university, which increase by 1,250 million. K. from the bill submitted in September. With this increase, it is intended to promote both teaching and research so that there can be added services to students, increase scientific work, and strengthen international cooperation. I am happy to agree with what we have published in the book of the University of Iceland from yesterday onward, that this is a tangible step toward equal funding for Iceland's University and University in the North countries. This contributes to the advancement of university education and research at the level of neighboring countries in Iceland. Teams in applying this focus are reviewing the algorithms used to fundamentally finance college and high school levels. In September, contributions to high school increase about $400 million above what was expected. This further emphasis is placed on achieving university funding goals and following changes following short-term studies to the student's test and meeting the challenges we face, i.e. Disintegration of education, and taking real steps to promote industry and engineering in the country. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, work is already started on the mapping of the high school system, and a detailed analysis is taking place on the status and development of high school. There will be a schedule to counteract this elimination, as mentioned earlier. The work will be carried out after work as a High School and as a result of pre-supervising students at risk of elimination and the cause of elimination. In the field of culture and art, there are two things to be said: A project for showing nature in the Pearl to an amount of 290 million. K. This brings us to meet a long - awaited dream of being able to show a portion of the Museum of Nature of Iceland. On the one hand, there is a slow pace in financing a five - year language system. It is expected that the project will cover the year 20188/2022, and the total cost may be worth up to $3.3 billion. A respectable president. I'd just like to move on to two questions as a matter of course. The members of the council mentioned earlier, but I can see that many have already asked for the word so that I may review it afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u158	A respectable president. I welcome many of the highest. A minister intends to do and wishes her well and knows that she will do her best. I'm particularly glad to hear about the language and that the Icelanders finally run away with the lies about a Museum of Nature. I remember a meeting I had at the campaign at the branch office in Reykjavík, where we represented several volunteers. There, all of us expressed our keen interest in canceling valuable tax on books. It was in the highest category. Education minister, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, even speaking of her heart. She's talking about high education, and I don't question whether I want to do it. But I'm asking if the value tax on books is, with reference to a poem eftir Megas, a huge parish sacrifice to show you. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for his introductory. The Treaty states that there will be a change in the taxation of Icelandic languages, music, and books. The first step must be to eliminate the worthy tax on books. The financial and economic services needed a little more time to prepare this change, and we take it into consideration. But it's clear that it's going to be done. That is clearly stated in the Treaty, and I look forward to doing this work because it really is important. We know that the environment of the bookmakers has deteriorated significantly, and the 2008 recession is more than 30%, and I understand that there is even more recession this year. There is a parapolitic agreement on this matter, and it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u160	I appreciate that answer. I trust that the good feeling that this answer describes will come true. I remember this meeting we were at the branch office saying that there was one candidate who stood out, that was Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who volunteered for an independent party and now no longer serves at a council. He objected to canceling a valuable tax on books because he wanted to fit in, and you got the feeling that he was speaking the language of the system, he was a man thinking the way the system thinks. You got the impression that he was even the only man there who was completely honest. But I ask: Is it possible that in the system there are still dominant forces that have more to say about this than the political, broad, general will?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson for the question. This is a matter of utmost urgency. That's very important to us. It is quite clear, and we see to it that we make up the money we're putting on the grammatical project, the making Icelandic currency in a digital world, that it shows the mind of this government, what it is ready to invest in the Icelandic language, and what we're going to do. I don't think that as far as this emphasis is concerned, there's no system that controls it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u162	A respectable president. I'm a bit preoccupied with this term "supervised." We'll see if we compare it. I scolded the left green, now I'm just gonna be a little bit forward. Where's the big college advance? These are words that the classes themselves use. Is that in mind the highest part? Minister of the department, when the increase is 1◯3%? It seems like the situation is today. Let's take a look at high school. MR is increased by 3%, the University of Akureyri 3%, the University of High School of Hamrabid 0.4%, FB 1.3%, the old Minister of Education, Flensburg School of more than 2%. The college has an increase of about 4%. This is not a major school application. That's why I want the Minister's definition of when the increase in money is a big offense and when it's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u163	A respectable president. I think most people would agree that the more emphasis this government puts on academic and cultural matters is very clear. I allow myself to witness to the National College Council of Iceland and how it takes a new budget bill. They say that finally there is a tangible step in making university levels comparable to what happens in other OECD countries and in other countries. So I think a lot of people see this whole thing differently than what they see. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson Another thing I'd like to mention, and I'd like to tell him: He said earlier today, claiming to make a fortune for 600 million dollars. during high school, you would still be in effect. I can tell you what. A senator does not. In fact, I know that there has not been much time to review the bill, but the real increase to high school is 400 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u164	A respectable president. It's good to be a top dog. The minister came into this because I'm going to enter the exact same point in my second answer. Yes, there are 400 million people in high school, which is an increase of 1.8%, and then you turn the page on, and this is a TV. Minister, we're talking about 580 million. K. Maintenance requirement. Is this a misunderstanding, then, that's the end of the story? I don't think we have high school for 580 million. K. A permanence requirement, as it stands on the bill today?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u165	A respectable president. As I told you before, there's an actual increase of 400 million. K. into high school. Then I'd like to mention something else as a boy. A senator came in on research, but he said that there was no research work. However, that seems to have a total of 1,250 million at the University of Iceland. As a result, 274 million go to the university themselves for research, and 250 million go to an anniversary fund. Part of it goes to research. All talk that we don't raise money for research is simply wrong. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u166	A respectable president. I have two questions I'd like to ask you. First, increases to the university level in the bill are expected in 2018 and then again according to plan 2019. I asked earlier today if it was part of an average educational OECD, especially where there is no increase of 2020. I wondered, " Is my goals achieved by 2019? ' If not, I would like to ask, " How much would we need to reach an average OECD now? ' How much more would it take to reach the northern continent's average by comparison with the current figures?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The question is given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Hv. A senator asks what the increase would be in 2019 and 2020 if we were to reach the OECD average, which is about $1.7 billion both years. As shown in the government's reign, we are going to get there in 2020. But I'd also like to reiterate that we'll reevaluate the algorithm. We look at them in other countries, what they've been doing, and there's a very close partnership between our university and our university to form in Holland and in other parts of the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u168	A respectable president. If I understand correctly on Plan 2019, this number is the right number to reach the average, but it's 2020. If it was confirmed, it'd be fine. Another question that I would like to ask about is a conservative requirement. On page 322 it says, with the permission of a president: The budget range within the box that will be used to provide contributions for new or increased projects is expected, a total of 880.7 million. K. After the pay range has been dropped by 227.2 billion. K. Maintenance requirements for the topic field I'm interested in how large a college claim is made, over 800 million, 20% seems to me or 2%, I can't think of a punk, I have to write this down in advance. The device mask is at least Very high. I don't see her in the picture that's above, the way she shows up, or, usually, why it works as a stunner when she's always taken off the paybed. [[The president calls.]] We cannot keep track of the budget how it is being implemented for the replacement of new projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u169	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator on the possibility to increase transparency in the presentation. This may at times work somewhat confusingly, especially when we have relatively little time to review key numbers. I take it very seriously that is presented in a case. A senator, who will consider whether to simplify the presentation so that we do not argue about numbers like this. But the main thing is that we greatly increase funds to the university level, increase donations for research and innovation. I really look forward to taking the road ahead of me to improving the university state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u170	Mr. President. I'd like to take the top. Minister only out of his legal league. There is quite a lot of talk about large attendances, exorbitant efforts in many areas. In view of the total pay increase from the previous year's budget bill submitted in the fall, it seems to be about 16 billion, of which about half are the result of a weakness on the basis of the bill, the joints that had to be calculated from an increase in financial need. Thus, there is a search for the great attendance mentioned in a new budget bill. But there is more to search for. Former platoon members at the highest. Ministers have looked for considerable emphasis on the forwardness of this group and have not found it. I'd like to ask about two factors that the pack put on a high priority in the implementation of elections, which was the Swiss way of housing and then again special changes in the tax system in order to meet the lowest paying and to increase tax limits. Neither appears to be found in the policy of a new government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u171	A respectable president. You know, about a question or two. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson regarding the Swiss route, says in the Treaty that we are going to work on a way to help young people find a place to live. One factor is to take the Swiss route. We have also said that it is extremely important that the forward side is satisfactory in this regard. We know that if we place a large increase in money in the demand side, house prices will rise. But that is certainly true in the government covenant, and we are going to work at making it easier for young people to get into the house market. Hv. A senator asked how we were going to meet the income - bearing groups. It is work that we turn our eyes toward, i.e. how to make the system more practical for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u172	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I would like to know more about this, though. The Swiss route is the use of special savings, but the advance team has announced to make use of the overall security that the labor movement has strongly opposed. At the same time, the government places much emphasis on a good job peace. I'd be interested to hear how it rhymes. The rest, in terms of the tax system changes, is quite clear, and one of the very clears in the administration contract, is not to lower the lower tax step. It's very helpful for all the earners of income, and it doesn't change much of a tax limit. That's why I don't quite understand how these tax reforms, i.e. the decrease - let us say that it is a percentage on the lower level - useful to the most efficient group. What, then, is the system modification of the income tax system that was offered in the focus of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u173	A respectable president. It is clear that this government is going to improve the economy of the lowest income. We are willing to cooperate, cooperate with the labor movement, the government opposition, and all those who can bring good ideas and advice to make the most of their financial resources. We are ready to examine changes in the tax system and have actually begun to do so. But like a dog. A senator knows it is very difficult to review the details, especially when approaching delicate points relating to conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u174	A respectable president. Thoughts such as starving policy, big offense, connection to 2% and fair glasses - this is all raw material in extremeism, or at least Interesting, discussion. In view of the fact that we've agreed to continue running this case, as it is possible to allow that discussion to wait, and to resolve on certain matters that I included in the budgetary bill. But I'd like to start by saying something. Despite the short time we are given in this discussion, a respectable president, I take good care of this arrangement. I'm glad that here are senators in the driver's seat and the Ministers, so mostly, sitting and calling them. I hope this is the beginning, that we can make it. I like this more political discussion. It gives me more. It is my food, that it may be kept ready. I'd like to start by focusing on foreign affairs at the highest level. Minister in the hall. First only to the government covenant. There is nothing about Iceland's interest in communication with the European Union, but it does take good care that Iceland's interests need to be taken care of in leaving British resources from the European Union. This is certainly important, because the British are one of our biggest business people. However, regardless of the feelings of governments toward the European Union, it is a fact, as well as with full respect for the British, that Iceland's business relationship with the European Union is several times more important in this comparison than any other. So I'd have thought it proper to ask at least such as one phrase to make it important if you are speaking in the covenant about the importance of foreign transactions at any other time. Let's leave it. In the part of the State, I am still in the Treaty, it is certainly noted that one of the most important interests in Iceland is performing the European Economic Convention properly. Hence, according to the Ministry's priorities, it must be a high priority for the introduction. There is certainly a sign in the budget of the budget that says that we should not promote Iceland's interest management in the shape of EEA legislation and introduce all EU legislation in time to ensure that there is always the same rules as competition at the EEA market. It's as if we know that if Iceland doesn't do well in induction, it's that Icelandic citizens don't get the full cost of the internal market. In the face of a foreign law, it seems that, in spite of the marvelous promises in the Treaty and the aims of a financial bill itself, the government does not intend to put up with these duties according to the EEA agreement and what it will do when it comes to follow-up and interest management, at least Not according to the words that have fallen before, to the lack of money. However, in the foreign financial sector, 62 billion are expected. K. a year for three years because of Baltrexone. I can't see any better than it's almost the same money as it's marked in the EEA. As a result, the government of the left green, independent party, and forward is going to put more than 60 billion. K. each year to support - or I really need to ask the highest. A minister in what money should go beyond what it is in general for its foreign policy and has the means to finance it, why it is the great interest there, and would want support for that priorities. It's certainly been my sense of at least one of the reasons why we're the underdogs of other countries in bringing in the Regulation on the basis of EU partnership is a lack of money. There's one thing. I would appreciate that logic. On the one hand, I would like to keep my eye on the tourism. Government contracts plan to increase the value tax for tourism, while other methods are being explored. In particular, there is the possibility of looking at the pressures on coming or leaving fees. In fact, the cost of staying to rural society during the election period should also be changed so that it becomes relative. In my sense, it's a merit tax, but okay. Certainly, then, a government contract speaks of a long - term travel policy. It will soon become a very tired announcement, that we are about to develop a course in the ministry. Also, there's a lot to do. They are to support the quality of your research, which is to be properly built up, to evaluate needs, and to complete diagnostics, etc. [[The president calls.]] I'm running out of time. That's not good. I still have to go over a little bit and finish my question. The time passed when the Independence Party has been in power has been marked by a lot of trouble in terms of the payoff. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask: Is it so that the travel service, under the government of the Independence Party, Left Green and Progress, will be an example of another basic work based on Icelandic resources without using that resource to make fair payment to the public, owners? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u175	The President reminds us of what? Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There's been some criticism of the government because the government's deal is not long enough. I must now refer that criticism to my father's house. I think it's long enough. The nature of a case is not everything in it. When it comes to Iceland's interests on business with the EEA market, there is something I don't think is a special reason to enter a government contract, it's a permanent project, it's not time. Now we put it all in place, i.e. the costs associated with the implementation of the EEA Convention and the changes planned for e.g. With regard to Iceland, as well as the changes that have been listed in the summer work group report and now work on it. Today, there were 150 suggestions and 30 have been carried out and 90 will be carried out in this wintertime, making it a very important point to support our foreign market application. So I don't think there's any particular reason to say that. We have every reason to believe that if we are going to maintain our competitiveness and maintain a profit, we need to make a significant increase in our import every year. That, of course, is the very essence. Much of this is now being done when it comes to foreign service. In terms of Baltrexit, this is our second most important market, we have tremendously high value that we have the same terms that we have now and that we have a better one. The nature of the situation, according to the priorities of the situation, is the time for the British to walk out of the European Union. I don't think 63 million is a big amount, and the amount is actually higher because we have set our priorities for this interest right from the moment this case came up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I agree that it is important to consider these business relationships wherever they are and to promote them. However, I would like to think more deeply of my question. V.E.G. One minister says that this amount, a new sum, this special factor 62 million a year, is in addition to the amount already set aside. That's totally normal. One would think that it is the role of the Ministry of State and the capital that is directed there to deal with just the circumstances that exist at any given time. So again, I ask and they ask about the harbinger we live in and have been criticized by our clients on the other hand and, on the other hand, affects the interests of the Icelanders in this large area: Why isn't it appreciated so that they can also get financial support for it - why exactly this priorities? And again with respect to the British markets, which is still clearly smaller than the open market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u178	A respectable president. It has already been prioritized in an effort to work in the draft hall, the least of which is in the Ministry of State. It's in other areas. It would be very strange if funds were given to the Ministry of State to work at them. It's mostly in the fauna. For the EEA Treaty, this is one of the proposed agreements and will provide suggestions, because it matters, not only, but also trying to influence what concerns our interests. This has been done by installing the EEA database which will hopefully be sooner than later available to the public than it already has. I also plan to offer suggestions that were in the spirit of what appeared in a 2007 report, led by Björn Bjarnason's son, who aims to influence us at levels where we can influence. It's the first phase. We would especially look at the white books that come from the European Union and try, when something is wrong with us, as it has often been about the introductions of the EEA, using our influence in the early stages. I know why. A senator may not have been asking specifically about this, but it has to do with these matters. The big thing is that the work on Baltrexit is not covered by cost because this work will benefit us in a lot more. It's still not clear that we will see the movement of the free shopping contracts in the immediate future, including the rest of the year. Because of British plans to have what they call international Britain, they are interested in making free trade agreements after they go out and get their own independent business policy. We have seen that the European Union has, among other things, been the European Union. Move faster in this direction following it. This is something that we as a vacation - store nation need to be very alert. To do that, we need to do our homework and take the initiative, especially in the organization that handles this for us, I'm referring to EFTA. [[The president calls.]] So the work being done today will be useful in many more than just our commercial agreements and the British.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u179	A respectable president. Thank you. I must admit that I am completely incompetent in this discussion because I felt I had one more question left. But I'm learning this, because I was now urging that this form be continued. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers and understands that it is certainly not intended to be interested in Bgret and the work to be done in terms of the cost of induction. Although many of them are being heard by the Ministry of Ministers, I now assume the State Department is holding that hat and that job. I'm just wondering, and I think it's important that when it comes to Britain leaving the European Union, we'll expect, at least, initially, contact them in a vacation shop through EFTA as a Third Reich. That's not necessarily so, I see it at a minister's look. That's what I wanted to ask him. I believe that, I'm going to be prophetic here and now, that we're going to take a Bgret speech here, not too long. [[Taken out on: I hope so.]] I appreciate this discussion for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u180	Mr. President. First, I'm going to say the word. A senator about the arrangement. I think it's more efficient, more political, and more alive, and the council is leading more of the arrangements. That's good. I'm also going to make you happy. A senator by saying that long-term policy has begun, which I celebrate. It has been discussed for a long time, and it is always mentioned when men are calling them, saying that it is time to start. So she will now find her way into this council. For the currency. The Treaty states that plans to move the tourism to a general level of respect for the tax system are put aside. It tells us to consider the charge to come. Of course, that is an old discussion and new one. However, it is in such a way that, of course, we have a host tax that has now been raised. The market used to make income, e.g. ... thefinishedfinance of tourist status. Now that we've taken it out of the way, we've raised the tax and are setting up funds for tourism and national planning as well. In fact, we've also changed the traffic laws, so the parking lot has been allowed by rural society, it's being done. Then there is also a certain currency. So just general. I believe it's time to put a dot behind the CREEP speech. It clearly matters to the public, and I think the article itself wants to start putting a dot behind that discussion. I have high hopes that we will be able to finish this matter. I intend to, with the assistance of the government, the council, and the full discussion of the article, to complete this matter. I'd like to see, if it were due, that it was directly linked to the structure of a natural bulb, so it remained completely in the hands. Then you can call it an environmental fee or whatever else you want to call it to make it sound good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u181	Thank you very much. Minister of travel very much for the answer. Looks like it's on the right track. It's good to keep that in mind because it's clear that over the past few years, there's a lot of trouble in the handling and stress management of this big business, and I agree with it by the highest level. Minister. It's sometimes forgotten during the discussion that this wild West success of our natural sphere not only results in irreversible destruction but also undermines companies in the article, preferably companies who have had the vision to offer up animals and special services that give us the most worthwhile value. I'd like to quote the words of the chairman of the team's team, the left green, the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, when she spoke about finance policy last March with permission of the president: ▪ I agree with those who have spoken here for the taxation of tourism. I personally proposed such taxation on the payment of the last budget, on return expenses that would be taken up. And in reality, it is completely unexplained that the Council failed to respond to the development of a more reasonable and fair taxation in that article. I wondered, " Can I understand that in the highest words? ' Prime Minister that we are ready for this. Because of fear of movement, however, it gives you anxiety that once again the matter is to be examined. Meetings are good and necessary, but there are few who rejoice when discussing taxation, even if it is at the top of my line. A minister here that many in this article are becoming anxious after the end of this discussion. I'd just like to get out, is it within the governments that they agree to join in? Or is this one of the points that will be considered in the years ahead with the prospect of continued trouble? Do these matters make sense?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u182	Mr. President. I believe within the government the cooperation of the government is to complete this case. That is very clear in the government covenant. Of course, making it out is everything. Even though this was examined some years ago, the case came in and didn't get paid, it just has to pick up the thread where it was left off. We don't have to start with a zero point in the discussion. To me, this isn't exactly about income gains. Of course, it can be reasoned that tourists who come to enjoy nature should pay the cost of the cost, not the taxpayers. On the other hand, travel services pay up to tens of billions of dollars to the state's funds. There's something in that when they say that if one man saved us in the collapse, it was a tourist. I believe, however, that the discussion is part of the social limitations we need to be alert to. I think that's what tourism is gonna do, too. That is why, both in order to show that politics works and that decisions can be made as well as for tourism, to extend our hand too, that we must agree to complete this matter. But, of course, it matters. Of course, not everyone will be happy. It is not uncommon for men and women to leap out joyfully when proposed for some kind of currency. Also, when we discussed plans for the merit tax, it was found that people prefer something else. And when it's done, nobody has to tell me that perfect peace will rule over it. But that's just part of the project we have to do. I think it's time to put a dot behind the discussion, but we also need to remember that we already have a variety of payments for the services rendered. It's just good. So I'd like to spend more time discussing what's been done. When it comes to the fact that nothing has done or that there is so much kaos, I don't agree with it. In many ways, all of this works out very well. However, long-term development of tourism is of utmost importance to ensure that nature enjoys the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u183	Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. If a minister was referring to my statement that kaos ruled in a travel service, they turned to currency plans for tourism, not to travel services in general, which is a profession of great respect to me. I agree in a certain way that this is not about the currency of i.e. It's all in between. Still, we are involved in a industry, one of our basic sectors, rather, based on national property. It is important for the nation to receive a fair price for the use of that article. And it is important that governments have the courage and strength to complete this case in the opening years of this industry so that they do not get involved in the prerogatives of some situation that then takes years and decades. We are familiar with such examples. That's why I'm celebrating the Super Bowl. A traveling minister who is looking forward to seeing the progress of the situation and will support the fine work being done in this article. - Thanks for the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u184	President. I wanted to start by saying that this group of subjects, welfare, is a big group of paintings. I don't deal with enough in 1st. but I'm going to focus on a few things. Earlier today, it was spoken of the need for the government to understand that all problems could not be solved in the first year. Of course, I have a full understanding of that. However, the first year is evidence of what should come. Building a more reasonable community is not just about the amount of funds or the amount of money you need to make for each case but about how the budget is spent. According to the bill now, the specific increase in the rate of progress of the microenergy pensioner target is expected, which means that the specific extension will be increased. This is an example of an increase that looks very good on paper, but the real effect on microbiological life becomes minor, with a dollar - a - dollar cut across most of the increase. Once again, negative activities are being enhanced within the social security system while the objective of the group is to encourage disability to work. It would have been much more effective and in line with the above - specified aim as well as the aim of the simple biofuel system to reimburse and move its maximum amount of money into the income insurance, which is independent of a dollar versus a dollar's decrease, anyway, in terms of employment income. Piranians come up with the matter of Congress, and I hope that the matter will be taken seriously because the most effective way to encourage disability to work is to reduce a cent against a dollar's impairment. According to the financial bill on this issue, work management is not to be limited but instead to emphasise quality assessment. It says that the work programme should replace a medical disability assessment that may be applied to emphasising a person's ability to work. Much of the increase we look forward to in the incidence of disability is because people are being overcome in a work market because of stress and stress. I would have thought that would be rather obvious evidence that something is failing in the community that we've chosen. There's something that's not quite right in our society when people fell from a job market because of mental and musculoskeletal disorders. When the solution to the problem is to get these people back into the environment in which they are ill to begin with, and it is as soon as possible. I feel like we're thinking this wrong. It is clear from the Independence Party's policy list for elections that there is support for achieving a work-by-adversity assessment but in special discussions on the interest of micro-organists on February 1, 2017, the left movement raised a raised doubts about the quality of the assessment. However, there was little evidence of the progress in this matter. So I'm curious to know what the highest position is. The social and equality minister is, both in terms of the performance assessment and also in terms of reducing a dollar to a dollar's degree or removing it completely. Then I'm thinking about this in the context of a social security catalyst. I'd also like to ask the highest. Minister. We may soon be able to see the matter of temporary extensions on the NFL. I'm about to increase the contracts to 80, but I'd like to know when it'll take effect. Will this increase be just as early as January, or will it come later? And if we're up to 80, because I understand that this increase costs about 70 million, why not increase to 100? That would be 70 million more, not that much money? It would address the need in the community, in this group, for such service. That's not that much. I don't understand why we don't go to 100. The need seems to be much more than 80.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. To begin with, I look forward to cooperating with her and with all the committees. There's a lot to say. A senator I can completely agree with. I'm going to start by getting to the core that turns to the budget bill and then we're going into other matters. The government's policy is to work on the valuation. It has already been discussed with the Quantum Community and Developmental Help. But to do so in very close and good cooperation with these people. We are also aware of the doubts and anxieties these groups face in this work. But how important it is also to maintain that at that job, the importance of reevaluating the social security system associated with it! I share my mind. The senator's concern that all the failings and motivations in the system need to be different from those of today's world. It will depend on this review work and will already be announced. I've already discussed this with both the organizations I've mentioned, the Microcolleacy and the Developmental Help, and, like, other people involved in this, like those of the labour market. There is great concern that just the types of work that is being done and the number of jobs that are being performed simply will not be offered. Then I'd like to say that to all these matters and also the way the organization will be, how we reach the 300 thousand dollars right now, I come to this level with a very open mind, and I'm already considering which ways and options we have in this material, but the conclusion is not yet reached. Then I want to enter the first part of the talk, which is a matter of concern. A senator may have young people today, perhaps coming into her room later, for time is over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u186	President. I appreciate the answers. Minister. It's just very encouraging. I also look forward to a good cooperation. I'd like to allow the highest. Ministers to finish their answer and to add one of the things I received by e - mail from people who wrote me about the resources available in the Children's Institute of Treatment, which was a most tragic reading, and I know the highest. Similarly, a minister has been sent, referring to the resources available to be the failure of children, their child, and other children. Their lives are only in danger because of this. It is the responsibility of our senators and ministers that resources are available for children who are struggling, and it is our responsibility that these resources work. I know it's the highest. A minister has received e - mail from this parent. Their business remains. I realize we all have a lot to do these days, but at the height of it all. A minister is eager to take this action because it is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u187	A respectable president. I'm sleeping on that question. Recently, child - welfare issues have been very much discussed in the media. This is one of the issues being considered in the Ministry. But I don't think there's any reason to discuss it so deep here in the Hall at this time. I also wanted to come in with that as well. The senator spoke earlier, the position. I kind of felt like I could give a talk. When she expressed concern about what is going on with young people at work, how it feels to get out of a job market. These are especially young people who suffer from mental illness, depression, and so forth. It's simply something wrong in our system. We've put in all kinds of resources, measures, and so forth. These problems, however, are simply still growing, especially between 18 and 30 years of age. There are striking numbers, as I've come in here earlier today, and also in my sentence speech yesterday, that there are a thousand persons between 18 and 30 years of age registered for job search. That group is about one quarter of all jobseekers. There is no need for jobs, but these people are just not attending. There's something wrong in the system. I don't think the welfare system is doing a good job, and enough early for young people and supporting it. We are always discussing how we are going to solve the problems of the people in this place, but we need to move the discussion to how we can prevent so many people from reaching this place. I look forward to cooperating with what. A senator and a chief. well-being committee for this job, because I think there's a lot of system changes to be needed. I don't know exactly what they are involved, but I'm concerned that the welfare system isn't doing too well and that it's early enough. This is a discussion we need to take, and we need to discuss how we can change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u188	President. Yes, thank you for these answers. How encouraging that is! I just look forward to sitting down with the highest. Minister and maybe talk to him about civilian pay. I think it might be a little fun. As a possible option in simplifying the social security system and in the system changes that could actually make many lives much better. Or, at least, first of all, that's something I know I'll be using for the head of a welfare committee, that this matter will be accepted into the committee, examined completely, and hopefully paid for the council. It's just about setting up a committee and studying a way to change the welfare system and the social security system. I'm looking forward to the partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u189	V.E.G. President. Now that we first discuss the bill to the 2018 budget of three, I have to admit that the person standing here is by no means finished reading it for his own benefit in the space of a day from which it was delivered to us members of the Parliament. Most of the things I've figured out and read about have been discussed today, yet I'm going to make the best of what I understood. The expected 35 billion dollars remain positive, even if that is lower than expected in the last budget bill, but now as a result of an increased budget to the wood, it has fallen. Many have waited for increased injections in the wood. There are a few things I have seen, and that includes the insurance bill. All classes agreed in the campaign to reduce insurance fees, simply for the reason that at present there is a minimum unemployment in history as well as other factors. As far as insurance costs are concerned, the law doesn't say so as far as I can get next. One of the first works of a new government was to be taken out of the price tax of books. That's not why we're going on the budget bill. Yet, it is in the government covenant. Many of the bookmakers in this country give up because of their hard work and turn to foreign lands after printing because the price of books is at the most historically high among us who have called us a book nation at times. Admittedly, a step is in the right direction to raise the elderly's leisure market from 25 o'clock. of 100 you. K. Why, though, are older citizens not allowed to work without a pension? If they can and/or will, they will pay a income tax that, of course, will come into a state fund if they did spend more. The work that pleases man is a language that is by no means possible for all of us. I have often seen that people lose their health if they stop working because of their age, working in a job market, but are both healthy and interested in being allowed to work longer. Should this not be listed under public health? I haven't had much of a choice for disability, since they were to be named under the government covenant. Talkers say that a step - change of person's heart would change much on its own if they went to that job. Sheep farmers are in emergency situations, and they talked about dealing with them immediately, but they can't tell anything about it in the bill, and many farmers are on their way to bankruptcy because of their condition. The fact that sheep's prayers are large for various reasons, all groups agreed to the preelection that in the emergency situation, an immediate action would be required. However, there are some who do not have considerable access to health care so that you are reasonable. Yet, I heard from health - care people that they doubted that this would be enough to reach past zero. Thus, the surgeon's testimony in an interview may be that it is not necessarily the lack of money that plagued the health system but the lack of organization and is interesting to hear when the director of the Land Hospital is constantly talking about money control. Then I thought from the book Iceland Clock by Halldór Laxness that Jón Hreggviðsson said that it wasn't the repentance of the Icelanders'hope, that's rather because of lack of snow. Of course, it's an outcast. Teachers complained about a great deal of stress over social changes in the school system that were done a few years ago, but they did not follow funding. So the pressure on teachers has increased, but the pay is not up - to - date. Social benefits and improvements in housing are not mentioned. Not everyone wants and/or has a chance to buy a home. There's been reports of successful transport improvements. If you look closely, there is a difference between the last budget and what is now only 1.5 billion more. [[The president calls.]] And on baseball 600 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u190	A respectable president. In this brief figure, I would like to go on to just what I thought would shine through in the government covenant, during his presentation, and turn to the tax issues, i.e. that local tax increases will be immediately observed, tax reductions will be reviewed during the season. It's the tone I was rather frustrated with, but this is how it can be. There are three things I want to come in on. It's the insurance bill. In fact, during the campaign, there was some agreement that there was room to reduce it. The situation today is that employment life is paying just about 20 billion more per year than if the taxprofen was the same as it was 2007. That's not gonna happen. It's still added, i.e. approximately 8.2% increase of the strain between years. This is due to pay, increased employment, and then additional expenses, or increased extra payer in a pension fund. I wanted to curious about it at the highest. The secretary of the budget may have considered reducing the pressure percentage due to this increased currency. Then there's another thing I'd like to come in on, that's the carbon tax. He's now up 50%. In the context of that rise, the highest is spoken. Environment Minister for a reexamination of green taxes which I give myself to be won in his cooperation and the highest. Secretary of finance. It would be interesting to hear what men see in raising taxes by the 50% greeting, with the permission of a respectable president: You ain-thest useing yet. Once you've talked about it being 100% and there's plenty to go down there. What does one envision in these respects? Of course, this trade involves land, sea, and air - a considerable amount of money. The third fiasco I would like to come on, which I think is somewhat different from what could be expected from the Government Treaty, is the capital tax. The fiscal tax is now being increased by 10% without any change in the existing taxpayer. I think most people sensed it when the government's statement was made that government funds were going to get these taxes from real estate, not by name, as they did so far. That would have made this 10% tax increase so much more reasonable and probably more reasonable. But the evidence for this was part of the fact that this made the tax system more reasonable. But now that only one catheter is run through, i.e. A 10% tax increase on the fiscal tax, you can only ask, "Where's the fair in that? Then there's one question to the highest. Secretary of finance here at the end. The total budget of the budget bill, that's a lot of numbers. It would be interesting to know where he would prefer to reduce the government's expenses in relation to what is now being presented. Everyone who's come into business knows that when the numbers are high and the expenses are high, there's plenty of room to cut down or pull together. It would be interesting to hear the highest perspective. Minister of this matter; the Environment Minister for what he provides in green taxes, in addition to the continuing rise of carbon taxes and of the secretary of finance on the issues I covered here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u191	A respectable president. I would like to respond to some comments, and questions are about taxes. It's also called for the highest vision. Environment Minister of the green taxes, but I find it necessary to point out that this financial bill has departed from the proclamation of a policy stored by the state-of-the-art budget approved for last spring. That, however, is a significant blow to the number of over 5 billion increases in fuel that were announced since January 1. Nevertheless, there is a 50% increase in carbon costs that will continue to increase according to the implementation of climate change measures. I'd like to say with regard to the fiscal tax, it's important that we take the stock to see and take the tax target, though, only to understand how we're paying taxes in Iceland today as compared to other countries. Thus, in this hall it is often said that we have a lower tax on capital pay or higher. The opinion I want to implement at the Ministry is intended to promote a better comparison. Everyone knows the discussion of cruelly taxing savings during inflation times, where the price is paid in the taxpayer. Then, in the beginning of the season, a small amount of tax declines will be involved. Then I just want to point out that the private consumption in Iceland is growing by less than 8% in 2017. It is prophesied that it will grow by about 5% next year. Of course, if you want to go into income taxes, as this government has said it has on its policy list, and in the Constitution, you will choose the time to reduce the consumption of your own income, and only to squeeze it, otherwise you may be pouring oil on the fire. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u192	Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. In this context, has there been any discussion, in view of this view that is ahead of the actual payment of a fiscal tax fund, to postpone this tax rise? I'll give myself a chance to know that this discussion has been done with the work of budgets because I feel completely unacceptable that in such a two-way operation, one lays out and not the other. That's not a good thing to do. In the context of a reduction in taxes in general, most predictions indicate that, as I think the highest. A minister has entered his speech here at the beginning of the day, that it is reducing tension. Although growth is ahead, it is likely that smooth landing can be achieved. Is it not the very time to look for ways to keep a higher part of the money they earn, people, and businesses? I think the country's company is generally taxed a lot through the insurance bill. Before collapse, the tax rate was 5.34% and 3.5% unemployment. In contrast, in today's low unemployment rate of 6.85% and in addition to increasing pay development and overall employment, the tax rate is 6,85%, to form an increased contribution from the head of the carers to the pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u193	A respectable president. In terms of the insurance bill, I see things like this: Money has gone up somewhat in recent years, quite seriously. At the same time, the currency's success has been strengthened. The crown is stronger than it was in the first two to three years after a collapse. These two factors have greatly undermined the competitiveness of Icelandic professional life. We see in the export rates that we no longer have the same growth each year. This is now seen on the numbers before quarter of a year. This is a measure of concern, especially because in the years to come there are collective agreements and no doubt that the unions will seek further compensation. What, then, when companies do not have much room to raise their pay? Well, it may be good to lower income taxes, as we have fixed in the Treaty, that governments want to put something on the table in that conversation. Also, by letting things relax in your insurance, you can improve the size of your companies to deal with the changed position I am here to mention. That is why the insurance bill is also on the table. However, it has to be noted that one percentage of insurance bills represents about 15 billion. The 15 billion we don't have to play on such a project under this budget bill, not according to the financial policy we're introducing together to return at least 1.2% of land production during delivery. This discussion will not be taken without us discussing the pay-off side of the bill at the same time in a large context because there have been agreements in this room to make significant improvements in social security. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] During the current year, social security expenses, for example, went up to more than 20 billion. [[The president calls.]] But I believe that in many parts of the country, business can be done better. It's one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u194	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. As I mentioned this morning, this year's carbon bill is set at 50%, and there may be a direct transition. As the Treaty goes on to say, it is to be promoted during the election period. That work is not properly started between me and the secretary of the budget, getting into the exact way that it will be implemented. All I want to do is bring in the fact that there are natural wills, and therefore answer with a loud answer. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, who is not present today. The bandormins are extending incontinents to electric cars and hydrogen cars and other environmentally friendly cars for three years to induce more investments in such automobiles. It has been shown abroad that it is more likely to produce results in reducing the cost of purchases rather than on operating costs. That's what they're fighting for. The carbon is something that has gone up, especially in North countries, but also in Europe and is something we have to do, I think, to approach with a bit of a positive attitude, simply because of the major problems we face in climate. That problem is very big, as we all know. We have to look for ways to create incentives that reduce the use of carbon fuels. In turn, there are other views I know of, especially in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u195	Thank you very much. Minister. Regarding the part of the question that did not show the answer: The minister discussed the carbon and further increase there. It's the highest. A minister envisions new income institutions that fall under green taxes? Does he feel that other taxes will be reduced to using this as a control device or that he realizes that it will be a clean additional tax, whatever name he or they might name? What does he most support himself in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u196	V.E.G. President. The minister is going to be completely honest and say why. A senator that he just hasn't come this far, so there's really going to be a future discovery. Wait a minute. A senator's apologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u197	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The person standing here was so convinced that he was the highest. A minister should have something in the sachet corner from previous jobs that he would have put himself thoroughly into. But I appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u198	V.E.G. President. The financial bill we're discussing here is due the offspring of the Government Treaty, a document that could best be promised, such as Shakespeares, Y's play, and cover over nothing. But in the short term, in this brief discussion that I get to discuss this bill, I'd like to go over a little of the elderly on the budget. The government reports raising the budget for medicine and dental expenses for the elderly. That's fine. However, time has not given to review how these funds come down and which would benefit the most. I'd like to make a special subject for the promotion of the holiday goal up to 100 you. K. Which is pure humor. That's a hundred you've got. K. Do not even reach 109 you. K. as the vacation target before it was dropped to 25 o'clock. K. Current level. In the fall of this year, the prime minister swore at a college booth to bring the payoff target to that amount, i.e. 109 you. K. However, it is almost certain that the middle class will present itself with a change in proposal at 2. Environment, in accordance with the category election, that professional income does not reduce pension income income. To be honest, it is surprising that politicians should decide for older citizens who want and can win, that they may have 25 points. K. or 100 you have. K. or something else in pay without starting to reduce their income of pension. In fact, these good people pay taxes. I was just going to introduce that of this alleged billion, the rise in the 100st level of holiday income. K. 400 million will probably come back in income tax. It is about 600 million as a government fund, then, should result from this rise. Then you must ask: " How does that amount get paid? ' These 600 million? You see, it's the genius. By raising capital taxes by 10%, up to 22%. As a result, the 67 - year - old and older people in Iceland in 2016 received some 36 billion capital payoffs. Of this, 6 billion were paid for in fiscal taxes. Plus 10%. 600 million. So it is those older citizens who have capital payable for higher vacation markets. I think all those who support this government must be proud of this. To do this for an older citizen, to let them pay themselves for an increased holiday goal. Most brilliant. Say you can't pull the rabbit out of the same hat twice. I also wanted to introduce the surgeon's words the other day. He said that building a nursing home very quickly - it takes time to build such a home - but emphasized that home service would be fruitful. I don't see anything in this record that it's supposed to be. As many know, tomorrow we can strengthen our home service if there is money and bridge a gap that is available for the construction of a nursing home. On the other hand, from Reykjavíkurburg it was said that there was a considerable amount of money missing from this activity, e.g. Right here in the capital area. I don't understand why people don't accept the challenge of surgeons and emphasize increased service to those who can stay at home or stay at home, in order to bridge the gap that exists until the growth of nursing homes, spoken of in a more hairy article in this document, will be realized. I challenge a man to dress up in a book and present himself with a real thing in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk, and especially the exhortation on the letter. As for this, I would like to say in general: It is not that in this particular case, in the structure of nursing homes, rather than in other health care providers, there is one answer to solve all issues. A large and important part of the language class that attracts older people in Iceland is about the lack of nurses. It has put undue pressure on our hospital system that old people cannot be discharged because of lack of space. We need to act. This does not change the fact that services to old people are complex and complex, centered on home - service, day care, and residence, and anything else. This group of subjects requires, not one right conclusion, but a composite answer, which means that old people are just like the rest of us. For such age groups, this is not enough for pack solutions, as is true of any other age group in the community. There are different expectations, different demands, different social backlands, different health, different dispositions, and so many other factors that come in there. To meet the elderly, there is also a need to be varied.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u200	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the health minister for the beautiful words to us old people. I realize there is a shortage of nurses. My words here must not be interpreted to mean that I am minimizing what is said about building more nurses. Not at all. However, I would like to stress that I agree with the highest degree. A health minister to see that we need a variety of options. Since I have had the custom of listening to the voices of professional people who know more about things than I do, and therefore have had to listen a lot and often, I can't afford to ignore what the surgeon said the other day. I know that about 100 elderly people are lying in the Land Hospital in the most expensive room in the country, not wanting to be there, not necessarily having to be there, should be somewhere else in a better situation, and my heart feels for these people and their caregivers. But I say, it might be possible to shorten this list of nurses by already putting more money in the home service to make those who are there needed, or would like to be in their own shelters, the stay as the fittest and the safest until the time comes for them to get in a nursing home, possibly based on the paper I had in the hands of earlier times. But far from me, there is one solution to all older citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u201	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of interest in this important matter. The budget bill here suggests that there are more than 170 million newcomers at Vifil position. We're adding to the graduation program at Landakoti. And, of course, local services are part of rural areas but part of health care programs. This, of course, is not sufficiently or permanently provided. But this is one of the things to consider. I'll make sure of what. The senator knows that the person standing here is an ear for it and is not a medical specialist, not a doctor or a pharmacist. I give them the leadership to listen to the best - known and to use my political understanding, my backland, and my experience in implementing the most reasonable decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u202	V.E.G. President. I don't doubt my heart's will. A health minister to do well in this case. I know her because I am zealous and follow her in her ways. But I'm still saying, I think there's a good thing about the two of us. - and the Central Party is willing to contribute - to the home service, i.e. Adds money to her, so that we will have the next chance of being able, able, and wanting to be in our own home, it will make us feel more comfortable and secure. So I repeat my admonition to the highest degree. Healthcare Ministers, about this part, in the large range of aging issues, will be better and more thorough. The insecurity of those who are uncertain about their immediate future must be removed, both those in need of the ministry and their caregivers. More often than not, this lack of home - to - house service affects people. Those who are so unfortunate that they don't have a good backland, don't have a group of children, are the worst in these matters. I repeat my encouragement, but I do not doubt the best will. Minister for good work on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u203	Mr. President. The purpose of my arrival here in the speech chair tonight is to ask the highest. Minister of Justice how she envisions to secure the security of citizens of the country compared to the financial contributions intended for law enforcement in the government's budget. The section on law enforcement says, with the permission of a president: The target of the category is: 1st Best possible service level. 2. The highest possible level of security. 3. Trustful and Honest Police. The table accompanying this page does not contain any of the police'numbers, but it does not contain a single word. The budget bill says that, temporarily, 400 million. K. contribution to the efforts of the police funded by the General for the budget of the current year is made permanent. Is that good? But it's just the same thing that's been over the years. Certainly the government intends to put in 298 million. K. a contribution to the implementation of the sex-sortem improvement strategy but the importance of this contribution. It divided into 178 million to strengthen the infrastructure of law enforcement in the field of sexual abuse and all the factors involved in their case. 40 million temporary contributions to update research software, police information and quality standards, and 80 million for building information systems for the justice system. Mr. President. It's clear that this will not improve the situation of the highest potential. Minister of justice should be fully aware of the legal matters of the country. In the spring of 2017, the government's financier returned his financial commission to the Supreme Government in the financial program of the past. There was also a justice minister, and the situation was drawn up and the severity of the nation's security issues. High-level party. The Minister of Justice has been in charge of the Ministry of Education since 2013 and is the assessment of the president of the National Association of Officers, if thought to have his word, that the Independence Party destroyed law enforcement in Iceland. The state police chief's review of last spring says, by permission of the President: ▪ An opinion of a proposal for action on budget management in the years 2018 - 22022 will not reveal that police funding are increasing beyond what they have already received in 2017's budget. Only a temporary 400 billion is involved. K. Funding will be permanent in 2017. This is, Mr. President, exactly what is happening here on this budget bill, 400 million will be permanent and nothing else. Then the State Marshal points out that in the State Minister's chart on the basic divorces of law enforcement in Iceland, which was submitted for the 141 Parliament, there was a special need for human resources. The conclusion was that police officers have a minimum of 860 or 200 more. Two hundred more. In addition, the estimated cost of this growth and the necessary mechanisms was specified. According to the State Marshal's issue, the number of police figures still missing, the estimated cost of reaching the same number of policemen that was 2007, or a decade ago, is about 1 billion. In order to achieve the targets set for them to be 860 as needed today, compared with the number of people and a substantial increase in tourists as well as inmates, the budget for these 3 billion dollars is needed. There are no financial bills expected in this financial bill. Officers are far too few to be able to perform their service and security duties properly. That's why I'm asking the highest. The Minister of Justice on how she intends to ensure the safety of the citizens and the well - being of police in these important jobs for the citizens of the country, since no financial funds are expected to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u204	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a positive interest in the police work. I expect much in cooperation with her in the financial process when it comes to the important subject I've said here and again and is one of the basics of the state and the importance of protecting him. I'm impressed. However, a senator might easily miss the financial resources that have increased years since the past few years. She thinks so, for example. It's little to 400 million. K. a donation that has been granted temporarily is made permanent. From my point of view, it is always so that temporary donations are not automatic. It was not by itself that this contribution would be permanent, but in the light of experience, and according to an opinion, it is suggested that it be. In addition, the budget is increased by more than 300 million for various measures, but it is specifically earmarked to the work that the government has put on top of its priorities and to the treatment of sexual crimes in the justice system. It is now that we have not been far from making significant legal arrangements by reducing the number and enlargement of police services. The change is still taking place. We are still evaluating that result and will ultimately evaluate the results of that organizational change. But he has been great and good, positive, positive, and positive, and in harmony with the opinion of the police. Even talk about better and more districts being combined. So I'm not worried that the more than 15 billion that are given to law enforcement are not enough to keep the city safe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u205	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer, but it had been pointed out in a talk that in answers and comments and comments from a state police officer, he was aware of the 400 million who had been temporary but became permanent. Still, it is necessary to bring a considerable amount of money, in addition to the 400 million, fully aware that they will not save what will be saved when it comes to a decrease in police force. It's obvious that there's a lack of officers. The officers who are working are under enormous pressure. This stress is manifested by long-term illness, increased accidents, increased loss of function, etc. To say that the 400 million funded by the U.S. Marshals over the past few years, certainly a temporary arrangement for them, but now permanent, will save them when it becomes clear that, according to the U.S. Marshal's opinion of 3 billion, this is to be achieved - all of them see that 400 million are in the ocean for safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u206	A respectable president. I would like to point out that, except for the 400 million that are now permanent, law - enforcement sources have been increased by hundreds of millions over the past few years, with significant increases occurring over the past 2◯3 years. I, however, share worry. A senator is not enough police officers. Today's lack of law enforcement is not necessarily devoted exclusively to the financial authority of individual organizations but to the fact that this loss and the next will be a major renewal. A lot of cops are getting old. I'm worried that those who attend law school, who have been reorganized in a positive way and are now at a university level, and from there they don't get into law enforcement enough. This needs to be taken. We are considering how this study works in the light of the fact that there may not be enough law enforcement involved, for there has been a huge demand for educated law enforcement officials in various jobs. There's a lot of concern. Of course, it will never be to discuss the lack of money that the safety of the citizens will be lost. That's not gonna happen. I understand that the individual authorities never think it's enough. I have stressed to the law that there is a need for constant attention for organizational adjustments. The government itself, the State Marshal himself, needs to have ahead of reorganization and management so that the most money can buy for each dollar. But I got it. To the honor of this category, a senator waits for her suggestions on how to improve law enforcement in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u207	Mr. President. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice must excuse, but it is empty of speech to refer to the previous budget of the country's office or to the entire police force when the governor, this spring in 2017, showed that it would take 3 billion to meet the necessary rise in police officers. It is also empty to talk about, of course, being protected by civilians. On October 6, 2015, a meeting of the U.S. Marshal of State, with the General Board, made it clear that police equipment was unacceptable and that it would not be able to live under a service or a level of security in accordance with a legal role. It's been over two years since it was the situation. Officers are far too few, and there is a great lack of funding for law enforcement. They've been sending in a distress call year from year to year. Minister of Justice acts as if it had nothing to do, as if enough, as if past funding were adequate. But it is obvious from the government's case that it is not, for inside the figures that were present at 400 million. They were there then. Yet the situation was so gravely serious. But that is not added today, no more than the point of investigation and sexual abuse. That'll have to do better, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u208	A respectable president. I'm going to go down here to a few of the points involved in the Department of Transportation and Regional Governments and settlements. The bill for budget 2018 accounts for over $2,6 billion, or less than 8% of total expenses, for a wide range of projects under the Ministry. The budget is expected to increase from year to year by 7.7% to less than 4.5 billion. The most extensive projects are transport and communication. The financial rights of that topic totals over 38 billion. Of these, communication and mail are about 1.2 billion. With regard to transport, there are over 36 billion total productions. Is the increase from year to year about 3 billion. In addition, one year ago we may be able to finance the budget, i.e. In 2017, transportation contributions increased by 4.5 billion, then temporarily but are now being made as a permanent amount of money. According to one reference work, contributions to transport have increased by 7.5 billion, compared with 2018. Nevertheless, it is urgent to continue raising the budget for maintenance and implementation as a result of increasing road weights across the road. Today, the figure is estimated to be over $19 billion, with an increase of about 1.5 billion between years. Of these, it is planned that about 8 billion will be maintained in the road system, which has increased from 5.5 billion in 2016 to 8.3 during 2018. It still has to be added to the future in order to maintain our vital systems. The most extensive projects, recent projects, are animal trajectories, operate on the Smokey Way to reduce traffic urgency. There was the first stage to form with a Cyslavor today. It's a double on one-by-one bridges. Then the goal is that by 2018, the final section of the Round Road at the Groundbed will be completed. Then the whole circle will be broken. In addition, next year another Western island arrives. It's more than 500 million to raise port. K. between the year and the year in which you will be assigned to flight and flight service by more than 370. The aim is to protect this rise, particularly for maintenance on national airports. One of the main objectives of telecommunication is the national initiative to fix fiber optics outside rural areas, Iceland light-related, under the name. It's a joint cooperation project of state, rural society, citizens, telecommunications companies and photoengineering contractors. 2018 will be the third year of the project. During the first two years, more than 30 rural societies have been assigned to support over 2,000 new fiber optics. It is also carried out in the telecommunication area to increase the rate of migration of road and mass - moving sites and aim to reach 93% in 2018. The objective of Iceland photorelated is that in 2020, when we finish the project, 99.9% of the population, households and companies will be connected with a high-speed network of at least 100 megabytes. Farmers also agree with that. They need to grow stronger in order to carry out their ministry and privileges, thus being able to offer even more and more ministry than they do today. Substitution is being carried out in the field of rural management, with larger, more sustainable, and sustainable rural areas, the changing workforce between state and rural society. It also aims to develop more specific relations between the state and the community, to use electronic technology for administration, and to improve consultation with citizens on policies and decision-making. The cohesives are based on national parishion Plans, the equation budget for transport costs, and the transport balance reserve for oil products. One institution, a Legislation, falls under urban conditions. The urban budget increased by 25% in the current year and remained that in the budget. They go mainly to the advancement of markets and parish projects. Parliamentary resolutions will be proposed to 20188/2024, where measures will be made to achieve legal objectives. This task is also continued because there is increased support in areas where the number of long - standing people has been reduced. Work with eight settlements in 2018 is expected to last for up to four to five years. And finally, on national parish programmes, they will receive an additional 100 million. [[The president calls.]] They have 402.5 million. K. but up to 502.5 million. K, but, actually, it's a transfer of funds from a local programme to the parish plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u209	A respectable president. Perhaps slightly unorthodox, but I feel that this material applies within the local languages of the minister: It's the housing situation. Although they may be relevant in many places at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of finance, I would not feel abnormal at the highest level. A minister would have some perspective on the development of housing conditions in the country. I wanted him to answer the plans that the government is going to take under this budget bill and during the coming term to meet the housing problem we face, simply to them that people have to live in tents in their most clear - in their coldest form, perhaps the right name, as it now describes themselves. Transportation plan, if we change the gear a little. It's not a treasure. Not yet. I don't know. I can't read the budget bill that it will be. It would be nice to find out if this will happen or if a road program will be revised in some way to become fully valued, then, in a financial structure. That would be a natural place for her to earn money. And finally, I heard that there was a problem with construction of a Valallian tunnel that delayed construction, more leakage, or something like that. I was wondering if it would affect the budget that the General Assembly provided for the state - responsible project during the last council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u210	A respectable president. When it comes to housing, I am both kindly and obliged to answer for them, although they may not be directly exposed to this Ministry, but they are, of course, related to it. There is a lack of housing throughout the country. Among the things that we wrote in the government covenant is the same. increased cooperation with rural communities on increased property costs and costs for building costs. That's a job we need to do. It has also been discussed how to reduce the threshold to the market for young people and how to buy housing. There is a very large tenant group who would like to make a home. Of course, there are also some who want to be in a rented market, and then rent has to be active. We have corrected the legal environment, but because of the lack of oers in this area, there is not a natural market. It also needs to be asked, "Is my involvement in one of the companies, the Airbnbb, which has had a strong impact, especially in the capital area, but also in individual areas in the country? " So there are many things the government intends to do about housing. You're right. A senator established the transport program. The current four-year plan and the current budget, which is natural to run its course by putting it forward here after the election, have not hooked up. I think one of the 7.5 billion was missing and the construction package is 19, if I remember correctly. In other words, the idea is to produce a four - year - old, twelve - year - old transport plan and a five - year financial program as a policy. There they will see better the ideas that the government intends to achieve. In the case of events in the part of a guard tunnel, I simply don't know it, but I'll get that information to the senator when I've gotten better aware of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u211	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister's problem with housing issues was addressed. But there are many things that you can do and have been done about the demand, helping people buy, etc. But it simply needs a house. It's not much more complicated than that, you have a house to build. As I put it earlier today: Given how cold it can be, as today, it should be simple civil rights in Iceland to have a roof over its head. And a heating system if we go into it. I heard some ideas in the reply of a minister, but not too much of a operation. The government had lots of plans and was going to do a lot of work. I heard a lot of ideas. It might be nice to have a slightly clearer view of action. So, we're going to do it. Not: It could be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u212	A respectable president. Of course, we're working very fast here, with a new government and a new council, and we're dealing with the budget bill. We felt very important in the government, when the budget bill was submitted, to show where we were headed. Of course, we haven't fully mastered the appearance of the entire ideal period. It has something to do with it. Work on a financial program that will begin right after the New Year's Eve. That just means how much money you can make will be used for necessary transport projects. So I may not be able to reason on certain ideas or what I would like to see at this point. Of course, I would like to receive more funding for various lawsuits, especially for transport projects and maintenance. For example, there might also be an increase in money on parish plans and telecommunications funds, on these payments. It is, of course, a significant increase and effort, to make good use of what is presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u213	A respectable president. There are three questions I would like to direct to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers. First of all, two teams, expense teams: Is the minister pleased with the amount spent on new projects and maintenance of the road system? How does he feel that the amount of misery spent on transport plans, both the 12 and the four - year schedules that are currently in effect? What does he foresee about the development of the domestic environment? I don't think it's mentioned in the budget bill. Now there was a significant debate about this in the process of elections, and it seemed like all classes, I think I trust to say, eager to change the environment of the international flight. What does a minister see in that matter, and from where does he see that money is done, if something is taken, it will be taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u214	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for good questions. Of course, I could say that I'm not happy with the financial contributions that come to the company, for I can certainly use more money. However, I am glad that we are in the situation we live to increase between the years by 7.5 billion, 7.7% at the Ministry. It would be presumptuous to have more demands at this point. But we need to see a little further into the future so that there is a link between a four - year transport program and a 12 - year financial program. This is not today, between the financial programme in force to these elections and is about to drop out when we set up a new one after a year, or the transport program adopted during the autumn days of 2016, which was far beyond the budget and financial program that was then taken up. Although there was often a slight gap between them, it was never bigger, and that has been a problem. But we are helping by increasing our donations in these budgets and during the past year. Of course, it takes much more to live up to it. With regard to the international flight, it's just around the corner. I think that I think all classes were willing to examine the so - called Scottish route then known, where residents in certain areas are simply reimbursed the cost of flying, support is in that way. It works well, has worked well in Scotland, and a lot of interesting things about it. It was referred to at work to report, that was a seminar on autumn days, with the first estimate of cost in the range of 4,800, whereas the ideas that were best discussed were some 600 to 5,600,700 million. Today, we are spending about 2 billion on subsidies in this transport. Perhaps we can make more use of that money. We need to connect the public transportation along the roads more closely with the international flight and make better use of the money. But I think this way is one of the things we want to look at, and it was even. written in the government covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u215	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I agree that there is concern that the gap between transport plans and financial plans is more than ever before. There was talk of a major growth in the construction of transport. The numbers currently available are not a major offense in the performance sector. I think we can all agree on that. What is hard to see is that in transport discussions and building structures in them do not mix the sounds and images of these losses. I'd like to enhance the transport secretary's success in that regard, but I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u216	A respectable president. I'm just gonna thank you for that, and I agree with you. A senator says that when we bring up a transport plan and a financial plan, it is interconnected. I thank you for the support of making more money for transportation and maintenance. I know there are a lot of amateurs in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u217	A respectable president. V.E.G. The present and former secretary of transportation and local government were compared to opening a magnificent block at the Smokejanes Railroads and Krysavík Road conventions. But what I'd like to ask him is the chapter from Kaplan to Crysavík Road. That's one of the scariest parts of the country. There'll be some 28 accidents every mile. This too is a frightening chapter, in order that in the Setbergs section of the Smoketrack, people are trapped in the morning and evenings. People don't get out in the morning and don't go to their homes at night, which is so scary. There has been a complete meeting of people asking for something to be done in these matters. Another thing is that Kapakika and I were hit by a disaster. A young boy was badly injured when he traveled between the lanes, flying between them. That's where the roads are needed to keep cars from running. It is not an animal project, and it should be easy to make sure that such small objects are carried out. Another factor in this is that road accidents are expensive to society. It is far more expensive for society in such chapters, with many injured and tragic consequences. There's got to be something to do, and especially on the roadside of Squealway and Smokeins Road. There's a fad to be set up. They're talking about, kind of, the scariest of everything, putting light. It was tried, and there was an extremely high incidence of accident there. The question is, What is to be done? And when?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u218	Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for interesting questions. traffic security projects are usually very lucrative investments. They do very well. In the premeditated plans and men have been working, and I've examined these two weeks that I've had the opportunity to install tasks there that highlight traffic safety, but also traffic weight, and, in fact, other factors. Some factors have been dealt with. Of course, it was a very happy day today with the opening of a fancy construction building onyrsuvíkótttir. What is planned next year, and what we now bring into the budget and to be done next year, is related to the calls in N1 and to Kapakika, in Haulkak, to increase traffic security as well as to help with traffic in those areas. There are also some ideas about funding for the dockers on Hafnarfjörður and Vifilhway, which are a significant source of safety and embarrassment to support traffic activity in this area. These are all the projects planned for next year. It can also be noted that during the past year, two laps were taken to the Smokey Way near Leifs son of Erik, also on the basis of making better traffic distribution and more safe traffic. In other words, we may be able to intervene even if we are not setting up on doubleShine Ways, Westland Road, Southland Road, all at once, the same time as the Sunway and the city line, and all that needs to be done. We can move to a fixed location and make a lot of adjustments. [[The president calls.]] That's a job we're on right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u219	A respectable president. V.E.G. A successful response was now made by a secretary of transportation. But what I would like to find out: Are there any place on the agenda of the misdirection of Lílli's Street and the Smokey Way? And then there's the other one, with the ring-circuits e.g. Call me at Kapakika. There's kind of too many lanes about it. They kind of have to close up there, do something in this area. There's a big store on one side and then the sports area, the soccer area, on the other side. That's a disaster every day. I also mention that there must be some lasting solution, and soon for the people in the Setberg, to get to and from. And the other one, which is simple and should cost a little, should be put on the road by the Capilla so that cars can't hang in the reverse lane.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for excellent tips on what could be done at low cost and in order to better ensure traffic safety and safety for road users, whether walking, riding, or driving. There are many factors to consider. I don't fully know if there are certain discrepancies at this time, but what I went through earlier is what we're going to do next and that's in addition to what wasn't funding in the past. Because we're spitin' in, we're gonna get a chance to do it. However, in other respects, I will no doubt be able to inform the senator of this particular mold and the misdirection of the street. However, some billions of people, 5How6 billion, cost these large, ready - to - do, even 6.5! Of course, money and priorities must be handled well, and we must find the right places. I have a mission now, and I'm sure I'll be in on it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u221	Mr. President. I had planned to direct my words to the top two. Minister tonight, it's the highest. Health minister of Sgiís Svavarsdóttir and the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen. Because of the lack of time, I am not going to have much suspense but to come straight to the point. And while I'm trying to get to the highest. I'll just start at the highest level with a health minister. Minister of Justice. I'm particularly interested in the government's strategy for reforming sexual crime and have been trying to understand exactly how the government intends to finance this strategy and how much it costs and in what way it will be implemented. I'm interested in the location this operation plan is located, i.e. In the chapter on law enforcement, which refers to a total of 298 million. K. contributes to the implementation of the Action Programme. It's 178 million. K. The contribution to support the implementation of law enforcement in the field of sexual crime and all aspects of the case is up to 80 million. K. The contribution, of the 298 million to the development of the information system for the justice system, is to be done. This raises some questions because it has been able to establish a coordinated information system for the entire justice system, from any point to the last budget. I can't find a place in these laws, i.e. When it comes to the justice system, where this information technology system is to be financed, except here, in the sex crimes. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it really true that the sex - crime plan is designed to finance an information plan for the entire justice system? Isn't this a bit of a wrong place for this money? Or am I missing out on where this information system, mentioned in the Supreme Court, District Court, National Court, the prosecution - in all these fields, is referred to as a consistent information system, which is certainly of great benefit to the justice system in Iceland, but in a sexual act programme to address the cost of it? Why is that? To me, this looks a little bit like the number to be put into the sexual crimes by paying for something that all members of the justice system need within this framework. In order to make it look okay, this area is 300 million on sexual crime, but here we are putting 80 million in a system that is not financed anywhere else. My question to the highest. The Minister of Justice is this: What is the real cost of this information technology program, this information technology system, to which the justice system and the justice system are to be obtained? Why is funding only involved in sexual misconduct? And maybe I'll save the other one for the answers. How is it that none of these sexual abuses are funded in any other place than here? For the highest. The minister of health is my simple question: The state of the Land Hospital was asked earlier this evening in 2017. I understand that the aims of a legal committee, and I was in it, as it were last year, were to extract the health system from minus so that all classes could be built up as they would like. My question is, are we going to reach set targets and return the health system to plus the end of 2017? And if I don't, I'll get some sort of warm health minister to see that we stand by this given goal of the budget board, i.e. Will health - care ministers promote the National Hospital's approach to the year 2017 as required by a financial committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u222	A respectable president. I'm happy to hear it. A senator on the sexual abuse program in the Justice Department, which has provided presentation on the Justice Department's Web and is still doing so. A deadline was given, which is now up to date. The final document of this Action Programme is being concluded and the costs of all the factors involved are also being met. On the other hand, we were able to bring this government work into play the cost of this operation. There is a fixed cost of several hundred million, and there are also several hundred million for monotonous costs to trigger various processes and other activities that may not require constant financial contributions to the future. As we have noted, 298 million are being considered to be the implementation of today's program of action, which will go to law enforcement specifically. As noted, 178 million people are being strengthened by the crime - crime police, and 80 million are being contributed to the development of information systems for the justice system. Hv. A senator argues that this is the only factor that is being contributed to bringing about a very important task. It must not be minimized, even if it is of benefit to all. There's nothing worse for that. That's better because it benefits everyone in the justice system. Then I'd like to point it out. A member of the council says that there is a temporary increase in legal resources to the local courts, about 50 million that I find very happy to introduce here, to reimburse the Court's legal registry, which is absolutely fundamental and essential to the continued operation of any electronic administrations in the legal system. So this cost lies there, at least in these two teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u223	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I wonder, though, what's the difference between the regional language file and the plan to update the entire system? Why is this funding not to find any other place? Of course, it is good to place capitals in a system that is good for all. But when the group of paintings is the solution to the improvement of sexual crime and its treatment, I am rather sad to see that the largest amount of money in a system designed to introduce the huge justice system in Iceland should be taken from a series of sexual crimes and how to improve them. I find it a little hard to see. I don't see why it has to be like that. I haven't found this place, a plan to finance this exact information technology program, in the last budget, i.e. The ones who never made it work. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is there a money system that could not be financed, but is it convenient to place in the sexual misconduct? Is it not better to spread money to the other language fields that all benefit from doing so? Why must the sexual abuses carry the burden of a system of information for the entire justice system? It must be a political decision that so much of the money that's supposed to be spent making reforms for violations of sexual abuse on a computer system, to share information. Rather than letting their cause pay for a system of information for the entire court system, does it not suggest adding social or judicial support to the violations?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u224	A respectable president. There has been a long time and a great interest in recording electronic administration within the justice system. It has been a struggle for many years. As far as the district courts are concerned, I can say that renewing, for example, has been an decades' struggle. The U.S. District Registration System. It is essential that electronic administration can be adopted in the justice system, so that data can be transferred from police to lawyers to prison courts and to the supreme authorities. This is a big deal of interest. It is true that this was not the case because there had not been a budget for that type of work, and it has already been made available to the police, the prosecution. But that decision had been made. I planned to introduce to you on the bill, and it was presented in a bill released in the fall, with the funds specifically earmarked to update the local language record. Again, I stress that there's an absolute need for a recording. The sexual abuse management programme shows that this role in the prevention of fractures is highly emphasised. In fact, failure to obtain information on business matters has been a source of complaint. Even if they are not involved in wrongdoing, however, they have a measure of interest because they usually have a charge against such crimes. It is vital that we know the outworking of judicial matters, where they are now, and when they are completed. This has even been true. They will talk about it and emphasize that it will be recorded. It's a very joyful thing, and I don't believe anything but to reason. A senator can rejoice with me and with others and with all the government, that now funds are now being set aside specifically to implement an electronic hearing. In addition, the earmarked funds and funding are used to increase the number of prosecutors at the district attorney's office, which is of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u225	Mr. President. I can honestly say that it is very important that the judiciary system penetrate the 21st century. But I don't think it's supposed to be at the expense of sexual abuse, that they're doing things up - to - date with the justice system. I consider priorities to be so that courts spend money on this and the police spend their money on it and use their regular funds. It should not be so that when one of the government's key priorities is to implement sexual abuse within the legal system, much of it is intended to update the computer system of the justice system. Indeed, access to information is of benefit to the fragile ability to obtain access. We all know that the lack of access to information often leads to disastrous consequences. In contrast, after carefully examining this category, the offenders need more support from the system, a better court order and a better outdoor through the whole process. I'm sorry to see that it's not a priority, i.e. an act of concern for the welfare of wrongdoers and how they get as best away from the process of rape or other sexual acts. But, of course, we'll wish for further disunition at the scene of the budget board, so I'm going to take care of it, disunition of the teams that are specified in the budget bill on the inside of the police and how this is to be done exactly and disassembled in improving this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u226	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the question she raised to me. It is, in fact, a land hospital's position ◯ university hospital in the current year. It's to say that I've called for information on that in the Ministry. It says that since the latest numbers are not available, it cannot be determined whether the Landspians will be fired with a tilt or not. It's just, you know, I'm sorry about December right now. However, according to my information at the Ministry, it should be possible to balance the year, as it were. I got it. I got it. In view of the declaration or agreement that arose in a budget just a year ago, a financial committee agreed that it would be specifically sought and looked to. I think it is important to keep it in place that the budget bill is after this discussion at the council. So, like other members of Congress, I will use myself for good litigation and, of course, for health matters. But I will not be going to use special force as health minister in that regard, as the case is out of the hands of the government under the government of the country. It is a financial committee that holds the case, and then it is Generals to process the suggestions that come from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u227	Mr. President. Then I'd learn my songs from a cross and ask the highest. A health minister who sits as a matter of course. A member of a major body of this council: Will she be a minister and a member of the Parliament exert herself for zero or at least not under a financial trial?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u228	A respectable president. I will promote health care wherever I go, both to a financial committee, here in the house, in the media, and elsewhere, and will not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u229	A respectable president. It's been interesting to sit here for the first day on the other side. Alliedness, listening, learning, and seeing how things work out. Today, for example, men have been exposed to the Internet. the government's self - sacrificing spirit on the pay market of senior citizens was spread. Yes, it is said that the cost of that great favor is about $1.1 billion. I would be delighted to know how the world can calculate that it is the cost of a state fund to raise the income of an older citizen's income to 100,000 dollars. The fact is, from now on, 25,000 K, to the 100,000 cc., to the 75,000 cc. Which, in turn, is being raised now, had previously been, with this 25,000k, total taxation - super taxation. It started cutting down the 75,000 cells. about 45% before they were fully taxed. In the end, the wealth of state was natural to milk such individuals, who were trying to fight for those 25,000 bucks. which used to be a vacation market for remuneration. If it is called the self - sacrificing treasure of this financial bill, up to 1.1 billion, allowing people to pay a natural income tax from their pay, I am extremely close to an account and even in worse way than I thought I would. But it's a good thing it's at 100,000 bucks. Simply put, the person who once earned 100,000 bucks and allowed himself to jump up there to $75,000 before that slushing $25,000. Bonasure markets on remuneration, costs no more than 29,000 dollars. I don't think there's anywhere we can find out in our system today that there's another such taxole happening. I don't know about that. That far doesn't get my sense, but if I'm wrong, I'd like someone to fix me, maybe it'd be better; so long as I'm alive. That's another thing I wanted to say. I could direct my case to the Environment Minister when we're talking about greenhouse gas emissions, when we're talking about selling our sources for greenhouse gas. There's a fund of $290 million. Are we really still selling our sources for this release? That's at least assumed that in the budget bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister: Is that it? Are we really doing that? Or is this something that might have avoided quickly correcting the financial bill? I didn't want that to happen. Although our aim is high and smooth, that we should be out of coal before 2040 C.E., we may prefer to cover the well before we fall into it, rather than stay trapped in it before we surround it. I feel closer to not selling these sources away from us before we see the rest; perhaps even look at the bigger picture and tents for more time than one night in this regard. Finally, I would like to direct a query to the highest level. Secretary of education. The involvement of governments, governments, and the countryside is made up of a great deal. It's supposed to be a big deal on education, they say on the budget bill. That's fine, whether it's a lot or whatever anyone chooses to interpret it, everything that's plus is positive. I'd like to ask: Is there no such thing as putting money on it and getting together with my rural society to set up free cafeterias in basic schools so that none of our basic schoolchildren are ever hungry?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u230	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I may not have the 100% thing you're asking me about, but if I understand this correctly, it's certainly been a sale on these sources, which means we're actually in the business of money for them. There is now a negotiation process directed by the Department of finance for Iceland to the European Union to internalize these funds. This amount of information you're referring to is quite consistent with what I've been told in the Ministry that hopefully next year we'll be in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u231	A respectable president. I have to admit, thank you very much. Minister for. So if I get it right by these budgets, we'll have 290 million coming. K. for selling sources for greenhouse gas emissions. I'm just wondering, do we have nothing to do with this warrant? Why in the world should we dispose of sources we have for greenhouse gas emissions? We're talking about--in fact, you've been reading and seeing here that somehow we should become full of nuclear energy and I don't know what and what. I don't know, I don't really have any expert, but I'd love to really understand it, and many more would like to understand it, know it, and know it. What is meant by the release and sale of greenhouse gas sources?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u232	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to apologize for not addressing you as being revered earlier, but I'm sure you said, and was referred to. Of course, this isn't the kind of thing because this system that has the release rights to do with the release rights to companies, so it's a trade at the European market with them and we're doing it on the market. We're not selling from our sources. This is the system that runs through companies when companies actually have to buy out more than they can afford to live up to their commitments, which this finances them to, and it runs down to us here. It's money coming in with us, but we're not giving up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u233	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister, by talking about how things work like this and selling, as I understand it, that means that we're sort of getting rid of our incredibly beautiful green sources and how eco-friendly and nice we are. Instead, we trade to be labeled as if we were some kind of nuclear power here. I'd love to be corrected, my chief. Minister, if I'm in this shit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u234	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for nameing his partnership with the rurals. The government covenant tells us that we want to expand and improve our cooperation. Hv. A senator mentioned whether we would wish to go into the possible partnership for free food in elementary schools. I think it's all coming up and being something we could talk to them about. On the other hand, we have, of course, because high school is our responsibility. I have recently been visiting high school and noticed that one of the big problems there is a twofold problem. First of all, attendance is much worse today than it was 10 years ago, and the elimination has grown even further. I think that before we even consider these factors, we will focus our eyes on the high school level and may try to improve our mental health and educational issues in order to try to see why our young people are not doing so well as we would have chosen. But I feel that it affects all of us if, as you have heard, so many children go to school hungry. Then we should deal with it. I would like to examine it and make an assessment of poor children in Icelandic school; what their status is; how we might improve their status, where they also stand in study, and what groups these are. So I would really enjoy it if we could discuss these matters, me and the other things. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u235	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of education for a good answer. It brings in more in her reply than just the answer to my question. I believe the foundation is found in elementary school. So I suggested that even more policy would be taken in order to strengthen cooperation with my rural society. When speaking of delinquency and that there is much more to it today, talking about mental - and it's good to put our arms around it - the question is, Must we not look at the roots? Won't we have to look to the middle school, where 30% of our boys graduate poorly or with poor reading sense? Is that something strange, really? Isn't it just a causal relationship? When these young men and women, especially young boys, cross the wall that would undoubtedly be evident when they crossed into high school, do they not have a causal relationship between the dramatic departures of high school? I say again: To me, putting our children around our children, e.g., is the cooperation of the government and the local government. in middle school - I wanted to go to high school. I want our children to be taken care of as soon as they are in our possession, the government, to any extent, in the service we perform, whether they are preschooled or school. Before we look further, I want to look at the roots.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u236	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Senator. It is clear that when we face the great elimination in high school, it has to do with basic schools. We need to focus much more on why these developments occur. It's a team game of many factors. I welcome increased cooperation with the unit's regime. I notice that the city of Reykjavík is now putting more emphasis on education. So I rejoice with them, and I will approach them to learn exactly what is happening in the basic schools of Reykjavík and to examine especially the part at hand. A senator mentions. Of course, we should always look first, take a good look at the roots, and feed them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u237	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I would like to state that I feel that I have been very perturbing over the budget even though the mood was extremely short and a special arrangement for the discussion today, different from what we have been getting used to in the past few years. However, this has been successful because ministers have been present and have made a reply, and some have put themselves on the rosary, which has only brought us back to life. I'll agree with those who said it came out just fine, as it seems to me, that these tiny short speeches let more life into the hall than the long, heavy. It's a good thing I have five minutes at the end. It seems that in this discussion, a wide variety of viewpoints have been developed regarding the policy reflected in the budget. It is suggested that we be better able to ensure the use of the funds, ask us where we might gather in order to provide room for the change in priorities, after some more payoffs. It is this way on one side to the other that others feel that this is not being followed properly by declarations in order to ensure that there are ways to strengthen much of the infrastructure and community services we are going to share in. I'm going to allow me to stand between these views and say that in the budget, it was just a balance between accepting the previous statements that we would need to use the economic fluke that has been with us for the past few years to continue paying off debts and thus living in favor of the future, to take to the State part of the economic situation, that would be irresponsible, as it is anticipated that we will not grow at this speed into the future forever, and that right to support community service in many lands. This discussion has been a major concern of health care. We're doing a hell of a lot more than what was approved on a national budget plan last spring. We should be proud to do better. That's where we want to do better. We want to have a first-class health system. It's a handsome thing to pay for. I'm very pleased with the steps, the emphasis on this bill. It is also in our educational affairs that we see extensive injections beyond what was discussed last time. Transport follows, as well as other lawsuits that have been particularly present in the election and in recent years. It may be closer to mention what has been discussed today, that the justice system is stressing the better handling of sexual abuses. The case goes to the budget board. There's a lot of work waiting for the Committee because with this bill there's another issue, the income business that we're going to discuss tomorrow and other events that follow and are traditional to conclude. I'm simply going to reiterate what has previously been said that in the Ministry of finance everything will be done to provide information and respond to requests for explanation as far as possible. I'm offering all the help I can get in this regard. I wish for success in this unusual situation. I'm also going to thank you for the fact that in spite of differences of viewpoint, it seems that there is an excellent basis for making the situation as good as possible. Today's discussion is a fine start on how the council will handle this matter. I have hope for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u238	A respectable president. Earlier today, I mentioned that it was normal for the first financial bill to be based on current financial policy, not on the underage. Under normal circumstances, this should be agreed first and even to a financial program. When we look at the situation as it is, we're about to win the budget tremendously fast. It won't be as well done, but we try and then we add to the financial agenda. Both situations are fucked. After I thought of it earlier today, an idea came up: All right, let's go for 1st. on financial policy. But we'd never make it because there's a deadline for financial advice, etc. would never be enough to finish it before the law was agreed on anyway. This would only lead to two poorly presented cases that did not get as much attention as they really needed. I was wondering if a minister would agree with me about this when you have these two possibilities, such as the situation today, to take matters a little worse, each one, or to try to win the budget at the spare time we would get another, the financial policy would take. Because of its five - year - old background, financialism can be handled well, and it cannot be revised that way. It takes something major to do so. In such a situation, you have to choose and refuse when it comes to benefits, at least convincingly, in view of what to do. I would suggest that we try to focus as well as we can on the budget bill. I wondered if a financial minister agrees with me on this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u239	A respectable president. I'll agree with this. I think it would be enough for New Year's talk, a debate on the financial policy, and to send it to a committee that is likely to be won by the annual financial hearings. There are many things I think we need to discuss and study in financial policy. We're still learning. This is the third financial policy, which is presented on the basis of new laws on public finance, but we still see things like, for example. how economic forecasts can change within a year. We see how this year's economic forecasts changed considerably in the coming year, just from the spring to the autumn. When this can happen repeatedly, year after year, the effects of the changes are raised at the end of the financial policy period. When we meet, a new government, and set out a policy on who is to be the overall product of the public and the government of the state or just the state in 2022, we base it on fortunes as they look today. However, the law actually gives virtually no room to review it during the terms of the election. This is one of the things I would like to discuss, whether we should create more space in the future, especially in the end of the plan period, or after an incident taking up a law on how to deal with the problem. As the law is today, we have put ourselves in a very stiff - very rigid position - a requirement for making financial policy our own. All of this needs to be discussed. Therefore, I support my whole mind with the mind as it were. A senator is coming here, that we're taking time for financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u240	A respectable president. With regard to the idea of getting enough time for financial policy, and especially for the matters discussed by the secretary of finance, that the law is too rigid when it comes to a longer-term review, I don't think it would be good to take time on the budget before the year is out, so we'll pick it up after yeardays. We won't have the opinion of a financial body either before we agree with the current budget, and it really won't remember our handling of the budget as it is planned today. I don't know, it's at least very complicated if we're going to mix these two together right now. I don't see that we're getting any new information at the time we've got taking financial policy up for a New Year's Eve. I'm ordering it to be kept until next year, despite the exact fact that it should be done right away. I want better coverage and more time on the budget if we don't have more time than this. I also want more time and more careers and coverage for financial policy. I think that's the most obvious option.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u241	A respectable president. For me, it's only a separate matter, i.e. whether we're going to head-to-head economic policy before New Year's Eve and finish up the previous round. and then how the budget board, which is certainly going to be very busy looking at and handling the budget bill, will behave. I'm not going to interfere with how the committee wants to establish priorities, but I feel that we should be able to participate at a meeting for a discussion on financial policy as long as the committee does not call for a meeting at the same time. This is just an agreement we have to conclude at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u242	Mr. President. Because there's a difference between what you're talking about. A senator and a chief. Minister I would like to object that a previous discussion on financial policy, which is supposed to be enough for the entire election period, which cannot be changed unless something terrible happens and has only two debates, dog range, and in a crisis of time, where we try to do what we really don't have time to do. It's out of the question on my part - I want it to be clear to the President - to take a previous discussion on finance policy in a time frame right before a New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-15-3.u243	President's heard what to do. A senator will say and bear that in mind.
