ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u1	At a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee earlier today, Óli Björn Kárason was elected chairman of the Committee, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson I, vice president and Vice President Vilhjálmur Bjarnason II. At a hearing earlier today, Haraldur son of Benediktsson was elected president of the Committee, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson I, vice president of Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir's daughter II, vice president. At a meeting of the welfare committee earlier today, Nichole Leigh Mosty was elected president, Vilhjálmur Árnason I, vice president and vice president of the Ólöf Nordal II. At a meeting of the European Environment and Transport Committee earlier today, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was elected president, Pawel Bartoszek I, vice president of the United States, and Vicegraphy Haraldsdóttir II.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u2	At a meeting of the International Parliaments Association earlier today, Birgir of the Ármannsson was elected president and Director Halldóra Mogensen. At a meeting in Iceland at the NATO Council, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir was elected president and Director Alfreðsdóttir Alffreddóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u4	President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Health Minister Óttar Proppér finds happiness in his role and lot. I have full faith in the highest. A minister will work diligently and faithfully on this vital assignment, for the benefit of the nation. According to a statement as supreme. There is a party at this time, with permission of the president: No matter what the economy or social situation, good health and health services will be the priority of the government. Health policies that are compatible and trusted by health care, improve human health, and contribute to the health of the people of the country. The aim should be to reduce the benefit of individual healthcare professionals. Now I want to enter the highest. Minister by how he intends to provide financial support for the urgent tasks. When can we expect accurate timing of the implementation of these priorities? At the same time, the Declaration of Policy says, on permission of the President: ▪ The health care center for the patient's first stop will be strengthened. The bioavailability of mental - health services is increased, including psychological services for health care and higher schools. Children with mental problems and psychology services are being promoted to insurance systems. President. Because this group of subjects is sensitive and how urgent it is to make sure that these words will be fulfilled, I would like to hear more clearly. A health minister intends to implement this and whether the agreement has been made at the highest level. Secretary of the budget for the seminary. A statement can then be made by the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that extensive physical restoration is not possible by means of financial support. Does this mean that there is a plan for further personal business and/or economy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u5	Madam President. Thank you so much for your inquiry and good words for me. So it is first to say that the government has put health matters in particular as top priority in its government covenant and that the matter is specifically carried out by its own ends. The plan is now beginning to work financial programs until the next five years, where the big lines will be crossed in a row. Of course, this is done not only by the situation of the mercenaries, the year's position but also by the emphasis of the government covenant. Thus, in the Treaty, some form of agreement was already made between the parties, and at the highest level. Secretary of finance, like what? A senator asked about priorities for health care. Of course, this work has just started, i.e. for the financial agenda, and will be in operation for the next few weeks, and must be legally submitted by law until April 1. The same can be said of the more accurate interpretation of the government covenant when it comes to the strengthening of health care and mental - health professionals. This is specifically stated. It is also stated in the Treaty that there is a standard of health policy, so, of course, there must be some of the policy of specializing these classes, but I also expect to place them in special jobs within the Ministry. Now, unfortunately, time is up, so I come to more aspects of the inquiry later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u6	President. The reason I'm asking about this right now is because it's a very general statement in the government's policy declaration. It must be that much work has been done over the past few years in this series and in recent decades. But it often seems that long - term policy is missing in large groups of languages, including for health care. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Minister Óttar Proppér to see if he did not consider it wise to bring more of this policy effort into the General, transpirary work, so that the tribunal party is not being made up of. Now it's got the highest. Minister of good experience with that kind of job. Will a minister take advantage of experience when he himself is on the minister's throne?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u7	Madam President. Like what? A senator takes note of a lot of work, and, of course, it is far from the fact that the health - care system is a mess because there are a lot of good things to do with the Icelandic medical system that will be built on and strengthened. Not only are many activities and hard work but we are, of course, following it. The government has just arrived, and the one present is recently serving as a minister, and we are also a bit involved in accepting this oil vessel, as is sometimes said, in the middle of a cruise in 2017, so it may not have been fully developed or organized for a whole term. I agree with what. A senator, I have good experience with parapolitic work, and when we get to work the overall policy for the seminary, it's a methodology that interests me very much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u8	Madam President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The prime minister of all good work. When you consider the discussion of so - called Panama documents, and recently for a report on the property of Icelanders and reacting to them, you will have questions about the nature of politics. It may be concluded that there is a general agreement to determine whether a specific procedure is a violation of ethics or not, as it is in the eye. When it comes to reactions, both those involved and many outside the council, even within, they are different. It seems quite widespread to think of a natural reaction that an obvious violation of ethical principles is only a violation of resolve. In other words, if I e.g. ... don't announce my stock property, I'm sorry about the protocol and I'm saying it's not a crime to be broken. Or what? Obviously, I can neither be forgotten nor intent, nor could there be a number of violations of ethical principles. I consider this view to be a form of sexual immorality wrong. The broken is broken no matter how it came to, no matter what I say and try to turn the situation in my favor. In order to get a clear view now that the Minister's code of ethics is on the table of a new government, and then talk in the community about treatment at the highest level. Prime Minister of the topic-or domestic report as it is, I ask him as the leader of the government what his understanding is about dealing with violations of ethical principles, as I have described, and whether he believes that there will always be intent or transgression if there is a possibility of intervening ethical violations, as well as ministers and members of Congress. Finally, the third question: Does Ministers believe he has violated the code of ethics that should be presented by a minister with information relating to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u9	A respectable president. That's a very important question, i.e. Association of ethical rules and post-circuits violations of ethical principles. Who would evaluate the interpretation of such rules? Here at the Council has developed the rule, or the tradition, that to a considerable extent it is up to members of Congress themselves, to ensure the implementation of the rules. The question here is, Do I feel that there is always a need to be deliberate or reckless in order to disseminate in order for the offense to appear to have occurred? No, I don't think that it doesn't have to always be like that. You can't overlook the fact that you're wrong. A senator puts the matter in perspective and asks whether it was a violation of moral principles. Then I feel that it is important to keep a few things in place, because this is the belief that information was kept from the public. Thus, as a financial minister, I was taking the initiative to have the information received together. Second, I announced that the evidence would be submitted to the Council, and third, I presented the data to the General. Nevertheless, the claim that something has been kept secret to the common people remains secret. Of course, this is to be done in connection with elections. Those who have held that discussion most have not yet been helped by explaining what points it was in this report that might have given me a reason to keep some information from the voters in this country. However, when the report received an introduction on a financial and business committee, it seems to me that many members of the report were quite surprised at what the actual content of the report is, because I'm going to doubt that many of those who have taken pride in the report had a great deal to study its contents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u10	Madam President. I wasn't talking about any penalties. I was simply asking, " Is this always so that people need to prove that they have either done something unexpected or that there was a mistake, and who is to prove that intent is involved? ' I repeat the question: Is there any violation of ethical principles, if it is a real violation, and now I keep all reports and records, if any action is committed, can there be any excuse, and can belittle it, avoiding all the penalties of whoever they may be? This is what I think is the essence of ethics. Regarding the publication of this national report, I wasn't covering the content, just asking the time, because of how long it took to publish the report, whether it was in the public interest, and whether it was a violation of moral principles.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u11	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't know exactly what it's supposed to be in itself to have one senator talk to another about what to do with ethics. These are rules that we share. We need to have a common understanding of how they will be followed. It's not a question of a conversation between me and a why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. This is a question of our common understanding here in this hall about how we will ensure their follow-up. This is evident when elected representatives are involved, of course, primarily in dealing with those whom they accept their commission to see if they, when it comes to their having to renew their authority, have followed the rules they themselves have applied. I'll notice that the other one. A senator is not in this case asking about penalties, but I don't think it's appropriate here. But we break the rules in this society into various categories. Sometimes we have laws. In other cases, procedures. [[The president calls.]] This is a code of ethics. These groups have different characteristics when it comes to follow-up. For example, we cannot go to courts to impose moral values.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u12	Madam President. A few talks at the General Assembly last night gave a good deal of work and new work practices. They talked about building bridges. I thought this presentation was worth paying attention to. And that men work across more parts and smaller parts. One of those giving a fine talk was a senator and president of a council of Bear's future. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir. She said, with President's permission: To me, members and political parties are not either part of or against. We're not us and you. We're all on the same team. We were given an important assignment in which the nation's interests depend, not the interests of political parties or our members. Many of the projects that can be found in the policy declaration and in the terms of the Council that will be submitted to the spring council are issues that all classes clearly stressed in the controversies of the election. Today, it will test whether those non - members of the present government were serious with the declarations that political practices needed overhauling. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister whether this is also valid for those members of the better management section of the Bjarts future, i.e. ... tostandtheaggression. But I'm specifically calling for how the Battlers of the Future will approach proposals and bills that will arise from the state of the government and are in line with the emphasis of that company in the contingency of the election. I can refer to a bill for the payment of patients who will be involved in continuing work on the Constitution in accordance with the findings of a management body, that they themselves are allowed to decide on continued EU negotiations and system changes in the marine environment. The other question is, Are the senators in some way bound in the administrative work to vote against the given promises or to take into account when proposals are made?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to ask the question that was quite philosophical, which pleases me especially, that is not pleasing to me rather than pondering over moral and philosophical questions. I'm gonna give you a speech and a vote, like what? A senator puts it, before elections, is an important part of politics, political candidates for elections, and, of course, being what the prospective voters, the public, really represent as to what the relevant politician and party stand for. However, as well known, a representative of democracy is in Iceland, where a single general or elected representative is generally not alone, but in cooperation with others with whom he is either sharing a body of Congress with or even shares cooperation between members of Congress, such as the United States of America. ... governmentcounsel. Of course, I have to say that the senators of Bright Future, such as hopefully other members of Congress here at the council, choose for their conscience as it should according to the Constitution. But we often talked about it, and we've talked about it since the beginning of a bright future, that when we discuss matters for elections, we try to talk about things that stress, what we want to fight for, not about promises because we realize that in most cases we will be alone and with the power to fulfill those promises. A bright future was well elected, yet only with four senators of 63, obviously there is no greater part to drive their promises through without being in cooperation with others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u14	Madam President. I appreciate the answer, but I think it's thin and really hung around a twist. I would like to ask again: Are the senators of Birt's future bound in some way in the administrative business to vote on a matter they promised before elections, on the contrary to what they promised, or at some particular point in the ideal period? That's what matters. Promises are suddenly called plans, I don't remember what they're about to say. A health minister said, but I think it's important to know if it's because if we're going to share with each other, smaller things and more things, we need to know if there's any point in putting matters forward. I'll say we're going to bring you to a case we promised before the election. I want to know, do you want to know?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u15	A respectable president. I'll try to answer it. A senator clear. The senators, like other members of Parliament, are firm in their convictions when it comes to their support of a case or demonstration. It's so simple. The emphasis, as I put it, or the campaign code as many would call it, which our party proposed in elections is the focus of the party and the points we bring into the work at the General Assembly. So I'll reiterate that, of course, we're in a government community where there's a contract that has been written for emphasis in a government contract. He's in the way, and he's public, and we're standing by him. He's not all from my campaign list. He's a common focus for the groups who have decided to work together. It depends very much on the issue of what will be considered and when it will be in the season of the election. [[The president calls.]] But I'll make sure. Senators that we will be supporting good matters, as we may at council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on your office. There were many beautiful speeches yesterday. All of them were to be rather beautiful in common. The most beautiful, however, was the government's speeches. Of course, they had nothing more to do with the government covenant. But, hey. A senator and a chief. However, a minister gave a talk that was somewhat contrary to all the other beautiful talks, i.e. The minister was somewhat determined when she discussed the issues she said she was going to complete during that terms. Among other things, the minister, by permission of the president, said: We want to implement a green low-carbon economy in Iceland based on sustainable use of natural resources, the full-use and more efficient innovations in the field of biotechnology and ingenuity. The minister then discussed greenhouse gas emissions, that it must be stopped by any means necessary. At the same time, however, members of Parliament, or rather the Ministers of the Commission, speak of the need to expand the import of agricultural products. I'd like to ask the Minister how this works. How does it go in the eyes of the Minister and consider talking about low-carbon economy, making use and getting ready to produce products in Iceland, as soon as possible to import agrienvironmental products that we can produce here? Second, the minister spoke of contaminated industry or something like that. I would also like to ask the minister: " How is it defined what can be polluted? What kind of business are things that cannot be contaminated or polluted? What does that mean? Is there a particular type of work that should not be used as a contaminating industry? Are we talking about a company that uses 5 megawatts or 15 megawatts? Has the minister defined what pollutes the industry? It's just an elf? Is it a silica? What does the Minister mean? None of these are clear in this second beautiful agreement of the board of directors, which is likely to be read to the children when they go to sleep because they do not understand it any more than we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u17	A respectable president. It is good to be able to come and explain why. A member of the government policy on climate, green matter, on the matter of delinquency investments to contaminating big business. That is what we mean when we say that we will stop supporting the industry. I don't really know how clear I can get it out of me. Once these companies have set up their work posts in Iceland, they have frequently done so through the unwilling tax contracts of the state and have been given a discount of taxes and fees. Icelandic taxpayers have, in turn, paid the infrastructure that the company needs. Now we're going to say we're going to stop this, not just because the tax system is supposed to be in general, but because we're not going to be supporting us with contaminated industry. Of course, when I say polluter, I refer most to the industry that is carbon - hydrocarbon. There are, for example. aluminium and so are e.g. a silica. We could list more if we had time to do this, but this is more direct. With regard to agriculture and question. It is clear that Iceland's agriculture has a high level of carbon emissions. That's what we need to work to do. We will, in cooperation with farmers. There is one part of the climate action program that we will be working at this council. [[The president calls.]] I know we're at the highest. Agricultural and marine eco-efficiency will work as fully as possible and in full agreement with the National Institutes as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u18	A respectable president. V.E.G. Of course, a minister did not answer my question about whether there is not a little twin in his intention to import agrienvironmental products as soon as it is being blown up and talking about all this fine green and beautiful stuff. There is likely a small number of pollutions more than a regular shipping point, in transporting agricultural products from country to country, rather than increasing the production within the country. However, I rejoice with what the minister said, that there is a chance to help the agriculture and to support it toward the environment. There is a contract signed here several months ago by the former government in which it is exactly discussed. I encourage the Minister to do nothing about it. The minister also did not answer what he really meant by polluting the industry. Does that mean, e.g. that the assignment in Helgavík is out of the picture? Does this mean that the minister plans to use himself to try to stop the work being done on Bakka from being realized? Is there a limit to today's enlargement of industry? What does this mean about people's interest in building some kind of industry in the north? [[The president calls.]] And what does that mean, e.g. for the future suspects? All of this requires that the senator inform us about what is involved in the views of the minister and the administrative sector of polluting big business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to set things right here, if you don't mind. A senator may have a different view of what the State does, but, of course, the State is not increasing the import of agricultural products. There are others who, if customs are removed or lowered, can do so, which is, of course, just part of the freedom of business and the freedom of individuals to choose the products that people want. It's true that there's fate in these matters, we're gonna give it up, hopefully. Iceland also selects Icelandic agricultural products, e.g. The organics. They're very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u20	But the pollution?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u21	And I already answered that question about pollution. I just want to say something about the projects that are already on the board of contaminated industry. Then I have said that I must, of course, respect the government ship of the country and will, I respect the government ship of the country, and I am very sad that these projects were established by the former governments, were overcome by the fact that the tray is on the agenda. [[The president calls.]] We will not go to such investment agreements. Sadly, though, these bad decisions must continue because I respect the government ship of the country. [[The president calls.]] But I would point out that, for example, often it is. The funding of these projects, which eventually leads to their failure to reach the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u22	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate a new Environment Minister on her office and wish her success in her important work. The declaration of the government's policy is about making a climate action plan, but unfortunately, there are no major objectives, whether to reduce emissions or to what time they should meet. This humble goal did not appear in the debate of the decision. Prime Minister or speaker at the highest. Environment Minister here yesterday. So I want to ask the highest. Environment Minister: What is government policy in climate? Will the government follow EU policies to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030? Or will she even set out ambitious goals that would really be worth celebrating? So we'd like to get some answers from the highest level. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u23	A respectable president. I appreciate this good inquiry and thank you for the opportunity to help us understand what we are dealing with in the Treaty, but this may be so that it cannot be a complete interpretation of what we are dealing with in all matters. Then I am kind and obliged to talk about what we are going to do about it. Now I'm looking for this, I just had a lot of information. First and foremost, we want to take the point position. Now coming, and I'm starting to lose my job, last night I heard a climate report produced by the National Institute of Economics in Iceland about the situation in Iceland. I've been given insight into it, and the situation isn't too good. It's clear that we all need to be here. All departments need to do this. All administrative institutions need to be on the same page as regards going together on this expedition. We have signed the Paris meeting and have the standards, but of course we want to do better. First, you get the status all the way up to the table, then you have to go to the protocol specified. Now we've led to a plan of action, there's something called the application plan for the previous government. She did her thing. But there has to be a much better map, and it's on my level, what we do and how we do about recovery of wetlands, transport energy exchanges, energy exchanges for the fishing fleet, forestry, land healing. [[The president calls.]] That's how I could keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u24	Thank you very much. The Environment Minister of these answers, although there has been no answer to what I was asking about, what the detailed objectives of a new climate government are in a government contract. It was not shown in responses at the highest. Environment Minister, I'm afraid. A crucial goal is not complete interpretation but a foundation, an essential basis for climate change, a climate change strategy. It's one thing, the same thing. It was interesting as the highest. A report from the National Institute of Economics (U.S.A.A.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A. This report and work on it began about a year and a half ago, about the middle of 2015. If the highest. The secretary of the environment has seen this report and speaks of it in the symposium, is it not time to reveal it to us and work on it, or what? When are you planning to go to the top? Ministers publish the report and bring the word out of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u25	Now it looks like it's a bad idea. I'm just being misunderstood by a senator. I haven't seen the report. I haven't been able to read it. I've seen one of her pictures. [[Up front.]] I haven't read it because it's, as I'm saying, it's still plain and I haven't been a environmental minister for a few days, so I have to wait for this report to be ready. [[Started a year and a half ago.]] In case of a moment. A senator has something to do with examining it at the University of Economics. I can't wait to see her. I feel the same way, and I've been pushing it afterwards. We cannot set absolute goals, it would be irresponsible to set out even greater goals before we know the point. That's what we're getting at the Ministry now. We will bring up the next step when this report is fully prepared. I look forward to it as much as I do. A senator for this to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u26	Madam President. I've been asking for this discussion at the highest. The secretary of finance to discuss the report of a community service group in taxes, a famous report that was ready in the fall but not published until now. Hv. A financial and business committee was given a presentation on the report that presented a number of interesting developments, but it may also be said that the report itself raises more questions than it answers. In view of the seriousness of this matter, I feel very important. A financial minister introduces to us a vision of what action he intends to take after the report. I don't have to multiply about the negative effects that the deportation has had, not just in Iceland, but in Western communities in general. In fact, it is well put in the report, with the permission of a president, which states clearly: It is evident, then, that capital travel to low tax areas contributes in general to increasing inequities and undermines the welfare community when either or both its source, that low- and intermediate groups need to shoulder more tax taxes than would otherwise be to compensate for loss of money from the public, or far from public service. It also shows that the very wealth of the richest grows faster than that without taxation. Lower and average income groups are lost proportionately in these situations. Thus, while global economic growth was only half that, in a 3.4% or 3.4%, property of well - off individuals grew in private banking services during 2014. This is exactly what world economists are up to, i.e. that the wealth of the wealth grows far beyond economic growth. This inevitably has an inequities increase, and more and more studies show that inequities are not just a problem for those affected, i.e. to the bottom of the inequities, it's a problem for the rest of our communities. Based on those views, i.e. to undermine the public service and to decrease economic growth even in these communities, etc., to deal with the lesions of debridement. The report aims to evaluate three methods of launching money in this way; through cover - ups, through property management abroad, and through unscheduled capital transfers. It is suggested that the most likely estimate of the amount of money in a foreign country is about 580 billion. A similar study has been conducted in Denmark, but it is still waiting for its results. According to indications given to the Icelandic working group, the number of Icelandic children in Iceland is four times higher than the number that the dance study revealed. Iceland's special status is therefore high in this regard, but it's a fact that in the Danish study, we're also looking at what we call a thin self-finishment, i.e. we need to focus on international corporations and how they fire money away to low taxes. What the report shows is that prior to a collapse, the European Treaty gave much more leeway to transport property from the jurisdictional process and to follow-up and data registration in this field did not correlate with the rapid growth of capital transport. It suggests that CCC legislation is not introduced here until 2011, it is introduced much earlier in other parts of the North countries, actually in the 1960's, in the United States, than in 2004 elsewhere in the North countries. The conclusion we can draw from this is that national legislation and the Icelandic government system were not simply prepared for financial reform by society. The report repeatedly shows that the time of the work group has been short and needs additional research to help clear up the area. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he think so? Does he think that we can have a study that is comparable to that in other countries? Another factor is that this study has been responsibly lacking data in order to draw normal conclusions. Monitoring and reporting in this field was inadequate. What's your chief plan? Ministers will do to make sure that this will not be the case when this situation occurs, for example. free of capital problems, and we can start looking up at similar developments, although, of course, it never becomes what it was before an collapse because this tendency always finds a new way? What's going to happen? A minister to make sure that the infrastructure can deal with this? At the latest, I'd like to ask you about a vision for the future. Minister. How are you planning to go to the top? A minister makes this matter, which is indeed brought into a government contract, a priority for the administration that it needs to be in order to be able to deal with it? [[The president calls.]] We know well that they take the money out of the country are usually people who have an army of lawyers to hide their tracks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this inquiry and for calling attention to the very important report completed last fall, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The report has led me to take extensive measures and to prepare them well. It will appear in my answer. Hv. A senator asks what further research plan is being done to map out the problem of Iceland's national communities in the tax industry. In a report on the property of Icelanders in nationalities, this final statement, by permission of the President, is: It is evident that the figures presented here are only preliminary and that more detailed analysis is needed before a full understanding of the uncertainty of this subject is made so as not to be talked of as having conclusive conclusions. I suppose these final words are the basis for the inquiry, and further research would no doubt explain that picture better, give more accurate numbers, and we would see more than one component to be identified. That's what's gonna happen. However, the report and its conclusions with all their uncertainties are valuable inputs to take action in various areas without any need for further fermentation. Common vision, policy development, equal between the institutions within the tax system and beyond - with the access of appropriate planning as necessary to carry out the work immediately. Other aspects of this report call to mind further questions and research before making any decision. However, I would like to specifically say that many of the information presented in this report depends on the level of uncertainty. We will never be able to answer that question with complete knowledge of the scope of these initiatives and how much of that money has really been listed because we know only that part of the answer. We know what was listed, but we do not know what was not listed, even though they try to approach it in the manner that is being done in the report. Secondly, why? A senator for what action will be taken to improve tax and tax control. I have already visited three agencies responsible for a general tax service in my first few days. I've been to the head of state tax, the stress management of public taxes, and IRS, an tax investigator who conducts tax research and a customs manager who pays public fees. That's an essential prelude to further tax reform. I will follow these visits in a letter to all the institutions that describe the government's policy declaration of how we intend to work in harmony with our efforts and receive suggestions from the local institutions. It is very important that they expel their legal tasks in line with the application of the Treaty's policy of promoting tax control and acting systematically against tax collections, including tax taxes. In this regard it is also appropriate to draw attention to the advice given in consultation areas on the increase in prosperity and to simplify the tax system and contribute to the more efficient revenue of the state's funds. The proposals are already in an active position by the Ministry expert. At the latest, it is asked if a minister considered promoting this as a priority. I can answer that this is a priority. Working against taxes, working against taxes, and working against the black economy is a priority. I believe the infrastructure of the administration system is strong enough to do so. The Ministry of finance will be under my command to promote the current tax control and to counteract this illness with all the potential power.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u28	Madam President. Thank you for the discussion. It is very good to discuss this report, since the report itself is good. The significant ownership of the Icelanders in the tax industry is a major concern, but it's sparkling in the report. The report aims to evaluate the extent of property in taxes and the sums that might have been shot away by an illegal cover-up, by means of a property control program, and by an unregistered budget. But tax skills are not a special problem. It is clear that they will be removed only by extensive international cooperation. It is estimated that at least 130 billion dollars neighborhoods from developing countries will be exposed to tax conditions each year. Thus, the eradication of taxes may be expected to be a matter of interest for more people than Icelanders. The countries of the world today are all tax reforms, tax support programs, or are neutral in their respect. But I think that Iceland has every reason to believe that it has the special responsibility to provide taxpayers with legislation that reduces their effectiveness. That is a natural exchange, for it is not likely to seem to be a business venture in countries that dig through their foreign policy, which is under the ability of other countries to maintain their infrastructure. It is known that one of the main reasons which has reached the survival of taxes and societies is the transparency and secrecy of corporate property. I'd like to ask the secretary of finance and economics if there is no standing to respond to a report on Iceland's national property by enforcing legislation directly working against the tax authorities, including by opening up an enterprise file and annual accounts and the shareholders' files on the portal. It may have been recently done in Britain with good results. In part, it was found that the 21 - year - old Gabrielle Southern is in the management of at least 759 enterprises and the 80th - century Barbara Kahan has been in the governments of 44.864 companies. [[The president calls.]] It's quite remarkable to me, and when data are opened, it brings interesting things to my attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u29	V.E.G. President. The report was prepared for the Economic and Business Committee. It made it clear that she's not really ready, or that it's not ready for it. It doesn't tell us much about what tax fraud is really, how much money is where they're just looking for taxes. The head of the task force reported that further diagnostic work was needed and for more information, which I believe is correct in the government's right to continue in order to identify the real loss of income from tax fraud. You can't joke about everything in the discussion, i.e. what is not considered. We know there's something, we know there was a problem. Now, however, it is true that with further information exchange agreements and modified 2011 legislation, it is no longer practical to have money tied in with these so - called regional areas. I'm not sure that the future problem is so much, I think there's really less money, but it's just in the bank chambers or under the pillow. Still, it is appropriate to get some clear information so that our agencies, tax managers, can determine if changing legislation and what it really needs to do to eradicate black activity. [[The president calls.]] That is the case, black activity is being done in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for starting this vital discussion. It's interesting to listen to it as a verbal veneer. Ministers have an appointment. In the reviewed report, i.e. About the property of the Icelanders in ethnic areas, comes even. to share information on capital flow in and out of the country, e.g. There is no such thing as deportation and participation in the investment route of the Federal Bank. At the same time, the report shows that the tax authorities have not been notified by the Federal Bank on suspicious funding transfers. Recently, an open meeting was held at the %s. The General Economic and Business Committee. Since he was open, I can tell you that I asked about this at a meeting of the Committee. I'm asking the highest. The financial secretary of the same, i.e. whether he feels it necessary to improve cooperation between the Federal Bureau of Justice and the tax authorities on the exchange of information between these institutions. It is now that there are conflicting opinions between these institutions. This was shown at this open meeting and for this check. Now the business banks have to monitor the country's budget transport and report it to the National Bank. But counts at the highest. Secretary of finance that there is enough supervision, or does he intend to promote it? I'm also going to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether there are information on which members of the Society were bringing out funding for the crash, either in the tax pool or in some way to limit their risks, and also to take advantage of the Secret Bank's investment route, a so-called discount guide, and whether there is any link between these groups or whether the same parties were involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u31	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for this special discussion. There can be no peace with hide and immorality associated with taxes. I welcome the highest words. The financial and economic minister he gave in a speech yesterday, not to go against taxes and tax evasion, and now that the case is a priority for the government. As repugnant as the information was that followed the Panama Documents and how striking it was to see that so many Icelanders took advantage of tax snow, how many Icelands took advantage of defective regulations, and how weak surveillance was to reason on others, and to hide their money from the tax was also accompanied by helpful tax discussions. Others therefore wondered what tax fraud would really have meant for the State's service to those in need of the service, health care and schools, law enforcement, roads, medical transportation, for example. The importance of righteous taxes and of sharing in the building of the welfare community was established in a general discussion. The report on the domestic property of Iceland points out that the government has to face up to the fact that definition, extramarital and follow-up with data is a workload of activity and that cost has so far been seriously underestimated. It is noted that due to this, a monthly bill and a money - disposal agency have been used as a recommendation for inadequate management. In this regard, we as superiors have emphasized the need for man - made supervision and research on tax issues. This applies to the head of state tax, but also to the head of the tax. During a discussion at the last assembly, we included the provision for a general tax law that gave authority to the tax authorities to buy any kind of information that might be informed of tax fraud. That would be a source of relief. We also made a synonym proposal to hide the government from international business pressure against under taxes. [[The president calls.]] I will discuss that suggestion in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u32	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion of this report, the report of a group of workers on Iceland's property in ethnic areas, and the government's loss of income. It is the report that, as noted by the international community, had been ready since the beginning of October, and it was presented to the current financial minister and prime minister who decided that it was in the best interests of everyone to wait with the release of the report. The decision was at best a mistake, and at worst, an attempt to cover up a debate about demurrections, Iceland's holdings in them, thereby covering up a discussion of the Panama Documents and their role in the Minister. The contents of this report are shocking and depressing. Based on the results of the work group, it may be estimated that by the end of 2015, the scope of property and the activities of Iceland in regional areas since 1990 is between 350 and 810 billion years. The task force then believes that the government's loss of income because of any listed property in this country can be taken at a rate of between 2.8 and 6.5 billion dollars. every year. The amount of money that could have been done for the education system, the health system, the welfare system, transportation, and other national customs of all of us. These acts did not occur just before a crash. Iceland's tax returns, from 2000 to 22015, revealed that the listed capital pay, which can be attributed to an African society of more than 30 billion dollars. during this period. In addition, there is information that citizens have sold and cashed the goods of local societies for high levels of 10 billion. A total of 40 billion between 2000 and 2015. The report repeatedly shows that most of this type of research takes years, not weeks, and much more detailed analysis is needed. I'd like to hear even more clearly from the highest. The secretary of finance how he intends to further investigate this black spot in Icelandic financial and economic history to try to find out more about the scope of national society and the loss of the government with the aim of making them grow up and the black holes in the Icelandic economy and preventing them from forming here again. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest word here. Minister on visits to the Subcommittee, which is a voluntary courtesy of the newly appointed minister. [[The president calls.]] But visiting is not enough. Real action must be proposed. I miss the fact that he did not preach a direct operation in his speech earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u33	Madam President. It is of utmost importance that the issues covered in the report become fixed, as well as the struggle against tax fraud and even less black employment. I thought it was the best. The minister of finance is quite clear in discussions about the policy of prime minister yesterday and in his previous speech when he proclaimed war against the black economy and the tax lovers. It's very good and very important. The report clearly shows the importance of order, data collection and monitoring at all times. This has been a failure. The infrastructures, data, databases, and understanding data are key to monitoring capital movement between countries. To the future, it is necessary to follow closely the international and international activities involved in these matters. International cooperation is necessary. We must have a full share. It is particularly important that we monitor and learn from legislation and the activities of surveillance institutions and data collection, e.g. Other parts of the North. You'll always think of my cousin Danir, who we're learning a lot of good from. We need to make sure that, as the examples illustrate, we are always on the list of developments in this field. Because there is only one thing we can be absolutely sure of: Those who want to shrink back from their responsibilities in these matters are quite a new source of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u34	Madam President. The report says that the authors simply did not have enough data to process, and it was shown at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee that they had not had the time they would have wanted to complete the study because they were running a bit after the report was submitted. But there may be good reason to use this report as an introduction to a thorough study of key factors and perhaps further cooperation with other countries, with the goal of reducing the tax burden. A thorough investigation could, e.g. is aimed at investigating the suspected alternative uses of Iceland's Investigation Bank, e.g. to amplify money previously fired from Iceland's tax system. However, this acronym would have been at the expense of the government. Similarly, 400 billion will yet be explained. unexplained error in business and capital data balance at the Seal Bank. The lack of information is especially shown by Luxembourg's financial checkouts as not a reason to share information with Iceland's SEC that could be used to investigate abnormal business practices. The report contains a small amount of the tax measures that took place through Luxembourg, but it does not directly look to other tax sources. I would love to direct it to the highest. Economic and economic Ministers that here may be an investigation to further shed light on the sequence of events that led to Iceland's becoming such an important tax informer prior to and after crash, the state of affairs in the Federal Bank during this time, and also to create a legalization that prevents future failures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u35	Madam President. This has been a useful discussion. The contents of this report are being approached. I'd like to thank the advisor, but thank you very much. Financial and economic ministers, especially for his clear answers. It is clear where his heart is beating in these matters. What I believe, however, is that we need to talk at the council is how this report responds. It is quite clear, and there we are why. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy agrees, we need more data work. We need to improve data and teleportation data collection. We're in a hurry. The picture we have is very limited and limited often gives a misleading picture. Second, it calls for agencies that deal with tax control to appreciate the information of the report, and it is most likely that these institutions will provide their own estimate for the high council. Third, it is clear that the report calls for further policy by the government. That work is already in the water. One thing, of course, brings my attention to this report. All of Iceland's trade fleet is registered elsewhere than this country. We do well to ask ourselves, " How can I ever do that? What can I do here at a council meeting to change the regulations and possible tax environments and other factors so that I can see back here in Iceland? ' Of course, in the fifth place, it is proper to look at what the committee specifically mentions, that is to reevaluate double tax contracts between Iceland and particular Luxembourg and the Netherlands. [[The president calls.]] I expect the highest. A financial and economic minister may have time to answer if it is possible for him to review these two tax contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion, the prime speaker for the request and the highest. Minister for the answers. I must admit, however, that I find answers to the highest degree. Ministers are rather dreary. It says that war is declared on the results of this report. But I'm asking if we should look at it as if it's the flash drive and the calls were for these fine tanks and the missiles. I noticed that the minister's answers to measures that the minister intends to take had a significant lack of, his own ideas about action. It is good and blessed to call for suggestions from the institutions, but it must be normal to ask for political policies from the Minister himself. That can't be the highest policy. Minister not to have a course. I encourage it to the highest. A minister to consider, " Is it not proper to shape a course? ' I'd like to mention, as an example the Minister could present in his ideas about making sure that what happened, so-called U.S. territory, will never repeat itself again, that it will come up, for example. in the government policy on financial companies, that the services of an African country do not agree with the minister's policy. It is also good and blessed, as is said here on, territory of consultation, increase in prosperity and IRS, but it must also be in the state financial program as the highest level. A minister will offer, putting in more money to follow it. [[The president calls.]] I simply call it a policy, an action that we can support here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u37	Madam President. It is of great importance that the General gave a clear message that we are ready to give the government permission to participate in international measures against the use of tax machines. This message could be in the spirit of the synonym proposed by the Conspiracy to the last assembly, where the Árni of Páll Árnason was a 1st transporter. The proposal suggested that the government be committed to the international business pressure against the low tax countries in order to support the transport of funds where it may be difficult to obtain information and legal taxation on the profits and assets available to partners registered in the low tax countries. The European Union has provided suggestions for action that aims to help control the work of taxes. The suggestions hide even. in particular the development of information exchange agreements between the European Union and all countries that have undergone an OECD on the exchange of taxes and financial issues and that countries that are not prepared to submit to such agreements and be subject to pressure. It is suggested to oblige financial companies to provide information to the tax authorities on non-EU accounts that are not ready to submit to such agreements or agreements and to promote transparency and information on enterprises registered outside the European Union but which work within the territory, e.g. about who are their real owners, what will become a source of strength to money, that international companies working in the European Union have to give up all their income for taxes, and that the protection of legal punishment on the assistance of banks and others in tax collections. We should look to what other countries are doing in this regard and set new rules that ensure that we receive the tax pay we owe. I challenge the highest. Minister to be active in international cooperation on the issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u38	Madam President. Thank you for your discussion. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers he gave here, as far as they could get. I'm calling for clear answers. V.E.G. Says a minister: They'll be after further investigation. What will they be? Will Ministers themselves represent the appointment of a new group to further cooperate with the questions asked in the report? Will they be called after a consultation with the World Council and the Economic and Business Committee for these studies? Different studies will be carried out, e.g. the thin self - interest that I mentioned earlier will be considered in particular? That's what we want to hear from the highest. Minister. V.E.G. According to a minister, his assessment is that the infrastructure of the management system is sufficiently strong to cope with the problem. However, the report shows that the wood area is just put around the interior, i.e. The data and the registry, the fact that these infrastructures are not sufficiently strong. In fact, in some places these matters have already been handled, while in other places the task is still there. We want information on what to add and how much money is needed so that we can respond adequately. I'd like to mention this here, that although Norwegian banks in other parts of the North have offered the same kind of service that domestic banks did not develop in this way. Sometimes people talk in Iceland, what. Congress and politicians, all of this is about reducing taxes, that we need to win some tax contests so that the money doesn't leave the country. But wait -- compare us with the North countries where there are higher taxes on companies, higher taxes on individuals, yet this doesn't happen there. So that's obviously not the answer to the deportation, and that's at least Important information you will find in this report. Surely, then, we must look for the need to do better in the interior. There have already been some changes in legislation. Of course, we must call for a clear view of this: Need to make further adjustments in law? What infrastructure needs to be strengthened, mentioned in the report? [[The president calls.]] How will that be financed, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u39	Honorable Mr. President. I thank you for the perfunctory discussion that has been here today and is delighted to be interested. Councilmen have shown this important and serious matter. At the same time, I welcome the many ideas that have developed. I will answer the questions that came in. I can totally agree with a lot of faces. Of course, members of Congress were my answers relatively thin. I'm just a little out of the question, and I don't know the jury well enough. That's why I'm looking to the experts and institutions to find out more about it. But the matter will be put first. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy asks for annual accounts and business files and shareholder files. I believe all these files should be open and I want to add to the opinion that there should be a transparent ownership, so it's not just said that there are some societies that have other societies. The final owner should be identified. Hv. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir will discuss whether cooperation between the Federal Court and the tax authorities cannot be improved. Yes, it can be corrected. Clearly, we need better information from the Federal Bank. I don't know if they've been moving in and out of the country the same money, so they're making an assessment out of this country. But it would certainly be important to have such information. Hv. paritaprevir Resar Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir asks for direct action. I can quite accept it here again that I'm not ready for a lot of direct action right now. But I can say that we can try to counter the black economy by e.g. It's against paying cash. We can add agreements on the exchange of information and increase it, double taxation with other countries. I believe there should be more extensive research done, as some asked. [[The president calls.]] It is important to review the two tax agreements mentioned in the report that they have been abused. Of course, it is very important to set political policy, government policy. [[The president calls.]] And although I have said that the interiors of the kingdom were strong, it can be improved for a long time. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that the secretary of finance be supportive of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Social and equal agents - welcome to the hall
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u41	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u42	Minister - for housing matters that are in a very serious state at the moment. They were not spoken of in the campaign for some reason. They're in complete trouble. There is a serious problem. The prices in the capital area are very high, and at the same time, there is a shortage of rented apartments. If a man's head is so lucky to be able to smell a rented apartment, people will often be overworked. Thus, in the years that followed, many have not been able to buy or rent, and young people do not see the outcome. We know that renting conditions can have serious consequences. Research shows that tenants are much more likely to have financial problems, and tenants are also much more likely to live in poverty and poverty. More than 65% increase in real - estate prices in the capital area since 2011. The circumstances of large groups with no housing have deteriorated significantly. People looking for accommodations simply do not offer reasonable solutions at the moment. The reply of the last government was correction of the housing bar, which seemed to move the richest ten billion pieces, drove up real estate prices, while others were left with a painful forehead. The conclusion is that people who don't have fixed housing run out, children are on the drains, and shelters between school districts are constantly being torn away from friends and relatives. Of course, that is unacceptable. However, by means of the labor movement, an important success was achieved in the preparation of collective agreements in 2015. At that time the contract was negotiated for building a public tenet. These matters are mentioned in the government covenant. I want to know, is this going to be all right until 2019? The growing stage is here with the highest possible outcome, which will not make the matter simpler. Of course, there would be one way to reduce walking in the European Union and recording the euro. That is not the case with the current government at least. So you must ask, How do the government intends to attack the height of its stature? Residents spoke of the Tax Council for elections. Is it on the table, or are people looking for another way? In the long run, the housing system must be secure and predictable, ensuring the borrowers' variety of loans and benefits. There is a need to increase the financial and legal balance between different households and increase the number of housing options. It must be such that housing security is guaranteed, and this is not a risky investment. Today, finding an apartment is much more likely to be involved in roulette, even Russian roulette. As mentioned earlier, we need to build a wide range of safe rent markets and to increase the number of housing apartments with public financial resources. It is important to continue working on these solutions in close cooperation with the labor movement. The United States has long spoken of it and has suggested that one apartment be extended to a long - term estate owned by individuals free of taxes. This is a fairly effective way to increase the supply of rented apartments and recover them from their tourist rents and from public markets. At the end of the election, the Conspiracy spoke for emergency operations that involved the prospect of paying buyers or tenants to get interest payments ahead of five years at their first salary. That would have guaranteed 3 billion partners. K. in a down payment of 2.5 million single parents. K. and person 2 billion. K. We believed that it could help in an uncertain tenet and get people across this threshold because there is such a paradox that living in a rented home is even more expensive than having a home, i.e. if you can scrap into payment and make a home. That is not to say that we are not primarily to develop a mature tenet for the future. I'd like to hear from a minister, if he could assure the U.S. Congress that the agreement should be held that some 2,300 common rented apartments are available for 2019 and ask him how he handles the ideas of the United States I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you. 9th. That's the north side. For this request. This is an enormously important group of subjects, and it will not be reduced. Here are some factors and important issues. A senator brings attention to the matter. I just want to get to the subject in general first. I'd say it's a dual problem we're dealing with today. On the one hand, there is the instability that has characterized our entire economic environment, including the real estate market in recent years. We had a huge overproduction of housing during the years before a collapse that was built in a short period of time, resulting in a major problem for that particular construction company when the economy collapsed in 2008 and 2009, which returned to the fact that the building was too small in the years that followed. Actually, it's only now in the last two, three years that we see the building market rising from the ashes, literally, I would say. This brings us great challenges. We have simply built too little in recent years. Adding to the fact that housing is moving from general housing market to tourism, it still increases the need for new housing. It is of great importance that the building sector as such enjoys economic stability, greater vision, so that it does not pass through the extreme swings that we have seen it go through. Doing so will help you to be more courageous in planning. It's a long career, building an apartment. To ensure a steady supply, a good sense of responsibility is needed. It's obviously a problem for us that, both to the market information on need, with economic stability to build on and, most certainly, as a result of more stability, a lower interest level that will help us all to cover our heads or rent, if that's what we want. This is what's at the top of a new government, i.e. how we secure this economic stability. It is asked about my party's meditation, glory, and currency advice. It is so, yes, that we reevaluate money policy as one of the ways in which we view it. We do not hang our hat solely on a discussion of potential European partnerships with a reduction in interest of interest levels, we want to cover this matter firmly, how we can permanently reduce growth with improved economic management and a revised money policy. This is important for housing. With regard to the general apartments, the short answer is simply yes. We will continue to work on the commitments made by the last government in connection with the preparation of collective agreements. The demand for this strategy will be revealed. In the past, stock strengths of 2.1 billion are already being maintained at this month. I think 700 million. K. In addition, if we are to be taken care of. Then there is the year's distribution, and the plan is that we need about 2.53/4 billion a year to meet the maximum of 600 apartments a year. That's what we'll be doing at the Ministry for our own good. This is an important input and it is very important to make sure that this structure is properly supported. I'd like to mention that there has been some advice on authority to use pension money for the first time, which is a positive step. There have been tax changes to promote taxes on rent, as well as positive steps. I think it's interesting to see how we support the next level, if we're building a social apartment system, i.e. how to direct our support when it comes to growth or housing into a possible narrower group that really needs assistance but not to spread it too far and wide, as we have sometimes been criticized and eventually only increasing real estate prices and a growing rent price. This is something I would like to consider. Clearly, there is something else that we need to consider. More important, we need to consider running weights. That's where we come in with our communities. There I would call for rural society to conform to its plans, but more so, we need to consider that structure is not our only solution. That's an expensive option. If we are looking for an inexpensive small home for young people, we need to be able to provide them in a practical way. Although it is a positive, good step, we cannot monotonously build a foundation. Then I think I've wasted my time, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u45	Mr. President. The government's contract does not mention just rent or housing issues. A roof above the head is probably found in the Western world, but the status of the local housing markets, as it has been shown, is extremely narrow, especially among young people and poor income. The specialism that has been run in Iceland has a major impact on young people's potential and on the low income to secure a roof over their heads. Clearly, during the last few years, significant increases in real - estate prices have made it difficult for this group to acquire their first real estate. Then there is the tenure market situation, which is largely due to increased activity in tourism. The percentage of pay paid by the home devoted to payment of mortgages has gone up over the past few years, as shown in the latest Economic Index of VR. Accordingly, this ratio today averaged 20 to21%, with 18% occurring shortly after the economic collapse. From Haustabies it is noted that in a ten - year period, since 2004-2015, the percentage of young people at the parents'home was highest in 2015, or about 40%. These are strong evidences that it is increasingly difficult for young people to buy their first apartment, people who are often among low - income groups. It is important to support the development of housing on social grounds in cooperation with unions and rural communities. The report of the Strategic Watch Tower, January 2015, provides suggestions on how to overcome poverty. One of these provisions for housing, but the welfare watch suggests the relief of expenses from poor families and those living at a taxing cost. It also suggests that the payment of this group will be well up to 40% of his provisional items, whether in a lease or in a court of law. In contrast, our cousin Danir, whom we have mentioned today, suggests that rent cost is about 20% of income families by taxes. [[The president calls.]] If Iceland is to become desirable for all who wish to participate in the future building an Icelandic community, as stated in a government contract, a clear policy on housing needs to be set, where young people and revenues are in the foreground.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u46	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss housing matters, which, of course, are extremely important and complex. But each of us agrees on the importance of having a roof over his head, whether they choose to rent or to be able or to want to buy real estate. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for encouraging this discussion at the council and thanking the minister for his comments. The status of the housing market has been very intense in recent years, and the mass - free collapse has taken an enormous effect on that market. V.E.G. A minister came to a good conclusion about how this would have affected him, but the reality is that the construction market in this country has been in swings very often, not just in recent years. There's something that I think the government and the government, whether it's us here, our rural society or the market itself, must work together to achieve a balance on that market. For society, that is of utmost importance. I think there are probably a few jobs that have as many bankruptcy as this sector. During the last term, substantial adjustments in housing matters were made. I trusted it. I heard it at the highest. Minister that he will follow it closely. I think it's important to watch. The need for rented apartments was considered here. He has been very active in his recent discussions. Then I'd like to point out, because I have numbers on it in the capital area, that we realize that apartments have not increased as much as we expected, the rural communities in the capital area. During 2006●2015, an additional 8,100 apartments were added to the area. Less than 50% of those apartments are owned by law. So I'm going to assume that most of the lawyers are probably tenants. So it is becoming an enormous change in this market in a very short time. We were talking about this a couple of years ago, that they needed rent camps, but now their tenants are making handsome and have made quite an investment in 2016. [[The president calls.]] I think this is something we need to consider, but I also refer to what was presented in the case of a minister: When it comes to the cost of real estate, the interest costs are the major factor. Of course, there's a premeditated economy that we're in here for the most important part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u47	A respectable president. The world will be more international by day. Many young people have lived in many lands, and they want to move in a simple way. The opportunities in the great world are inexhaustible. Therefore, for the country and country, it is of utmost importance that Iceland is supported by those who want to take advantage of these opportunities, since it will eventually benefit us all. That's where the tenant fort gets in. It needs to be realistic, stable, and safe to rent. Buying a concrete rock is no longer everyone's dream, and in many ways it can be unwise. For families and young adults to be able to spend their days and years in rent - rent sales, it must be realistic to live in the same home while their children grow up and go to the same school. Living in a rented home should not reduce the quality of life. Many who buy today are merely seeking stability for their families so that their children can enjoy security among their familiar peers. For this to happen, it must be motivated to make long-term contracts, e.g. by the tax system, thus strengthening the right of tenants. It is also important that rent contracts be developed as well as that of tenants'understanding of their rights. Mr. President. I have in my brief career as a tenant in Iceland found that there is a huge imbalance between landlords and renters. The right sense of tenants is extremely poor, and their real rights are also. So I'd like to use this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. A minister of what is to do to improve the legal status of tenants and to better instruct them about his rights. I have found that in my dealings with other tenants who have had problems similar to mine with landlords who have taken their rights seriously, people are not aware of their rights. I ask: Is it possible to make long - term dating for the lease so that people can stay there long term? What is to be done to promote rent - out rights and rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u48	A respectable president. Again, after the problem comes, we take some steps to take. As we have seen, the building market is very unstable. In the past decade, we have been aimless in a travel service that has a significant impact on housing problems, especially the rented market, where much of the rent house goes to temporary rents to tourists and skis the market. What I'm celebrating, though, and I also want to repeat, is the local government company and the community's cooperation with the state, which I've always found to be very lacking. Without going directly to the analysis of the structural changes that are being carried out with the local labour laws, which are being introduced into a new system, I'm not going to necessarily evaluate it here, but I'd like to use this opportunity and focus on my partner because each member of the community has its own housing policy. What I would like to enter is the tenet, the general market, and the social market. We've got all kinds of systems going on that directly involved in this matter that we're discussing right here. Farmers are in full possession of this strategy, but there is never a consultation with the State in these matters. I'll call for it. In fact, there is a great deal of desire in this government to have increased consultation with the rural communities in this market, and I welcome it, but what your communities have has is organizational authority, resources and close-up services. They have offered some resources that actually involve rent markets, social markets, young people, children's families, and children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u49	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion, Prime Minister for starting it and the highest. Minister for his answers. At the same time, I want to take this opportunity and wish him a good job. I'll tell you, I was very happy to hear the answers given by the minister on the premises. Actually, it's much better than when I read the government covenant where I couldn't find, despite the computer's help, there was a home. Here, however, we hear that the minister intends to continue stressing the housing issues and is fully aware of their importance in the land. I will admit that in view of the fact that I could not see any policies in the government covenant, I had a chance to look at the board's policies for elections and to see that men had concluded solutions and suggestions about them. In the case of the restoration, particular emphasis was given on improving the supply of property, which was well aware of our lack of supply. We can see that despite the increased financial resources of people, higher wages, and lower interest rates, even contracts have been reduced or replaced. Thus, people have been unable to buy homes even if they wanted to. We can also see both when a person examines the conclusions of the Independence Party and the restoration of a simple building order and its surroundings. I think it's something that's very important, though it's not under the highest order. Minister, that the environment remains to be simplified, but also the laws, the organizational laws, and the anthropological laws. I sure hope that's the best. Environment and resource secretary is considering these matters. I'd also like to state specifically that I'm very glad to hear that the plan is to fulfill the promises of the previous government on the construction of the general apartment system. [[The president calls.]] I hope that the Minister will take what may be necessary, to ensure additional funds on that assignment if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion that is needed. It's a very important subject that burns in so many people. If you can say that something is the heart of an equal, it is the home matter. For nearly a hundred years, we have fought for reform in that area of the country, to secure family members, young people, and chemical groups, and to secure housing. This can be seen in many parts of the community, both in past and in the late years. Home security, regardless of the economy, is essential to equal opportunities and general welfare. During the financial crash, hundreds of families arrived during a time of hope, were cleared up in the background. Sadly, the opportunity to create a successful tenement was not used when the camp loan fund gained an enormous amount of apartment housing. So it is heavier than tears to see the present crisis that has been taking place for some years. It is also surprising that in the government's declaration of policy, it is not easy to find out about this fundamental issue. There are many reasons for this difficult situation. One of them is that buildings lay down for a while after a collapse, and general housing is followed by a great flood of tourists, now being a cabin here, especially in the capital area. However, housing problems are also attractive in the country, with growth, maintenance, and a growing number of cleaning. It is a challenge to know how to deal with it. It will not be possible to deal with conventional marketing solutions. We hope that the government will use its regional policy, which is, of course, policy, because it is a very attractive government that will handle this with impenetrableness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For requesting that we have a special discussion on the matter of housing, the son of Einarsson is on fire. This is an extremely important group of subjects, and it is necessary for governments to cooperate in a systematic way so that there will be a family life that will be sustained in comparison with other Norwegian countries. It's just where housing matters are very important. It is quite clear to me that when it comes to securing competitive living in this country, it is vital that we make a mistake at the interest level in the country, which I believe we all agree that it is too high and that it has been published in the speeches of many members of Congress. You see, we are in this country where because of too high a interest level, people end up paying for their housing, not just twice, but almost three times. This is unannounced, especially if we look at the fact that in neighboring lands, people in general do not pay more than one and a half rent. That is why - that is why - the government has placed great emphasis on the Treaty that we reevaluate the money policy with the goal of achieving a stable gang, which returns to a lower interest level. A lower interest level then yields a lower payment on the mortgage, which produces a higher supply of tea, not just for individuals and families, but a lower level of interest for companies and, eventually, to state funds. The lower weight of the state funds then means that we have more to play into, for example. The transportation system, into the health system, into the welfare system and the education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u52	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. I want to offer the highest. Ministers welcome to work and wish him good luck. He said that the reduction in housing options for young people and in income gains results in economic instability. Today's instability involves our not having adequate solutions, neither for young people nor for the people in general, who are unable to have their own housing. Of course, we can say much about the status of young people in the housing market, which is very different. A college student at a student store is probably better than the one who needs to be in a rented room in town. Then there's the loan market that's been tore up here, which isn't good. I'd like to ask a minister, because the role of a bank has diminished and the role of a pension fund has grown when it comes to younger people, especially about housing: Wouldn't it be exciting to get an assessment of the loan options and credit rates of individuals under 35. We need to make sure we have real options. We need to ensure a loan for all age groups, all income groups. There should be no more than 1/4 provisional items for housing. I'd also like to come into what's only been tore up, i.e. the pursuit of tourists in rented homes. As we know, much of the house is available to tourists, causing their rent to be the way it is, and it narrows the benefits. The joint compression on the holding, which we see both in the big-city area and in other parts of the country, when real estate communities own thousands of apartments, is a major concern. This is a new development, since in the past we did not know this. We need to examine this effect at its height and length. I think locals and the city need to examine their ability to react to and put in an Airbnb, or whatever it's called, some limits to prevent this. [[The president calls.]] I think we agree that we want an Icelandic community to be built on cultivating and making good use of young people and making sure that they want to live and work here and have an opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. 9th. That's the north side. "Logi Einarsson for taking up this discussion. It's very good to have her. I just want to take a little picture of what the situation has been in the capital area for the past 20 years. During the 1980's, the number of inhabitants of Reykjavík increased by 18.9%. In Kragani, neighboring companions of Reykjavík City, the number increased by 70.6%. The course of the capital capital for the past 20 years has primarily been about convergence areas, and it is based on expensive possessions, real luxury apartments, as you know these days when you are checking your own housing here. That is true of the capital city and of neighboring communities as well. They are building very expensive apartments, such as tomb holes and other materials when men detracted. I just wanted to direct it to the social and equality minister to see if there's any diagnostic work to be done on this, how you're going to look at these scenarios that have come up and what you want to look at. It can be, for example. pointed out that in 2010●2016, the number of apartments in Reykjavík increased by 3.4% but at the same time in neighboring communities was 9.4%. In the big problems that have been having the housing business in the capital area in recent years, the main problems have been handled by neighboring communities. There's a lot of talk about inadequate weights. They set out in Reykjavík 20 years ago, offering property, and we see an enormously high price on land prices, which now accounts for 10◯12 million people on an apartment. Then I'm not talking about the capital. Then we can talk about the effects of tourism and such things, but I just wanted to come over to see if there's anything in the greater context of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u54	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank an advert for this extremely important discussion, as the facilities are in total disrepute in Iceland. We're talking about Iceland as a European country along with Norway, where the share of special property is at its highest, because it's been run here called a specialist policy. At the same time that a special policy is fired, we see that the rented apartments have come in far more abundantly into what is known as the shared economy, or Airbnb. The economic system would now be an excellent phenomenon if it wasn't for the fault that it had become a standard capitalist system. According to figures, more than a thousand apartments in the capital area are used each month, especially in 101, since we're always talking about sealing, since we're always talking about young people wanting to live, there's small apartments, and there's a sizable old apartment from the early city in Reykjavík. These dressings are mostly used for the use of Airbnb today. It's a problem. That's a problem when we start to view people's homes as gambling money. When you have a home, you've got a big break. The ability to keep a home must be overthe sea being part of a special policy or criminal activity, so adapted, as much of this ANSnb thing is, where not much of it is given up to the tax. But we need to rethink what it means to have a home. [[The president calls.]] This does not necessarily mean owning it yourself. This means being confident of maintaining a home in the same place for the next two, three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u55	V.E.G. President. I want to start thanking you. paritaprevir Flira Einarsson for starting this discussion. It is particularly important in view of the fact that in the Treaty of a new government under the Head of the Independence Party, no housing issues are discussed. Like what? paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir, too, has been looking through the computer for housing, and the results did not work. During the last term when the advance party gave the government president a high priority on housing matters. It was done to improve the interest of the households through the correction, to meet the young by performing the first estate, and to help support housing partners. At the same time, large reforms and preparations were being made for a secure rented market, with the goal that 2,300 tenants would be built in four years. Best of all, during the last spring, the tenet markets were won in a tripolitic settlement at the General Assembly. In fact, much change was made on the subject. A welfare committee where the matter was being discussed and, including, Arrangements are being made to an area where loans have been difficult for the past few years. It was a decision in transpiritian harmony amongst all. Committees to increase stock strength to areas that are more expensive to the system. I want to ask the highest. A minister of Jehovah's Witnesses whether he has studied the expense it brings and whether he will ensure that the funds he will get into the process of carrying on this prior government. It's very important that all of this be included. The issues I listed earlier were one of the main priorities of the former government, for we all know that we need to have different living forms in this country, and people have to have a choice whether they live in their own homes, rent houses, or go between the way to the other housing communities. [[The president calls.]] I can't finish everything I was going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u56	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. Of course, they make better promises than those of the government covenant. I hope we'll cooperate on these matters. Dating is not just a matter of living. Here, people have been talking about structure and other things. Then let's talk about climate and waste. Icelanders live on average in 65 square feet [65 square meters] while Finni lives e.g. of 34. There's a lot to pick up, too. Here, too, was a reference to correction and first estate. Both options used and used best for more rich ones. Let us look for ways to meet those who truly need help. There I can wholeheartedly agree. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Sunna talking about the importance of rent. A flat is not necessary, rights need to be guaranteed, especially when renting people who seem to have a short - term basis. We need to promote social stability through a mature tenet. But just at the end, because we've just been talking about the capital, one question to the highest. Minister: We've talked a lot about transports and everything would be solved if rural areas were going to be running around. I'm sure there's plenty of property available at Redfarves, Thors Harbor, Snæfellsnes, many places all over the country. The problem there is different. It is that the expense of the apartment is much higher than that of the apartment. How are you planning to go to the top? A minister handles that problem? It's a matter of being inhabited in the land, of justice and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-25-18.u57	A respectable president. I thank you again for a very good discussion on these matters. There's a lot of things in here. I'm gonna try to spade fast. We've come to a good conclusion that we're dealing with an auction problem. We need to deal with it. We need to increase the build-up, especially on the southwest corner. It is true that this problem does not exist in many parts of the country. However, we have seen that the real prices in the warm areas of the country are increasing greatly, so some of these are meeting; the price of construction and the market, allowing them to build new apartments on the land as well. There's so much in there. But what we need, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson is a smaller apartment. This has been eight years when we need a smaller apartment, but it has been built of them very little. We are to rethink how we live and live, especially for young people. Why can't we build a spirit container like that? In general, whether for rent or for sale, do students have the spray? That's where we're supposed to shake things up and think again. It is important to take this factor. My belief is that public support should be directed to those who really need it. We're not supposed to get him out too flat. We are to be supportive of the small - income families that need either social housing or in the next step while other provisional incomes are easily able to handle real estate or rent and should not have public support for it. We're supposed to be increasing the flexibility in this. We're not supposed to make a distinction between rent house and property. However, it can be kept in mind that, in the long term, the estate is owned better than renting. It's simply so. It's a lower load of payment. However, for those who are thinking of moving, possibly to other countries, abroad, to have access to rent houses where needed, there must be flexibility. I don't think I'm gonna make it any further in this discussion, but we'll keep an eye on evolution. [[The president calls.]] House affairs are very high in the Ministry, and they will remain.
