ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a committee study with a bill-change proposal to correct a change in the legal handling of credits that depend on the specific limits, No. 37/2016, with subsequent changes, assessment warrants. This is a report from the Economic and Business Committee. The committee took care of the case at their meeting on May 18th. As a result, the Committee received a discourse from Iceland's Secret Bank showing that the World Bank's embassy had been made comments on 1st paragraph. The bill wouldn't cover the payouts of the same amount of credit. The committee was contacted by a representative of Iceland's Central Bank on the case. In view of the comments made by Iceland's Pentateuch, the Commission proposes a warrant according to Article 1. The bill includes terms of contractual payments on the end-days of loan commitments, but not credit bonds, which involve only payment on dues. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following adjustment, and the change is in the Senate document, which reads: Instead of the words ▪ for the final days of the fee, 1st par. Come on: other than bonding. This was approved at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on May 23, 2017. Under the opinion of President Óli Björn Kárason, Chairman Vilhjálmur Bjarnason of History, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnjörnótttir, Braunr Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredótir, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjosdósdótir, and Smári Mccarthy. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u3	Madam President. We'll discuss a document designed to be one of the most important documents in every government along with financial policy. It is not a small responsibility of this contribution, but it involves not just writing numbers, it is a fundamental factor in the political policy of every government for the next five years, a fundamental factor in determining the kind of politics here to rule over the next five years in raising funds for state funds and distribution. Thus, the budget is the political policy of a government that is sitting here with one person more part and less part of the vote behind him. It's not that it's political that comes out here, like that. This is not a political entity that contributes to the true reform of the nation and its community, which the government groups praised and announced for elections. This is politics, and it's inactivity, politics contracting, and inactivity. The basis for the budget of the Independence Party budget, the restoration and the bright future, is weak and will not contribute to economic stability or social stability, much less. A five - year budget is now submitted a second time. As stated in Article 1, the law on public financial and financial matters is intended for them. Theirs, to promote economic well - beings and the robust and responsible government of public finance. Of course, this plan is worth a lot of money, and it certainly has to be reciprocated for public financial matters, for it was very different from the political powers of the Council in its own time. However, when it came to the final payment of the case, it was found that the intention of the then state of the government, an independent party, and a forwarding group, was that the law would be a very rigid financial code that is now to be found, an order of absence, an obligation, and a fall in debt. Thus, when representatives of the left movement decided to act alone against the members of the administration and the whole case and strongly object to these strategies on grounds of a tightening of rules and legally establishing them to hold government control in a decisive way in dealing with the contractions and difficulties of the economy. Instead, it is planned that the welfare system and public activity will be summarized under such circumstances. We all know that such a recession is always worst for those who are economically inferior. These financial rules that I mentioned are, in fact, in fact, leading to legalization of cutback policy and maintenance that right - handed governments have ever used in public finance over the past decades, when economic problems have been ill - treated, with the result that in many countries the well - being and important basic services of the government have been expanded by the long - term financial resources. Thus, it has been created an application tool for wealth and privatization in behalf of capital owners with reason that they should act where the government does not choose its work. In the financial program of the present government, which foretold at the beginning of its power period a dramatic conversation and words, it is chosen to expand the debate on these budgets and to be observed when the government proposed its financial policies leading to the financial agenda that we are discussing here. There the current government added a new and very limited fence, a total tax sheet for the government as a proportion of GDP. This roof is attached to the current public activity, making virtually nothing possible for building up, and there is virtually no room to soften the impact of the negative economy when it comes. This has been critical of members of the left movement, with financial policy being a clean right policy in the spirit of cutbacks and right - to - hand policies, which can be found in most places other than here. It was not just council members of the left green who criticized their policies and plans. An independent financial adviser put it as if governments could easily end up in a straitjacket of economicism if the sequence of events proved to be different from what they predicted. The budget is now based on this financial policy. The reports on the plan show that many share financial concerns with the above - mentioned straitjackets. The one here is on both the Economic and Business Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, so I would like to use my speech lesson to highlight the emphasis they will review with the financial committees. For one thing, a financial programme is completely uncertain about economic conditions. Not only do I have my opinion but it is explained by the review of a financial board that there are a lot of uncertainty about national and economic factors. Thus the Council points out that a consistent effort could be made in Iceland's models and projections when the budget is being worked. In the opinion of the Council of Economic Affairs, the President's permission states: ▪ Every major member of the country uses the Society's model in its forecasting. This is a concern. Single models lead to uniform forecasts and economic debates become uniform. Such a course increases the risk of all making the same mistakes. The Council's review gives additional comments to the methodology used in the development of the financial programme. For example, during recent years the forecasts were not repetitious, and so the national interest forecasts changed significantly over time. No analysis, however, is found in the financial program on these systematic forecasts on government finances. Such an analysis would, in the opinion of the financial Council, increase the transparency that is supposed to be one of the baseline financial and financial policies. At that time, financial advisers question the basics that the secretary of finance seems to favor him in a financial program. For example, national interest projections assume that national savings has increased permanently without a lack of evidence. The only evidence for the claim of such progress is a description of personal contractions from 2008. According to one financial board, private consumption as a proportion of GDP is usually about one third in Western countries and it is difficult to see why Iceland should stand out in its long term. Another example of uncertainty is that the plan is based on Iceland's Habitat, which assumes that smooth landings after the present trend of the Icelandic economy, and hence this long economic growth will go through without difficulty. On the other hand, the review of the financial board states that history teaches us that hard landings, not as follows, in Iceland and that it is desirable to have stayed below itself and consider the risks. In any case, it would be reasonable to take into account the predictions and analyses of other investigators as specified in the law. When it comes to the low level and content of income sources published in the financial programme, the main tax change is that travel services will be moved from lower levels to the top level of the valuable tax system, but the upper level will be reduced. Many talks have been held and strong criticisms have been raised, both during the council and in the community. But if we just focus on the income that this procedure is to bring to the state's fund, moving the tourism to the top level of the worthy tax system, it should contain 17.5 billion dollars. every year starting in 2019 but there is a decline in the upper level of the value tax system, which is estimated to result in 13.5 billion dollars. reduces the annual income of the state funds. The net effect of this operation should therefore be 4 billion U.S. This change was the most common thing in the management of the economic and business committee. This procedure seems to have surprised tourists, as we have all observed, on the contrary to the words of various government officials before elections. In the treatment of the case, it was stated that there was no consultation with these parties on the operation, despite the fact that tourism and the government are running a common so-called travel center with the intention of developing a common policy. The reason for the operation is that tourism should be comparable to the tax environment and other occupations. At the same time, Icelandic tourism is competing with tourism in other European countries and this increase will become reality, with a high level of value taxes compared to other European countries. During the treatment of the case, there was repeated concern that the increase in worth taxation could affect the distribution of tourists across the country, which has yet been a declared government policy until now, but the distribution of tourists into the country is closely related to their residence duration, where a shorter stay would inevitably be closer to the capital area and the centre of international flights. The evaluation of financial resources tax increase in tourism is of interest, but the board believes that tax treatment should be comparable to other employment practices. However, in the timing of the procedure, question marks the time of the procedure as well as the option to lower the top value tax level, which is followed by the procedure transporting tax collections of domestic demand. Other than that, I miss finding a much more ambitious and detailed plan for green taxes. It's certainly offered a double carbon charge as another tax-based operation, with the merit of tax increase in tourism. That double is a very reasonable arrangement, for the price must be higher than today in order to produce the desired results in the reduction of carbon emissions. However, it is disturbing to know how short the policy on green taxes is, and no consultation seems to have been made, rather, on the rise of carbon taxes or other potentially green taxes. A financial minister has spoken for parking expenses as part of these green taxes, but it has not been considered how such costs fit in with other policies. There is no analysis of the number of parking spaces in areas where some more extensive analysis of regional tolerability and the basis for their population is needed. I am the burden, Madam President, that we must do much better when it comes to policy and vision regarding green taxation. I remind you, the highest. Environment Minister has spoken here at the council about green taxes and needs to increase the number of green taxes within the tax system. There, I wholeheartedly agree with the highest. Environment Minister, but I doubt that all government ministers agree with that statement. This is not shown in the financial program. I also refer to words and magazine articles as the highest. The minister of justice wrote in the February 12 issue of Awake! Since it challenged green taxes and green incentives and economic and economic levels, it greatly challenged and warned against them. I ask, then, is there no agreement within the government on the taxation of green taxes? Iceland has to take really good care of her pants, and it's going to be a lot better when it comes to climate change. A part of it is green taxes and a strong vision for the future. Another thing I'd like to consider here is a review in which we in the 2nd smaller part of the foreign committee pointed to and severely criticized both here at the General and in our financial reviews, which are contributions for development. When it comes to developing and providing for them, the proposed contributions for developing cooperation adopted at the General Assembly of all the then members of Congress, except Vigdís Hauksdóttir, in 2013. The financial program for the next five years shows that the government supports the UN's goal for industrialized countries to provide 0.7% of the nation's incomes for developing cooperation. Of course, we in a smaller part of the State Department agree with the objective, but we also agree on how a budget of this important category is being implemented in a financial program for the next five years. It says that developing cooperation contributions were 0.25% of the budget of national income in 2016 and aim to continue to be 0.25% in 2017, increasing by 0.01% throughout the period. This is certainly not in harmony with the moral duties of Iceland as one of the greatest nations in the world and not in accordance with the international duties we have had and have aimed for years but never fulfilled. Now that the economic situation is in such a way that it is indeed an opportunity to add in these expenditures, what is the focus of the present government? It is continuing with this contracture set out in 2015. The need for international humanitarian and evolutionary support has rarely been greater in the world than that of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, now over 65 million refugees are fleeing from war, persecutions, natural disasters, and poverty. This year, the refugee agency sent out a distress call to the world to increase resources for humanitarian work and development cooperation. A lower part of the State Department denounces this ambition of the government and suggests that immediately a plan will be made to increase the contribution to development cooperation in order to achieve the goal of the United Nations. If the 2013 Parliamentary Directive had been followed, Iceland's contributions to development teamwork would have received 0.42% of the population income in 2016, were 0.5% in 2017, and entered the UN standards of 0.7% in 2019. This schedule was offline in the spring of 2015 and the contributions were combined. This sad recession continues in the financial program of an independent group of governments, reforms, and the bright future. In the world, there are dangers that can lead to security. Unfortunately, the response to the government's financial programme for safety should be based on increasing safety rates, while at the same time extremely vague military emphasis at the same time as the Icelandic state is struggling to meet its own goal in developing cohesion. At the same time, the government is expected to contribute more to the conflict and inadequacy and the state that drive a number of people away from their homelands, thus adding to world instability and insecurity. A respectable president. This is outrageous. It is a disgrace to the government parties to support these plans. I wondered, and I have previously said in the House of Congress that they would ask questions about which categories of independence, restoration, and a bright future have come into existence by supporting this program. It is likely that it would be unsatisfactory to list all the uncertainty issues that have been identified in the financial program of the Council treatment of the committees of the council. However, a red thread in the review of the financial council is missing more data and analysis. When it comes to the review of property and debt, it is stated that dissociative data are not available, so it cannot be said to policy on the evolution of debt does not damage sustainableness or balance it, which, though, should be baseline in financial and financial policies. If you rely on social stability in Icelandic society, it is crystal clear that the institutions of the State need to be established. Don't weaken them. There is plenty of urgent social projects, but we can allow ourselves to give up. Who are we giving up on? Yes, to those who live best in Icelandic society. By strengthening to develop companies and other enterprises and to those with the very best money in Icelandic society. The recent budget, after many conservative years, has not been used for social building. Tax and expenditures on the richest community groups have been reduced in a way that has resulted in the state of the world of 2,530 billion. Let us take a year's basis that would surely have been useful for the better and the upbuilding of all of us. How we as a community decide to manage our finances is at the same time a decision to build up a community. In the left green, we want the objective and purpose of government funds to ensure all the opportunities to enjoy themselves in the community and that everyone is committed to a decent standing. It can be done through financial and financial policies that aim to increase the balance in society by obtaining a wealth of government income in a just way. As a result, it will be new to promote health care, education systems, welfare systems, infrastructure development, and to ensure the most vulnerable groups of people. It is irresponsible to provide economic management so as not to earn enough money, that, when things become less intense and expand, they will inevitably be cut down. Where, then, will they be cut down? It will be cut down on the expense of the economy, on the welfare system, on the health system, and on the education system, because it is always what comes first to the operating of the right government. The imminent cutting is hardly compatible with the baseline financial policy presented here, which is sustainable, careful, stable and transparent. I'm afraid not. I regret the dreary political bitch here called on for the next five years in the government of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Career's Future. I dispute that this financial program, which should be called, will be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very good speech. The budget shows that the current budget is 1.5%, a substantial change from a previous national budget of 1%. According to analyses, this could remember about 10◯12 billion. Takes it. A senator will assume that this large increase in maintenance requirement could suffer on the infrastructure, such as In the health system, in the education system, in the transportation system? Does it also agree with me that this national budget is based on a very weak foundation? A very long economic growth is expected to be uncertain. I would also like to ask: " What is it? ' In this program, how difficult is a senator to see how to meet the goals set out in this financial program when it is set in such inadequate terms as we see here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u5	The president will begin by addressing the council to see if there is a time limit. There are 51 people on the rosary, and if everyone takes an additional 10 to 15 seconds, it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u6	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for the inquiry. She asks me if I agree with her about the high standards presented here, by the billions, i.e. an additional requirement. Yes, I agree with her. Despite all of us agree to pay off debt and that it is the good, we go under this financial programme for the next five years down to the legal limit when it comes to payment. We stretch so far in the subsidies that it falls on the multi-digited infrastructure and structure of those to whom it truly needs. If we could just relax in paying off the debt of state funds - we would always pay them down, never would we have to reach that far - be money to care for this urgent task that is truly obvious to us wherever we come from. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that all classes spoke of the importance of infrastructure in leading the last election? Got it. Is it not difficult for a senator to establish some structure based on the national financial programme that we are discussing here? On the other hand, we see a 23% increase in hospital service, but this gives us a sharp picture of the situation, since a new Hospital Building is being mixed up and the cost of operating in the hospital. It has been shown in a material process in the council that 13 billion are needed to complete a new land hospital and 7 billion to complete the rebuilding of old buildings. Is this not, in fact, an election fraud, which discussed the importance of improving the situation of patients and employees, but then no funding is given to complete the work mentioned? Is that not very critical?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u8	Madam President. That is exactly one of these critical factors, not just members of Congress, but what is pointed out in the number of comments that have been presented during the conference treatment of the case, i.e. The type of deception presented in this program when it comes to mixing concrete with operating costs. The estimated stone charge in the building is put under the same hat as the cost of operating. Whether we speak of the construction of the Land Hospital or of contributions to the university, there are houses included in that number. It is critical and almost intolerable. Not only is this because there is little money for the real building of these fundamental structures in our society but it is also some sort of number play that does not fit in with the light being presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u9	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for a very good speech. She even remembered. the value of tax changes planned for financial programmes. I'd like to take a little deeper into that matter and hear her view of the comments made by SAF, the Traveller Association. I'm here with the review and I'm asking if the Senator read it. It is, in fact, there. It is now only a short period of time - on page 20 - that shows negative effects on the country's environment, gang changes that have severely impaired the competitiveness of the article. 11 The review shows that these changes are actually going to complicate the system and potentially increase the complexity and efficiency of the system. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator's review of this and this aspect of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u10	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, I've read that review from the Association of Tourism and the Criticism it presents. As noted, this increase in worth tax rates adds up to a value tax increase in the past year and gang strength and is fully poorly implemented, there is no basis for analysis, much less consultation with the article. I also wondered if just checking with the article and possibly waiting for the validation of this increase would have made it possible for me to make greater peace about this operation and to take into account the factors involved. A senator mentioned the effect on the memory of the people, especially smaller members of the region that are farther away from the capital area. This will, as stated in the review of the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, affect the remainder of the period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u11	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I'd also like to come to the countryside. Iceland's Union brought in a much greater and more detailed review of the matter. At a meeting with a Government Review came in, including ........................................................................................................................ It is known in advance that the numbers do not work at all. Government Accounters said it was just crazy to put it this way. Here on page 16. 1 The review says the relationship is that the targets for rural society are unrealistic, and the agreed financial programmes of rural society are mispronounced. They strongly criticize the lack of consultation on the shape of financial criteria for the survival and economy of rural society. This is a huge case in which the contribution of rural society is a very large part of public business today and is very important. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator's concern on this grandly important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u12	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for later her answer. I wholeheartedly agree with her on this giant case, which is the financial situation of the rural society and the uncertainty factors presented in the State's financial program regarding the communities, this is totally unacceptable. This is also shown in the review of the financial Council and in the very harsh review of the European Union's society. It is simply unacceptable and unacceptable how there is no analysis of the plans already being made to interfere with the government's spending and then the financial community. It certainly needs to be done better, for the financial community is still another uncertainty factor in whether the final objective to measure the responsibility of the State or the community is ultimately to be found. I've read the reviews for why. A senator from the budget board who cares for her in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for a very good speech. Much of what was presented there was of interest. First, I wanted to mention that in her case, she made comments that prophets all used the same model. What happens then is that the projection becomes very similar, both predictions of economic growth, personal consumption, investments, and so forth. It's really so small that it's even 0.23/4.3%. So when national interest is reviewed, economic growth is even 31.74% higher. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What does she think could be done to correct this situation? Of course, there is a great deal of interest in national interests that there is some intervening variability, especially in rebuilding national ideals, and there is so much difference between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u14	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is most reprehensible how uniform forecasts are to support a financial agenda. That is a major concern, not only of the one standing here but also of a financial body, as shown in its review. This has been pointed out by a financial body. This is an enormous uncertainty about various national and economic factors. The financial adviser suggests that these analyses, at least increasing their diversity, should be improved to support the criteria that support the fundamental budget for the next five years. I don't have the solution right now, but I think we need to take financial tips very seriously. It is not advisable to have uniform envelopes of the analysts laid the foundation for the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u15	A respectable president. I apologize for how fast I was in a speaker's bag. It's just so me and what. paritaprevir The Red Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir practiced free sports at the same time, so we're used to trading the cylinder. So I just went into the old gear. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you. The senator's answer. Then I'd like to go to the next thing she went along with, but that's the net effect of the cost taxation change that's only 4 billion. I have to tell you my point, I feel like I'm making a really big change when the net effect is no more. First, just turn down. Counts 'em out. A senator did not think that preparation would have had to be much greater, especially in view of the lack of net effect? We could have gone to this by putting on return charges. I figure even a quarter of a dollar, like 2,000 dollars per ticket, could reach the four billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u16	Madam President. It's nice to think of old rhythms with what they're talking about. Senator. But about this net-gravity effect as far as possible. A senator came in, and at the end of the day, they prove to be just about 4 billion. Listening to a talk was quite interesting. A few days ago, a minister of tourism and industry in the General's symposium declared that their pay and pay would be negligible, despite their ability to run on several billion, such as on the eve of water. A senator pointed out. I find it quite strange when we talk about growing income in the state's budget, that income that even runs in 153/4 billion isn't worth much. At best I find it careless, and I wondered why the government's Minister is finding several billion here, and there's nothing in it when we need billions of dollars to promote community infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u17	A respectable president. I thought about it in the case of a talk. A senator that we have a growing need for maintenance, a collection of construction needs, a need for infrastructure, and so forth. Hv. A senator mentioned the need for us to increase our income. It is interesting to note that making more money, paying more money, does not necessarily lead to less maintenance. If so, I would like to ask: We may know to some extent what is the value of maintenance and implementation needs, is it unavoidable that we have to make more money? We do not necessarily know where we need to go in maintenance and building. Though we have a gross idea, there is no good plan. Could we be within the current frame, if we knew more, finish the time process?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u18	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator resists. The answer to the last question is: I don't think we could do that from the current frame. We'd have to step up on the income side to attack the necessary maintenance of state property, roads, schools, etc. It is also pointed out in the review of the financial Council, if I do not vacate, that insufficient maintenance costs, i.e. It costs to keep our anger up and not to take needed maintenance measures, as this will ultimately cost us. I wondered, too, which way. A senator would agree that we too need to expect minimal maintenance. We'll see what's happening with the transport and road system, i.e. The one that has been neglected under the right, both now and during the last term, is leading us into trouble. The bill always goes up by dropping wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u19	A respectable president. The feeling I got at the campaign was that I had to do something everywhere. That would be necessary. I don't see anything else, though the information isn't well enough, but there's an increase in revenue, just because there's a lack of structure everywhere. It is true that this was one of the points I highlighted in the financial discussion. Yes, we save some interest cost by paying off debts, but the cost of using the same money, e.g. not on infrastructure or maintenance, the cost may be increased later in the infrastructure. In this whole situation, in view of the current situation and the financial policy they already have, in view of the infrastructure that needs and the need to carry out by which we have been made aware, but not exactly so that we can actually prioritize, I wondered what the outcome of the election would be if we were to vote for this financial programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u20	Madam President. I think we're gonna do what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson agrees that it is maintained and draughted, we are left with only a larger account. We have seen this not only as far as health care is concerned but also as the road system and the transportation system. There is no realistic plan to be found in this financial programme on infrastructure, maintenance or funding in the area that could be some measure of action to meet this age demand for the need for maintenance and the necessary injection into these basics of society. It is interesting, too, that this, for example, was pointed out. in the review of the Association of Professional Affairs. It calls attention to the lack of financial policies and vision, and it rightly pointed out from the organization that the budget for building infrastructure is lacking. [[The president calls.]] And that governments conceal their stand on private business in areas that so far have been handled by the government. That includes the maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u21	Madam President. The one here presents the review of the 3rd smaller parts of the General and Education Committee on the Government's budget until the next five years. I'm going to let me read the review mostly and then add my own words as necessary. Then, with the permission of the president, the reading begins: ▪ In terms of my third assessment, the government's financial strategy on the topic centres of the General and Education Committee is severely lacking. A key factor must be that the financing of the media is not listed on the case categories for each topic field but is to be found only one line with total financing to the stage. It will be unlikely that such an arrangement will pass on a constitution that allows for the General Assembly to carry out its role if financial programmes do not contain precise, or detailed, planning for the funding of individual lawsuits or projects. The Parliament agreed to a financial programme without getting this information, and it can be said that the Council will give up its administrative role in dispensing public funds. In this country, where there is excessive power, there is enough of the government's laws against the legislation of this country, including the European Commission. Because ministers are at the same time a member of the council, which is something that Piratar and I have long spoken against. Now we're going to hand over one of our strongest balance tools to the Commission, the government. There must be a serious concern that we do not even get disunited by a group of lawsuits to know about what it is that the council is going to vacate from the Commission this time. But the reading goes on, Madam President. It is obvious that financial programmes do not measure up legal requirements for public finances on transparency when the dissociation of individual causes and projects is lacking, as stated in the financial Council's review: The effectiveness of policy co-ordinated policy development is simple and understandable, it supports transparency and increases the risk of policy development. However, it is equally important that a common thread can be identified through the chapters of each topic's policy. This should, e.g. To meet key challenges, to set sub-targets and standards that contribute to achieving the primary objectives and to the success of projects must be made clear. Something is missing that the cord can be identified. In the last section on financing, the use of the capital within the topic range should also be made clear. The law says that we should be aware of the use of funds and the importance of shopping, but we have little to do. The financing table on each topic field has only one line of total funding for this. In fact, financing is not even rated down to the litigation classes of every subject. Little that's mentioned nothing about buying in the policy of climate change. Therefore, translucency is lacking in this respect. My third section agrees with this financial evaluation. In terms of less than 3 less parts, it is impossible for the council to form an informed position on the government budget without realizing the funding of projects and the least staging of funding on the issues of each topic field. Without minimal efforts, 3rd will not be able to see that the council can perform its administrative financial role, nor will its surveillance role toward the European Commission. Despite this statement by financial advisers, governments have been very effective in reminding us that this information should have nothing to do with financial planning. We're just supposed to wait and hope that we get some kind of information about this when it comes to fall. It even came. at the highest dose of The financial and economic secretary that it would damage the process of giving the council the information that financial advisers feel the next must be in this government financial programme. But at all times, at the council asking for information, we are told that and it would ruin some sort of unexpected case in the government to surprise us all here in the fall of what it's going to be like. That's not something I can call a good government manner, Madam President. But again the reading goes: For example, consider the lack of transparency [in the government budget] as an example the public and legal security sector, under which law enforcement matters, land affairs, prosecutions and judicial hearings are well supported and fully improved. It is impossible for the legislature to recognize the funding of each category, since it is not divided by a group of lawsuits in the program. Yet, there is a wide variety of languages, all of which contain institutions and activities that play an important role in the community. It is evident from the experiences of many of the institutions that fall under the topic range that they do not believe to be able to determine what their business will be for the next five years because financial programs do not contain any information there. Thus government agencies are more guessing than evaluating whether or how much money is gained in various assignments entrusted to them. The lack of fragmentation and, therefore, transparency in financial programmes also seems to motivate some institutions to take sides with other institutions within the same topic area to strengthen their position in the uncertain financial climate. That's how it comes, for example. ... ina review from the Iceland Police Commissioner's Office that the advancement of national law must not be taken into account. Similarly, the client in the capital area is concerned about the need for more money because of the increase in trustees will take advantage of budgetary funds for the administrative sector. - It's obviously completely unacceptable, Madam President. Of course, I'm using a less sensitive term in the minority review of the Board of Education, where I say, by permission of a president: There must be an disturbing trend for uncertainty as a result of the government's financial plans to cause such conflict within the administration. But it must be a concern for all of us if the Tycoon of the capital area is moved to take a position against those seeking refuge because he does not know whether he is getting enough money to do his important work. I feel that we are in a very dangerous place when that is true, especially with these institutions, which have been given to many of them, perhaps 24 hours a day to pass a review of this. It's natural, too, all unpleasant. It must be more time than 24 hours to allow the institutions of the advisory organisations who will be subjected to this financial strategy to enter a review of what they feel about this strategy, as it should be called. But then I turn to the individual issues of financial planning and begin to discuss the courts only: ▪ According to the Council of Justice, more funding will not be met fully by the local Court's demand: A copy of the State Department letter, today. On April 4, 2000, to the World Parliament's Fund for the preparation of budget developers of 2018 -2022, it is stated that there is only part room to meet the local Court's wishes for increased legal rights. It shows that there are 50 million targets. K. in 2018 to the district courts, including to cover the costs of reimbursement, and the rest of judgment documents. In 2018, however, the U.S. District Court's request for increased funds was over 99 million. K. These included fixed pay costs due to an increase in 33 million workers. K. Renewing the computer equipment of all district courts 11 million. K. and technical and housekeeping for court hearings about 22 million. K.◯ See page 18. 116 in a financial program that does not have enough space to finance these programmes. Now it would be good to listen to where financial programmes will be carried out in this review, especially on courts, but financial plans seem to have no room for anything. The budget of financial programmes, it is said, is not sufficient to finance plans to secure better housing, to ensure staff pay, to renew technology and equipment and computer equipment from all the regional courts. However, it has now been stated that it is particularly important for the institution of national rights that computer equipment and other things will be effectively implemented for good cooperation in these courts, i.e. National rights and district courts. This position of government seems to be at its height when it comes to furthering the court, for on the same page, page. 116, also reports that budgetary budgets are not sufficient to finance the various projects and plans needed to meet the needs of solutions during the period. ▪ The following are examples of projects and plans that a financial plan brings about as necessary to strengthen the work of the courts: To implement new lawsuits for the regional level supporting electronic lawsuits and electronic transmissions of data between courts as well as the above-name housemaking, staff computer equipment, software and equipment in courts, but budgetary budgets are not sufficient to finance these plans. It is stated that the main challenges of the Court's administration must set up a new organisation that will be equipped to handle new, extensive tasks. As to their plans, the financial program on page 16 says. 116: It is necessary that the Court's office operates on people with knowledge and education to carry out the legal and responsible duties of the Agency. In advance, it can be considered desirable to be a lawyer, a financial manager, an information and document manager, and a computer scientist. - Then this familiar theme comes back: The range of financial programmes is not sufficient to finance such plans. The establishment of a new court order is discussed in a financial program and explained on page 20. 117 that the number of judges from 52 to 64 and that the financial influence of a new court order is estimated at some 700 million. K. This year an increase of about 35% to the topic field in 2018. Therefore, it is considered to be critical for the three judging points as well as for the prosecution, the police, and the general institutions to put together electronic treatments where documents and other data can be submitted, e.g. audio and photo files, between courts and others in the justice system, including lawyers. A financial plan states that in order to meet that challenge, local courts will need to update their case and set up a sound and photo to play in the National Court and the Supreme Court, despite the fact that it is on page 5. 116 shows that financial programmes are not sufficient to finance these plans. Such conflicting statements are not designed to increase the credibility of the government budget, which seems to give on one page and take on another. It is impossible to see how the future of justice in Iceland will be handled by reading the financial programme. Then, no matter how scratched it is by pointing out that a court plan is to be met in the cooperation of the Ministry and the courts, where goals, standards, and actions related to courts should also be carried out in a financial program. In the preceding five years, it is impossible for the third part to form an informed position on how the place will be a guard of independence and the effectiveness of courts in the country. However, it is most unusual to enumerate a number of supposed essential tasks and challenges in the courts and then to state that there is no room to finance the project or react to the challenges. The future of justice protection in Iceland is therefore a third - less - than - third concern. Let's get back to law enforcement, Madam President: In chapter 9 of public security and justice, it is claimed that there will be an increase in the number of police throughout the period. However, the schedule does not show how many status values there are nor when the increase in the number of status values will be observed. However, the official's statement in the capital area is as follows: ▪ For our next article, see the box "How to Resurrected, " on page 19. 56 reports that the total number of well - linked applications is estimated from 2% in 2018. It also says that the annual maintenance goals are expected. Therefore, given the official official's office in the capital area, it is reasonable to assume that the number of police standings immediately next year would have to be about 90 million. K. Maintenance requirements and this can be expected with a decrease in the number of policemen each year. This is out of harmony with the bill's claim that the funding of a law enforcement program is guaranteed (pages). 65) than in section 9 (pages). 174) referring to a law enforcement program, there is no mention of a decrease in the number of police officers. From the above, you can't see how the financial program allows for the increase in police departments during the period and the increase in the number of cops, as one State Marshal noted, to ensure proper law enforcement and security levels in the country. It is unacceptable that the government's objective for the growth of police officers is not clearly identified in the program and that, instead, there is very conflicting information. For the prosecution, see the financial program on page 5. 178 expected to increase the pressures on the state prosecutor's office during the period of the programme. It'll even come. to increase and increase the weight of the cases due to altered and complex fracture patterns, increased emphasis on international cooperation and the management role of the local prosecutor, including with listening and specific testing procedures. The stated aim of financial programmes is also to increase the crisis and treatment of the prosecution. In the plan, it is concluded that with the development of a new court sentence, the pressures of the state prosecutor's office will be greatly increased. Despite these important challenges and added stress, financial plans do not contain standards or criteria to evaluate how to cope with the proposed changes. Then it is stated that only two prosecutors should be added to the state prosecutor's office during the period despite setting up a new court case that the State Attorney needs to do with other matters. 3 less is considered unacceptable by the fact that the activities of one of Iceland's basic legal institutions are as critical as a financial plan indicates. So we turn around to the top point in the financial program of the following government views, with the permission of a president: ▪ By bringing in a family secret and increasing funding for sociology advice in prisons, I hope justice tolerance will be better adapted to the community after the end of prison imprisonment and thus infringement will be less likely. Although the government hopes to further adjust to the community with increased financial resources to social and psychological advisers in prisons, the increase in the status of psychologists or social counselors is not to be found in the policy of the topic field or as a reference. Only this procedure is specified on page 2. 188 not to promote psychological and therapeutic treatment in prisons, which must be considered as a goal, but not a procedure without further explanation. The aim of the government to promote a successful adjustment to the condition that the community seems exclusively to recommend numbers of return rates in prisons, while the third part has doubts that this standard is a significant one. Please refer to the recurrence rate in prisons today of 24% without a clear warrant for this statement in the main issue of the plan. However, it is shown in footnote that this is the comparator study of the recurrence rate (return rate) in the national language. Part 3 suggests that by referring to a report published in 2010 based on return rates from 2005, it is not possible to make a fast without a careful reference in the budget. If that is the case, however, it is necessary to refer to 12 - year - old statistics to describe the situation's status of a comeback rate in 2016, as it is done in the aims of the category on page 6. 187. Then it is evidence of government ambition that standards of 2022 are simply described as lowering the relapse rate below 24%, which is the situation today. Since the above statements cannot determine how the government intends to reduce the repercussion rate or contribute to a successful adaptation of judgment to the community after the end of sentence, it is difficult to see how the objectives of the law on the ultimate punishment of the material will be met. I'd like to come into this for a minute, Madam President. I think that the policy displayed in this financial program on reform and reformal policy, as is actually called the best case here, is defined by criminal policy, aggression policy, and total lack of ambition. It speaks of a growing number of treatments, a growing number of psychologists, and hopes that somehow it will improve the situation of a prisoner in Iceland while we could be exemplary around the world by how we do our very small penalties and might be guided by the reform policy. It's not here to be found. In this group of subjects, there is no measurable, humanitarian goal to be found in a failed government financial program. I look like I'm burning in time, Mrs. President, so now I'm just talking about personal protection, though I have a few chapters left in my review. I just have to take them in another speech, but in terms of personal protection, which, of course, is really between me and Pirates, it says: A fairly detailed financial program points out that the role of Perone Protection will be significantly altered by the development of a new personal protection program that will be implemented in Europe in May 2018. The rules include the most extensive changes made in this field for 20 years and will affect companies, organisations and individuals. The protocol includes increasing rights of individuals, while a number of new responsibilities and requirements are laid upon those responsible for personal information. The implementation of the Regulation will therefore involve the role of Peritoneal protection to be far more extensive than before, the Agency's directives grow as well as increasing international cooperation, which includes the need for extensive changes in the handling and handling of the Persian protection procedures as the Agency has long been abdicated. In fact, Persian protection has been so poor that the EFTA, ESA, surveillance agency, has reported to the Icelandic government that it does not consider the independence of Peronism to be sufficiently certain, which must be of concern to us all. Despite these huge changes and the need for a huge increase in funds for Personal Protection, the Agency considers at least 100 million. K. lack of knowledge so that it can meet the minimum demands of the new environment in a legal way. It must be regarded as a significant challenge and a dangerous trend in terms of the human rights that are most subject to information technology, which is the privacy of privacy in a digital world, and that is the least 3rd smaller things can but strongly contradict this financial advantage. I must come to the rest of my resignation in the second speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u22	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdotir's spirit for a good speech, and she is particularly impressed with her in the matter of reform in Iceland. It needs a great deal of improvement. But I'd like to come here to review both Iceland's College Board of Education and Iceland's University on the subject. It says that all classes before the last election have promised that they would aim for an average OECD in financial contributions to the university system. When I read the majority opinion of a branch committee, which attracts both high schools and colleges, I learn that the greater portion is made up of comments compatible with these comments. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator would agree with my opinion that the greater part of the WHO's legal committee would have been able to make adjustments according to the review and in accordance with very detailed and good comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u23	Madam President. Yes, it can be said. In fact, this is an example of a lack of consultation and the ability of the greater part to listen to the views of those affected by financial programs, whether in the short or in the long run. Of course, this is a fixed policy, such as so many other factors in this government, to betray repeatedly the promises of increased financial contributions and to speak under a rose that there are conditions to get to college to meet certain demands that have come up with this important level of education. This review from the University Council is worth a lot of attention. Of course, changes should have been made from the greater part if he actually agree with the Council and is serious about listening to the future in the country, which are even serious. College students.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u24	Madam President. Let's get back to law enforcement and policy and what we're gonna do with long-term plans. At the 141th legislature, the Minister of the Ministers submitted a preliminary work report regarding the basic definition of law enforcement in Iceland and the implementation of a legal program for Iceland. She was agreed. But there is no definition of police resources in the financial programme. The police chief, along with others, criticizes this and relates his reviews of April 26, 2000. not to be expected for financial support to increase the number of needed officers. The Marshal said that the police will have trouble meeting the level of service and security in accordance with a legal role. This is a financial agenda for the next five years, we have reports and policies, and there are all kinds of plans behind it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether such work is not right to use when working on a long - term budget for the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u25	Madam President. It is true that the work of the experts and members of the council should be used for financial planning, especially when it comes to matters as important as the law in the country. This may be just another example of the indignity shown to the council by its work in all kinds of matters that are ignored the next issue. It's like there's a plan and then it just disappears into something empty because it doesn't matter anymore and it's not associated with a bigger problem. We know that we need to promote law enforcement considerably more than the financial strategy expected, simply because of the number of people who come here every day and with the growing number of tourists. Of course, we need to be more supportive of law enforcement. Of course, we should use professional data and the hard work that has been done ahead of this schedule to respond in ways that have been made available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u26	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. A member of the Parliament, where it criticized the transparency that was included in this financial program and that the terms "Athlegis " had not received information or dissociation on the goals and main issues under the topic areas. I'd also like to agree with her that this, how upset it is, is a loss of universal surveillance role. But what I'd like to ask her is the payment system - I'm now on the Allegorical Health Committee and cross - political reconciliation was during the last season to reduce the patient's income - if it doesn't agree with me that we need to see a clearer and more practical step on how we need to continue that course, not enough to say we're going to lower it, how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u27	Madam President. Granted, it is always important that the council receive as much information as it can about how the government and the administrative sector intend to carry out its promises, sometimes even in its wake. As for the credit system, I have to admit that I haven't put myself in enough to discuss it in any specific way. It would be wise to discuss them in a very good way. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who has been on our hands with that matter. But this is, of course, as I came in earlier, the theme that there is always no information to us, considering what it is that we are now to be consenting to for this time. We should always wait when we call for more information or we're supposed to hurry things through without getting them. It's getting a little tired. I want to agree with what. Of course, a senator and I should be senators who have a particularly rich obligation to get information and to be informed and to have particularly rich rights to reach out for it as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Government budget also shows that the budget is now 1.5% instead of 1% in its last terms. This means about 103/412 billion less to internal structures. I'm asking if she hasn't heard all the classes talk about the importance of infrastructure in the process of election, and doesn't agree with me that there's no evidence of this great embellishment mentioned, and whether it's not just a certain campaign fraud. For example, many spoke of increasing resources for patients and staff at the Land Hospital, while in the reviews of those involved, there was little or no actual growth in the period. Is this not just an occasion to reject this government budget that we are discussing here and now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u29	Madam President. The simple answer is: Yes. There is good reason for that, for these and so many other reasons. True, it seems that in every topic of matter, it seems to be maintained, as much as it is. Which means that this government's plan does not add to the infrastructure or anywhere in the world to this well-being. And, indeed, it is a total fraud for many if not all of the classes sitting in the highest power. A government that told some of them that they were on the right track and that it was time to invest in interiors where things had been so well handled that it was now time to work on these important structures. Many of our infrastructure have grown weary. There is good reason to place a lot of extra money in them. But obviously that does not exist, and is, in fact, a disgrace. These financial programs should be terminated. She's terrible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Thorhman Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir is very excited to hear the rest of her next talk. There were points that caught my attention in the talk that I would be interested in hearing the senator speak a little more deeply about and what her vision would have been if she had been the author of these chapters. It looks especially toward prisoners. It struck a man a little bit when representatives of the Prison Institute came before the committee what small sums of money seemed to be meant to be in the release of prisoners in a financial program. At the same time, it was stated how few crowns should be able to do much, and it was specifically noted that this amount would not be high for e.g. to support the activities of the Protection Agency, which has been of great importance to help prisoners get back into the community after the loan. The question is about this. [[The president calls.]] In what way would the senator have liked to see or to offer suggestions in other ways in these litigations, prison sentences, but here is the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u31	Madam President. I'm not sure I could write something within the framework of the straitjacket that the government's financial policy puts on this device. But if I were to rule, and if I were to be the Sovereign of my kingdom, I would follow the Norwegian example, how they've established their correction system, if you prefer to call it that way, but to the punishment system, I feel a little out of date talking about it. There are some things that must at least correct the situation quickly. First of all, our new prison in Hólmshei is not exactly a doctor on duty. We need to increase the number of psychologists, sociologists, and other specialists who can help individuals get their lives better affected if they get into the custody system. We also need to invest in something other than a prison. If it's the innovation of the reform system that seems to be, I'm rather a pessimist that we're headed for reform. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u32	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this. I have just heard comments from former prisoners that with the construction of Holms' honors and closed - up prisons, some of them looked more west to the United States after a role model than to our neighboring countries, such as Norway, mentioned here. It was surprising to learn how low this amount would be so that the Residents could receive more prisoners to help individuals finish their sentence. There is also another factor that I found striking that the senator mentioned in a financial program that looks to very old statistics to base a goal analysis or measures on. You would have hoped that there would have been a better way of doing things than here. Just that point as big as it is. A senator mentioned about doctors and that it is more clear how we will promote better mental - health care for prisoners and even small things, as one heard that a prisoner's interest group called for. [[The president calls.]] There would be no books, no entertainment at all, and it would be called for gifts from the common people to correct them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u33	Madam President. Yeah, I'll agree with what. Senator. It is of serious concern how little money is put into this important group of subjects. It is useful for society to take good care of those who have become out - of - doors in the community and end up in this so - called punishment system. The way this land's prisoners are treated in many ways is quite remarkable. I know now, for example. examples that prisoners who enter high-bussing prisons receive the prescribed standard dose for all to counteract the reaction to withdrawal. Even so, these are very strong drugs. They are not meant to be just one dose for everyone, but they need constant attention from the physician. Instead, it continues to be said that prisoners are still receiving a dose of calm when they enter the prison guard system. It's disturbing. There is a part of this problem, there is not enough respect for these people, and therefore perhaps not put enough money to protect their well - being. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very fond of his speech. A lot of interesting things happened there. I'd like to ask you a little more about these numbers. I have to admit that I still scratch my mind on how everything works out in this financial program that we're discussing. As far as I can see, the triage of the courts is nearly 300 million. K. The universal security and justice - space is small, about 700 million. K. During the period of financial planning. When it comes to the rights of individuals, religion, and the administration of the Ministry of Justice, there is a budget of up to 375 million. K. These are so funny numbers that I first thought they were simply a print error. What does that count? A senator that this really means these lawsuits? Clearly, these are not the amount that can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u35	Madam President. I just don't think there's supposed to be a lot of work to do for this kind of money. I think there's a lot of talk in the budget about doing things but much less about budgeting and planning how to get them started. That's what we've called on, and we've got detailed information on how much money to go to for each class so we can figure it out. Not to be this position I have referred to, to institutions in the same language field wheel one to another, not to give too much money to the other person, for they are being given too little, and now they have more important issues than the others. You can't operate in such a way. Of course, these institutions have small frames. As a result, everyone is very uncertain about whether they can live up to the great obligation that is placed upon them by the authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u36	A respectable president. Yeah. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's exactly what I've read out of this and I'm afraid it would be. But then, at the same time, certain financial goals, standards, and standards are set on certain institutions. Let's take weekend service with a helicopter inside the financial legal history, where it is possible within six hours. The 2016 situation is that it will achieve 40% and it will go up to 75% 2022. It is obvious that in order for this to become a reality, the increase in money, not just shopping, but in the business and in order to improve the ministry, is necessary. When it comes to a plane service, we are up to 95%. That's what I'm afraid of. It's too small, but it's too hard to reach.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u37	Madam President. It is either too or short in this schedule when it comes to goals and goals. Of course, when it comes to the D.A., a good deal more money would have to be put in order to man those helicopters. You can't see how to finance it. The government may expect the National Guard to be double on the watch for the rest of this financial programme because they are not ready to put money on training new resources or to provide proper employment conditions. I'm really worried that if the goal is to increase your ability to use this kind of equipment, it's not properly developed how it works, it's even too much for people, and then it may be a boring mistake. You need to see how you work toward these lofty goals. But then there are other goals that seem so small that you do not even understand how they walked into a financial program. So it's a problem with this financial plan, Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u38	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to mention that I'm going to try to review this big issue on top of the main points and if it's time for me to work, I'm going to go into my review as a member of a professional legal committee that we're sending to a financial committee. As will soon be heard in my speech today, there is not very much I can see positive about this financial plan. However, I would like to agree with a greater proportion of budgetary committees, where it will review in any detail about the lack of quantifiable information, the presentation, and other better aspects, and we need to improve in the future. In part, it is, of course, because there has not been enough time for the government, a short time since it began, and because it really is the first time that we put it all together in the elections at the beginning of the term. But there is more. Simply put, for many counselors, there are too many goals, and they are priceless. There are no numbers on how to get them, no plans. It is not possible to discuss policy in litigators or grammatical areas if there is only a fine text in a paper on what to do over the next five years, perhaps specify when the project should begin or should be completed, but then there is not a letter of which money should be applied to these goals. When there are many goals, it is very difficult for us senators to discuss policies with some sense. That's why I agree with most of it, thinking that this needs to be done a lot of nonsense. My review of the financial program, of course, is a major problem. It actually begins at the point that was put in the discussion of financial policy. Here's the most important thing, said the highest. Secretary of the budget, and the financial programme included. The most important issue of the term, the government. When we were discussing financial policy, it was said: Of course, there will be a thorough discussion on the financial agenda. There will be a detailed discussion of policy, policy development, and we are discussing from the autumn on the budget at this time. That was the meaning of the law on public finances. Now we're going to take the discussion on how the government's aims are in financial policy, how it's going to implement them and whether they're wise, whether they're in line with other programs that might take longer, such as a transport strategy, or some other programs that are approved here in the hall. It is by the Lawgiver that this discussion should take place. The government is promoting financial policy. It was approved by an evil cure some time ago, and then there's a financial programme, and it's with the members of the Parliament, both those in more part and less part, who take up a debate about policy. This debate is not now due to lack of detailed information, due to lack of production, but also because this does not speak of policy conferences. When we go through the majority opinion of different committees, there are many criticisms, especially in the majority of the legal committees. In fact, so many things that the European Commission's original document can't resist. It's okay. It's just here that this discussion is going to take place. Now, most of the parts have gone over it and said, "It's not good enough, we need to fix it, and it needs to be this way. They throw away the biggest change, the worthy tax increase in hosting for travel services, and say that comebacks should be taken or at least to look at them. Then come members of the council here and avoid taking a clear view of what they have written in reviews. So, then, how will the council deal with this program, which is to be carried out by the legislature of the legislature to be carried out? Then, with the budget bill, we see the implementation of individual recruitments, the discussion was to be smaller. But I fear that the discussion will be a great deal in the budget in the fall, and it will be exactly as it has been before; of certain things, even small ones, because this discussion is not being conducted here. This point is my most important criticism. It is now that the lawgiver is supposed to say his or her part. But it's on the side of the board. He writes it in reviews, but then he does not approve of it, either by making adjustments, or by means of a public speaker, even though we have called upon the time his representatives arrive at a discourse, which is a change from the financial program in which they refrained from attending a pont. Another thing I repeatedly pointed out in a discussion about financialism is an opportunity to build up, as with the candidates, and, of course, many have taken it to form financial advice. It has said: "It may take more than that, but it is also full of uncontracted incomes, embezzlements, interest payments, sale of property. We do not really know what the end of the year will be. A financial recommendation points out that economicism has cut too tight if something is going to happen and that economic growth will not occur at 5, 6 and 7% in the coming years. We fishermen have said, "This is a perfect opportunity to go into structure without creating an expansion where economic growth is not everywhere 5, 6, 7%. " In many parts of the country, he may be 1, 2, 3%. We have suggested that there may be a reduction in the speed of paying off debt and spending money on it because we know we're getting a lot more money, we're going to make a lot more money to pay off debt. In this regard, the administrative body seems to agree in many of its majority opinions on various committees, but it does not suggest any adjustment. There are too many goals in the recruitment program. We know this on a discussion from other countries where this methodology has been adopted that there has been a change in reducing policy targets from 200, 300 to perhaps 30. Of course, the discussion will be smarter if we have only three, four, but not 10, 20, 30, and even more goals at each Ministry. In addition to this in the financial policy, 1.5 percent of the money should be returned and slid a very narrow sting, not bringing enough money into the health system, just a bit of concrete, not into the university but only concrete, and taking money from the high school system and pointing into the university level with concrete, there to build a house for the increase, and up above it is set up by 2% of the Ministry Department. In discussions with the committees on this increase program, when the Ministers and the Ministry came before the committees, they could not answer how they were going to finance important financial institutions to form in the trade board of the Marine Research Institute. They are to place special emphasis on the Habitat Research Institute. Should the money be taken from the Food Institute, which is also in this same Ministry? At the same time as a financial plan was submitted a report that stated that there was a huge amount of money to support its legal activities in the Food Organization. Thus, it is very difficult for us to say something other than that it is impossible, since we cannot take matters seriously, prudently discussing when both the details and the clear goals of the advisers are missing. That's what I want to criticize, too. I'm a little worried that we're in an experiment, and I have to tell you right now, senators in this room, that even though we've all been on the edge of the matter, I'm afraid we're going downhill. When it comes to saying that the council has been overcrowded, or even not a constitution, we need to ask ourselves, " How can I resist? ' It is very clear in the discussion of the financial program that we are to resist. It is now that we are to consider this discussion on what to do and how to do it. In my opinion, we need to make this message very clear in our community on the policy set out here by the Commission and stamped by the council members. In the past, when we were discussing finance, everyone said that this is the most important issue, the financial plan, the result of financial policy, as important a matter. Today, individual diplomats from that platform are telling me, but I listened to a few of them here yesterday: It's just policy. As a result, they are saying that those whom they issue are not necessarily in accord with their committees. In other words, we don't know what the government's message is about to be sent to the Commission. That's right now what it's supposed to be. Now the lawgiver is to send the Commission a clear message about a five - year financial program according to the public financial concept. There's another way. It must be possible to build up wood in Iceland in the uplift we've had in recent times, and at the same time, it must have been possible to maintain a government operation, thus creating a positive economy, without getting into economic failures because of too much economic growth, too much of the Icelandic crown's funding, too much interest. I'd like to call it the B-way. We'd like to call this the route of the reconstituted economy. We say of the pressures that the government puts on the table that now require enormous support and that it must not be put in any structure at all that it is right, it is wrong, and it will lead to very serious things. We began a discussion earlier today under unprepared inquiry to the minister of success and growth. In my speech on finance policy, I strongly criticized it that it contained virtually nothing of this most serious economic problem that confronts us, the challenges we face, the yoke fruits and the constant strength of the Icelandic crown. As a result, there is very little if anything in the reviews and the greater part was considered to be the focus of these factors. But these are key factors that challenge us to the way we are going to land soft land, how we will maintain interest as long as possible. Of course, for seven years, he has been able to thank us for some extent, to have achieved excellent results during the last term with many things to do, but that is after building up the wood. We must go to it now. The more part of the financial policy is in the committee list, by permission of a president: To avoid further expansion and support for Iceland's financial policies, the State needs to establish its investments in a way that does not risk overexcitement at the same time. There are many ways to do so. Then you can ask: What ways? Hv. Chairman of the budget board and what. Last night, the head of Parliament at the exposé discussed the existence of other routes. I couldn't better see, since they both sign the majority opinion, where the budget is criticized in one of twelve sections that they agree that there are other ways to make money on tourism and that it is possible and that it is necessary to go into the infrastructure. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, was here yesterday and thought that it would be necessary to have a marvelous structure in law enforcement and transportation. I think it's necessary to do what the Generals agree about, to identify where the effect is. Because of the low impact, there will be a need to build up and make use of the opportunity. It's never been better. But then the Generals have to stop talking about the policy. Then they must have the courage to make adjustments. They must then prove that they are meeting to tell the Commission how things should be. The obvious result of their failure to do so and clearly avoid speaking is that the greater part does not agree on anything. The government does not agree on anything. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is left alone to raise the value tax in the hosting of travel services. There is no one else who supports him in it. Residents and Bears of the future, except for members of the Independence Party, which have been more and less opposed from the beginning than the rest of the great crowd. The secretary of finance prescribes the majority opinion of budgetary and economic and business committees that there are other ways to go, and that they should be considered, to form due charges. At a council today, the bill was distributed to legalize the natural fees, where the first carrier is the one standing here, and several other good candidates are on the case. This is a bill for reimbursement, exodus, and a change for a bedside fee. Maybe the rest of the thing just wants to take a look at it. V.E.G. A few days ago, the secretary of finance said that if you put a price on a comet, it would have to be a six-thirty-seven. K. and become a national tax because it would have to be put on the domestic flight as well. I don't know where he's got that information. I don't know if he's been listening to all the experts and stakeholders from the tourism agency who've told him that he's on his way, raising the merit tax for a trip to travel, that's the way to cut the travellers to Iceland, to keep them from going ashore. Because there is less chance of rolling the rise into the prices, however, these locations will have fewer tourists and fewer prices. However, the minister claims that due charge is a national tax of 61⁄2.7. K. K. In our view, we speak of a hundred and fifty. A passenger tax on a flight within the country, not yours. K. They're talking about 1,500 bucks. on a regular flight to Europe and 2500 bucks. ... onthefly. This is similar to the methodology used by humans in Germany, Britain, and Norway, as well as in other countries. This is real. This is allowed within the European Economic Area, the highest. President. This can be done. This is what other nations do. Is this amount worth enough to return 4 billion? In fact, it was meant that the increase in the value tax should be done after 2018. In 2018, the figure was to be 10 billion. If more of the legal committee has already made that idea, is that not the last 10 billion dollars in income in 2018? Is this plan for the next five years just a bunch of bullshit, because right next year there's 10 billion dollars lacking in income? Or is it easy for you to find that there are about 10 billion swings? I insist that by laying on a natural fee that we can so call, because it will lead to everyone wanting to pay it, achieving this goal. Of course, we Icelanders have to pay the price as well. Do we not want to protect our nature as well? I suggest a moderate currency, which could be added either as a cost or as a leaving tax, but as a passenger tax, an increase in the host's cost, where local communities are authorized to cover up to 5%, and possibly after half of their fees, to have money to go to the necessary infrastructure and travel sites. I assure you, it is very easy to get these 4 billion in this way. Now I see and hear that the session is over, and right after the end of this talk, I wish to be put back on the rosary, since I was able to cut only one subject field of professional roads, which is the travel service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Jóhannsson Sigurður his speech. I thought it was pretty well considered where the government's financial plan is, how badly it is because the original document was not worked well enough, which, of course, makes it difficult for us members of Congress to do something else but just reject it and even start over again. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he spoke a good deal of the 2% requirement and the effect of not being able to build up wood, whether he agrees with me, and can agree with me that this is a really bad news, especially for the earnings of society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why this five - year vision of the future is frightening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u40	A respectable president. What I now used perhaps the largest part of my speech was just saying about the importance of financial planning being a policy document and about these policies on the lawgiver right now. I think the conclusion is that the majority of them are somewhat critical of it, but they suggest that it be accepted as unchanged and sent to the Commission for further implementation. This document does not put any special emphasis on strengthening the interests of the worst. By keeping everything in place except health care and nursing care, there is certainly a fixed group that has often, at least some of them, less income. Of course, I'm glad it's only 0.5% there, but everybody else is 2%. There are not ambitious plans to raise the pensions of older citizens, much less desperate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I think it's very important that we draw it up in the discussion what this monopolitan group really means to the people in the community. It's true, however, that the maintenance mask is smaller, but it's better when it comes to health and welfare. However, it is being increased when it comes to education. I'm concerned about the future situation in that regard, for in my mind, education is an investment for the future, just as important as paying off debts. It has nothing to do with it. In its review, a senator may be more involved in research, innovation, and knowledge, which, of course, is related to education. I'd like to pray. A senator would discuss the details of what he reveals in his review and that it certainly did not receive financial support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u42	A respectable president. Of course, at least in my opinion, this 2% of straddlers will make it the main thing that the Ministers and the Ministry will do with great difficulty meeting their financial goals and we have not received any complete information about how to proceed. It is true that a lack of ambition is involved in academic matters. One notices the change in the budget since last year in regard to high school, not knowing whether it will be explained to them because we graduates have put more emphasis on academic matters, although they were not in our study, that we now see taking money out of high school because of shorting study to something else. We also see that the prime minister is no longer in charge of the Scientific and Technical Council. I don't know if it means much, but it's the image of whether one puts a lot of emphasis on something or not. It seems to me that this government is going to go the second option, not take an oath.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u43	Mr. President. I want to thank you. The senator is very much fond of this fine speech. I'll take it to the top. The minister of finance has been very busy sitting here listening to a discussion in general, but it disturbed me that there was no qualification. A member of the Theocratic Ministry School under a talk. Senator. It has to do with it as a whale. A candidate in his speech came to see that these policies are still five years old. Here the legislature authority is to have a conversation about how we are going to plan these matters over a longer period of time. Hv. However, a senator mentioned that he did not expect it, in view of the fact that the administrative point did not take much part in the discussion, which clearly shows that there was no man here to give a talk. A senator, except members of a minor body. Then this will likely not have a major impact on our discussion of budgeting in the fall. I ask you, all this new budget on government finance - aren't we just messing up with these laws, in the way we're going to take this discussion about our policy, in the light of what I'm saying here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u44	A respectable president. I can't deny that I missed Congress. But I'm about to commend the highest. A minister who has spent more and less time in the discussion. He approached me and said he had to run, but now he's back. I would have liked to have more people here, since, of course, I was more likely to speak to them than to any members of the council. During the financial conference, I was concerned, since the government didn't speak at all in the conference, but I criticized that policy well in the media. But then I said: "Nonetheless, the majority contributes to the continuity of policy, so I now only witness to the end. So I understood that in human language they would not accept the discussion because they hoped that their ideas and expectations of increased funds would be somewhere in the budget. Now they don't see it either. Then they give up, write in reviews, and feel that this is no longer working because they know that when the budget arrives in the fall, it will be based on this financial program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure they're willing to accept it any more than they seem to be willing to support the financial plans of their own government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u45	Mr. President. Yeah, where the hell else was that? The Gaming Committee? At least he's not here. At least he's not participating in discussions. He didn't answer my questions during last night's discussions and doesn't answer my question. Senator, chairman of the Panorama Party. This is now the discussion we have here on government policy until the next five years. It may only be hoped that the more part will not be involved, because they are striving to talk about it, that this is just a plan, and all the decisions in the budget will be made in the autumn. Then you wonder, " What was the purpose of this work? ' What, then, was the purpose of developing a financial plan if it really is not? That is why I ask in my first answer: So why don't we have something to disagree with how these laws are introduced? These committees have worked hard to discuss these matters. There is a special opinion in the reviews of all committees, since members of the committee have not met in the committees on the emphasis to be set out. [[The president calls.]] This is where we have an obligation to show the big lines. It is very difficult when the majority stay away from the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u46	Mr. President. I think we're in a very sensitive place. On the one hand, it is said that there is a need to see if the induction will last for a constitution, i.e. whether or not the authority possessed by the Council has been abolished. The idea of this law was that the removal of financial policy would be a policy-makers' debate over financial programs, that would be the main debate. There they would communicate, and eventually the lawgiver would speak for himself, i.e. where he wants to go. We now see the opinions and reviews of more parts from different committees, where they criticize more and less what came from the government and do not seem willing to support it, yet they suggest that it be accepted as unchanged. I'm worried that this is going to be a failure and that the debate on budgets will be exactly like the one we've heard in recent years, that it'll be the same as any team, both large and small. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry because we were here to take up the policy discussion. [[The president calls.]] This will only be done if both members of the Parliament are present during that discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u47	A respectable president. The process of financial planning was to reduce the work around budgets, to the point that much of the discussion was over. But with the plan and the lack of data and information that we have, the discussion of budgeting will be just the exact way it was, because it finally gives us the information. But like a dog. A senator mentions nothing, in fact, because they do not have the information. This is a little interesting. We, however, need to take this strategy seriously, this is a serious matter. The budget must also be taken seriously. We're doing our work here as maintenance of the project, but they're obviously not serious about this because there's no information that they can tell us what this is all about. Is it not, then, the only solution to dismiss or reject this piece of paper and to get a new plan at summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u48	Mr. President. Yes, I fear that the discussion of budgeting will be just as it has been and that we have failed because we cannot succeed in this discussion, which was the idea of the introduction of these laws. That's for a number of reasons, so I can now see fair to the government categories, but that's what it is. too many goals. You have seen that in other countries where this has been started, they are dwindling in a few years. When there are too many goals, hundreds of them even, there will be no pointed or grammatically debate about individual objects, since everything can be spoken of between heaven and earth. What then lacks, and is exactly right by what's happened. A senator, is that we need all the details, as we pointed out in the commission when ministers and departments showed up here and in the discussion. All we need to have in order to be able to discuss; is this direction being headed, is the main thing of this minister and this Ministry to place money in this suit, in this institution, in this project, or does he have no money? [[The president calls.]] We simply do not know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u49	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator and I would like to thank him for his speech earlier, just as it was of great interest. This document is exactly the policy. We need to take it a little bit seriously. If the policy is not submitted in this program, we're making an empty check, if we agree with it, the board can simply do whatever it wants because it's not in the plan. Actually, she should be able to apply what she says. She pursues goals, sets a course, and follows them. If she completely fails to have policy targets, some policies e.g. 2,000 Boy Scouts or something like that, it's not a policy, so the board can do anything. That's a big problem we have in our surveillance role. Then we might ask: Is this really going on? They can only say yes or no, and that's just the right answer. I don't see any other possibility than simply returning it. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of indications. You can do much better than that. It takes like a dog. Minister's pointing out, sorry about your ex. A senator points out, it doesn't have to be that complicated, and it has a lot of goals and policies to cooperate with. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u50	A respectable president. At any rate, I had understood the introduction of the law on government finance, so it was certainly taking that power, or what people have experienced as a financial committee, to be assigning small amounts of money to the others and to these places from a financial committee, from the council, and to put their power in this time period, i.e. When we're discussing policy. Of course, this will not be the case when the debate is not here between the senators and the smaller parts, and when it becomes evident that more people in all committees think and defame that they criticize the paper but then struggle to stand by themselves as members of the council and say to the court: We need to change this. Obviously, they are afraid that the government will fail because they do not get together. [[The president calls.]] It's pretty obvious. [[The president calls.]] That's the best. Of course, a financial minister should be alone after raising the value of extra tax during a travel stay, the finest example of this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u51	A respectable president. I have to thank you very much. A senator for a very good speech earlier. What I specifically cut in a senator's speech was right; where is the lawgiver? Where are we setting our mark on this document here? These over 300 pages. and I don't know how many pages have been written here in reviews, 21 pp. in a panel of members from the greater part, yet this will look exactly the same as when it came from the Ministry. I'd like to hear from what. A senator how he sees that the end of the council is really going to be on this list when it has been handled through the council? Whether it is normal that this schedule will not exactly be modified, as appears to be, if the majority of the changes depend on the share.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u52	Mr. President. It sums up, the idea was that the legislator made that decision. There's nothing wrong with the other part making that decision, and we in the smaller part can't go on with it. All 63 of us may not necessarily agree on the changes made. Of course, if it did, it would be great. In some cases it would be possible, and most of the things we actually make up for more and less in the way out, but not so key. What is lacking here for the legislator to take over is that the majority of the councils who criticize it everywhere, also in the opinion they send off to the budget committee and to the greater part of a legal committee that rejects the highest legal means. The secretary of finance on the increase of cost taxes, withdraws a variety of other things, and points out that the law needs to be corrected and added, but then he says: Anyway, we're going to accept the paper as unchanged. It is then the message that the council is not in order to make its decision. Rather, it has been arranged, and the senators have the courage to dance with fear of the loss of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u53	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator completely hit the head with these words that the government is afraid that the government will simply fail with this financial strategy, for it is very poor. I find it very strange that the majority of the items cannot be made to make one single adjustment, despite 21 pp. Consider this 359 page. A piece of paper. When we were here on an older budget, which was no less extensive than the current Parliamentary arrangement for financial planning, there were more dozens of changes. There were changes made from the greater part because it is normal for a case that is as much and as important as a financial or financial program, or if it does, to be changed in the case of the council. That's what I'm talking about. The senator won't agree with me that it's highly unusual how things are being handled?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u54	A respectable president. With the permission of the president, I'm going to read two sentences in a committee study of a more part of the legal committee, section 7: In the middle of the year, the value tax is not desirable, and in preparation for the next budget bill, a search will need to be made to reevaluate that plan. In other words, drop the idea. Unit 8. ▪ The more part considers the details of the pros and cons of laying expenses on passengers in the country. Here's a bill for a natural fee, which, in fact, corresponds to the highest criticism. The minister of finance had these ideas in Castlight. It doesn't have to be perfect. The pros and cons need to be considered. I need to go over the amount. Here's a suggestion, it's even been replaced by a bill, which is entirely consistent with the ideas of the greater part. It would have been natural to make a change of motion, a change of course. But it's here that we're talking about policy, not necessarily accurate amounts, but policy. [[The president calls.]] It can be done. There is a bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u55	Mr. President. The fact that this discussion is a minor part of the administrative body must be concerned by the Senate's administration. As I said before in answer, it is noteworthy that no member of the board of directors saw the reason to listen to the debate of the Prosecutor. I'm not criticizing the highest. Minister who's been here almost all the time, but where's more of the legal committee? We've seen, I think, five o'clock. The members of the government here give talks and two more talks that have made their way up here. We are here discussing the most important budget of the government, a five-year plan on how we're going to build up our community, how to distribute money, how to collect income. Could it be that much of it is embarrassing that he is not going to take this document seriously, that he is just going to get through this discussion with few words and make new decisions in the fall because they have not yet landed? Mr. President. Is the head of the council satisfied with this discussion on this most important issue of government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u56	V.E.G. President. Yes, I cannot help but agree with the criticisms that have occurred. The members of the greater part are not at the council Hall listening to what we here, which suggests what can be done better with a national financial programme, let's talk about it. How should we correct what we're talking about here if we don't listen to us? Got it. The members of the greater part of this document don't matter? It seems that in view of their participation in these discussions. Or are they just afraid that the throne government that was arranged for ministers and not on top of the issues would fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u57	A respectable president. I want to come up here and thank you very much. Secretary of finance for sitting here. It would be wish for the chairman of a judicial committee to be seen here in the Senate Hall and be with us through the discussion, with a minimum of the rest of the council members serving on a financial committee. When the proposal was made, an agreement was made on the treatment of the matter. The ministers came here and answered questions about the available suggestions. I am shocked that financial ministers are now left alone with the financial program, and other ministers are not to be seen in this discussion. [[Up front.]] I know that a large portion of the document was processed in individual plots, the focus on goals and measures, and it would be normal to begin with. Ministers would come here and respond to the very important comments presented in the Committee to cover more of the legal committee. [[The president calls.]] I would like the president to call for ministers to be here for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u58	Mr. President. I agree with what. The last speaker, I think it's very important. I see that one minister has registered to participate here and is on the rosary, the Supreme Minister. Department of Social Affairs, Minister of Equal Opportunities, which is a good thing. I see a chance to ask him questions that come to his side of the story. I think it's very important that we bring in ministers and participate. I'm going to thank the highest. Ministers for being here, and I know that the chairman of the budget board has been here more or less, either in the hall or at the side hall, paying attention, while others have less been seen here and have not participated in any comment or attempt to have a conversation with us. And we're always complaining about the same thing. Here, however, we are talking about a large piece of paper. This isn't just a matter. This is a matter that marks a course to the next five years or based on the financial policy adopted by these same people. This is an important suggestion for change. They are not implemented, nor are they told why you can take them. [[The president calls.]] It's just said that there's a lot of compromise, but it hasn't shown why.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u59	A respectable president. I agree with what other members of Congress have said here, and it's hard to believe that there's no senator in the hall outside the highest level. Minister. I'm worried that there's nothing good about a government budget when all political ownership of policy is missing. What's going to happen is that there will be a change so that there will be no survivors of the 5-year budget. The fact that diplomats are so little active in the discussions will lead to this. I, like others, call for more active participation in this matter so that this document can serve its purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u60	A respectable president. We're going to pick 'em up. senators enter the hall and side hall. It's a pity that we have to talk about the President's conference board to pave up members of Congress, who have signed the majority opinion and majority of the reports in the most popular assembly case we're discussing today that are absent during our discussion, into the conference room to make them sit here. Of course, we're supposed to have a conversation here and exchange opinions. Hv. The members of the greater part must be men in order to represent and speak to their opinions. That's why we're here, talking to different viewpoints, and handling them with reason. It is not possible if the interviewer is not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u61	A respectable president. Because information is missing because the pay period was so short, we are discovering a new view of the subject in each speech. Every time a new senator shows his vision of the financial agenda, we see new information better than the eye. The committees took the matter to heart and reviewed important aspects of the plan. We need to hear from all those involved, government, and government, as well as the stewards mentioned by each of us have lawsuits and language areas. The discussion will be more uniform if it is just the government room that constantly reveals a new view of the situation from what the government works on. When the government is added, which has a different view of the matter, we become more enlightened. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is important that members of the board participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u62	A respectable president. Yeah, I don't really stop wondering what I'm looking at. Government officials see their work. They seem to think that there are some documents that will then need to take on some process of doing so that is, of course, ours. Senators of the Government, let's talk a little about it, they can be somewhere else, you can have a slight opinion of something, not make any changes. Plus, the ministry paper is stamped and turned into law. This is a different description than I received in the Senate work. We are here to discuss a case that has been referred to as the most important bill of this government, this terms. Have a what? Does the government not take any interest in what this government is going to do? Are they interested in politics?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u63	A respectable president. It may be normal for us who have doubts about this program to share it more with us than the others do. However, when you read the opinion of a major body of members of each panel, it becomes apparent that in a material sense the government really agrees with us in the lesser part. The only thing that conflicts is that we plan a way of adapting the financial issues by improving the expenses they say are missing, but we do not make any changes in order to achieve them. I do not look forward to standing here in the fall, when the proconsuls have found their point, that they have wrapped themselves in a straitjacket of capital and cannot stand the big words of the committee probing because they make no changes. Well, there's a lot of discipline going into the weather, and now it's been said that it's public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u64	Mr. President. If a financial program is to live up to its name and be the most important government document at any time, the Hall of Congress should be fully organized. This matter has been discussed in all committees of the council. There should be more than just a share of the legal committee here, but people from all committees. This document is being reimbursed completely by non-improvement. I don't feel that I have to thank anyone or anybody for taking this conversation, that's just so self-centered. [[The point is, it's true.]] [[Take it up: right.]] Men are at their job at the superfluous, like senators are, and everyone knows. If this is what it's gonna be, it's gonna be the highest. The secretary of finance is about to herd his cats into houses, as has been said, a cat's apocalypse of ancient times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u65	A respectable president. I see in the eyes of a president that he shares our concern that there are no senators here. He's worried. I have no doubt that any of the council members heard my speech as well as the rest of the council members, wherever they may be. Maybe they're in the office writing adjustments. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] But it is essential that we get a discussion in this discussion about the highest-reaching government document. Secretary of finance, under the name and under all counts, is involved in this. This is especially important, since they think more and less of our criticism but still intend to accept the paper as unchanged and to send the Commission out of solution to the budget. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried that the discussion of budgeting will be a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u66	A respectable president. I have to agree with someone else. Councilmen who have come up here to complain about the presence of the administrative body in this room. For a period of time e.g. There were three members of the Group of Congress, and more of them were members of the United States Parliament than from the Continent. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's what counts as achievement. At one time, the only members of the administrative body were the highest. The minister of finance, who has been subject to all of this more and less, and to a respectable president, who is not here in his office as a senator but in his office as a dignified president. I am glad to hear and to see laughter from the side hall, though there are some independent people on the stage, and also one sharp one. Senator from Upstate. [[The president calls.]] But, more dignified President, don't let this happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to read a song that's very relevant and published on a Facebook page for the financial and economic minister this week. It's as follows, with president's permission: And I'm never alone. I'm never alone. I'm never alone. Because it follows me a wolf wherever I go. And the beast is cunning, and looketh for me. And from time to time, I get a good feeling. And if I want to show you where the power is I'll get it back. Ten times is the price. And I'm never alone. No, I never walk alone. I'm never alone. Because it follows me a wolf wherever I go. This is from Sváfnir Sigurðarson. - But I'm asking, "Who's all alone?"
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u68	President. Long ago I read a piece of branches, a note of a dead man, who had not bound his bed with the knots of his companions. As an outsider, he had few neighbors and friends, and at the time of the funeral, the church was few. The person holding the stylistic weapon this time had a reputation that it had not done much to make the sound sound best in empty churches. I'm not saying the sound of an empty Senate hall is the best. I think there'd be a hell of a lot better sounding here if there was a crowded class, including the executives. I wish they'd come here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u69	Mr. President. I have to admit, I don't understand the point. Disfellowshipping the respect the senators are given for the council, what about treating themselves with dignity, and doing the work they have chosen to do? They do not show up here, although they have produced 140 pages of the committee's opinion. It's a great job, an amazing result. That's how we're supposed to work every case, get in the basement, make sure we're able to tell everything we've done. In fact, I'm not sure that all the defects were listed in these opinions, but how would it be if men came here and explained their case after they wrote such fine data? That would be wishful. Right now, we're mostly minor senators trying to have a reasonable conversation, but the conversation is nothing because the greater part doesn't show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u70	Mr. President. Listening is a fine price. I don't intend to drag it from the officials who have been here that they didn't listen. But it was said of some other person that he would love to sit outside and eat cakes. It's a question of whether the executives have protected the kitchen chairs more than the Senate seats. Apparently. It doesn't just mean sitting in the side room or out front, you have to sit in the Senate hall and join in the discussions. That's what it's all about, communication. I think it's minimal that when the presidents of the anti-continental parties speak, the money committees are from the greater part of the hall and, of course, some more. It is not appropriate that when the presidents speak, only the highest number is in the hall. Minister and he was even a minister. I've told you he couldn't sit here except for what he got into the blueest when the head of the Anarchy talked. Mr. President. This was a request for ministers to be called, and I ask, Has the President sent out a message? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u71	A respectable president. In my introduction to the commission, I mentioned that we received 41 on the budget. I wanted to correct it in 31 because I thought that I was 31 very serious points from a financial body. If that is so, then it is true. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé says that we're just a time of time, and the more part allows us to talk until we're finished and then attend the Senate Hall to press a button and keep stamping it, we're a very sad label center because the one who got the plunger was the one who got less votes. The plunger's in my hand. It's interesting that we are in a position to be able to make the use of my own rules by the time the clock is set. I believe we have to do a great job in our campaign songs and make sure that the less part of our votes cannot lead to majority power. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u72	A respectable president. I think there's every reason to call for more council members to the hall. However, meetings by members of the administrations are now under way. They're not in the Senate Hall, but they're somewhere. They must be meeting because there is a state of chaos. The situation is that the Independence Party doesn't want a merit tax in travel service, does not want the increase. That's a problem. Secretary of finance wants radical action and currency, and it seems to be all alone in the world about it. The health - care system is well - versed, and health ministers are in foreign lands during these discussions. High school is in historical hunger. There's no idea what you're talking about. People can think of nothing more than selling airports. The government is in great trouble, and now it comes into her mind to support the fact that there is nothing really going on. The major conflicts will be delayed only in the longest possible way until the contributions of a budget bill because the conflict is very clear. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u73	A respectable president. Sometimes I wonder when I read the majority of the inscriptions who are being addressed. The greater part encourages consideration for the increase in budgets, as the rest of us realize the need for this, but we are thinking of these increased funds. We have the resources. If he does not offer suggestions on how to deal with such needs, what is the greater part to talk to? I think he's talking to himself, not to change anything, but to have this opinion of home bridge when the starving law of money appears in the fall. Then they can say: " Look at me, here I was, talking about need, but it wasn't just listening to me. I encouraged you to think about it, but it just wasn't. Now I have to continue to agree on the five - year - old hunger of high school, the five - year - old health system, and the three new helicopters for the Landland Guard to hold on an airport because there aren't enough people to run it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u74	V.E.G. President. However, this would not be the right thing to say. paritaprevir The Savvarsdóttirs of Svavarsdóttir before what? The members of the greater part are out to meet all houses and try to get to the bottom of what the more important things are about. On the cover of the Commission's opinion of more part of the budget board, the President's permission stands: ▪ This financial program indicates that new things have not had enough time to prepare and implement financial programs for the next year. It's very clear when you start thinking that these more things don't seem to know what it is, and while we're standing here in the smaller part that seems to have some vision of where we want to go with society. If this conversation cannot take place between all of us, I would like to suggest that all of us, who hold up the discussion and seem to know where we just want to go, finish it, and make a better plan. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u75	A respectable president. It's so fun to participate in what's going on in the conference hall, especially in conference discussions. I'm just gonna make a few comments on a reasonable conversation. That's a very thoughtful assessment, in my opinion. I've been sitting in the President's chair for a few hours, and I've seen men competing for the same matter, asking for the commission that appeared two years ago. As long as I don't sit here and listen to it, I run around trying to negotiate about the MPA, do some child protection programs, and other things that we're also working on in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u76	Mr. President. The presence of a ruler, with a respectable exception at the highest level. Secretary of finance, at this discussion, it is desirable. It is a natural and simply a matter of contingency, of general participation in the General meetings. I say for myself that I would be very interested in hearing more from the management team because of the rhythms the management team has chosen to speak up this program, how much money there is in it, and how good it all will be in the next year and years. In my opinion it isn't that, and then in the fall of this process, when a number of institutions receive less funding for business management in 2018 than 2017 because of the 2% maintenance demand for the operation. But this approach has been chosen. A general body is much more than a exchange of words between government and government. The General is a national and political platform. Meetings are carried out in the hearing. When a meeting is broadcast and broadcast, it is possible to access the Internet. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if directors choose not to participate in the discussion and are not here, we will not be affected. We continue to have intelligent and upbuilding discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u77	A respectable president. I must say, I was a little surprised at what I said. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty. All I could hear was what I heard. A senator would be to inform her that she had sat here in the chair listening to talks she didn't seem to give much in charge. a position of authority in these matters. I think it's a strange thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u78	Doesn't she mean the bosses?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u79	Well, the government of opposers, I'm sorry, we haven't seen a member of the board since when the choice was young and cute. It's what it is. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty that she's the only one who's got something to do around here? Should we consider some of the times we have been living in a Senate Hall or running to other meetings? That's not what it's about. It's about doing what we're chained to do. Hv. A senator can talk as if a good conversation is one thing and that there was no good conversation here. I know, though, that a conversation doesn't take place when one of the party doesn't show up. [[The president calls.]] It's very simple. If you do not have the strength to attend the conversation, do not complain that the conversation is not beneficial. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u80	A respectable president. I'll bet you I stopped for a talk. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, though it was a pleasure to see a commander at last in the speaker's office. After a moment of thought, I thought that this would likely reflect some of the pressures presented in a speech given by the senator, to whom we are pointing. The Senator is trying to find some solution to what we have already noted, of course, that there is no funding to finance the MPA budget. Where's the money for that? This is the only pay force I've seen in history that's supposed to decrease. It is expected to be paid less after five years for NAPA services than today. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Mr. Ottar's son Proppé, let's have the conversation in the Hall of Congress, also to help the executives work with the committees themselves. [[The president calls.]] It may come with experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u81	Mr. President. It is an extraordinary lack of respect for the debate at a council in such a way that people can't see their duty and take up the matter. They're going to pay for this document completely. There's a lot of fuss in the management department, and they don't burn for taking the argument into the chair of the Generals. They don't burn for this case any more, but I don't know what. Of course, there should be objections and talk for this financial program if there was a sign on it, but humans do not. It happened earlier, but I ask, aren't these people in politics, these people? I don't think there's anything in politics. It's just a matter of power, and once they're in the hands of some people, they have nothing to do with the democratic obligation to discuss such important matters that will affect all classes to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u82	Mr. President. All of us at the council need to attend various meetings in town, elsewhere at the Assembly Hall, or in nearby homes. I myself was working on a committee party off the page, but of course you continue to follow up on the discussion. Having to work is not a good excuse for not being able to work. It will never be. Perhaps it is that when you look over these 140 pages of the committee and reviews, it is true that there is just not much support for this financial plan. This seems to be the case, for example, that the head of the body does not rely on simply saying no, as they should do, to the amateur ones and to those pathetic intentions. But they also have the courage to speak because their speech is simply a failure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u83	Mr. President. We are here on the second day to discuss the government's five-year financial program. This discussion has been very good to my knowledge. I think that's why. Congress officials are very well prepared for it because all committees had envelopes for each committee. That's a lot of knowledge. There is knowledge and skill in the matter of opinion. The only thing missing is the conversation with the executives who are the reason. Parliaments who support the government and intend to accept the case but give the commission that says they really don't agree with it. However, they do not make adjustments. We need to get out what's going on in this government, Mr. President. Maybe that's enough? [[The president calls.]] Shall we stop this game?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u84	A respectable president. This is one of the biggest political issues of the government we are dealing with and is a guide into the politics that will take over the years. I'll exchange my speech in three. First of all, I'm going to discuss the national financial programme in general, starting with such issues as the lack of transparency and scoring, and all the conflicting messages in the program. Second, I will discuss the proposed changes in the value tax and how the whole business is tore up in the five-year budget, and third, I intend to deal with the tremendous lack of ambition that makes donations to the university level. There is a severe lack of transparency to the management practice that focuses on the lack of baseline laws in the design of the programme. It is not clear as the financial board considers whether financial policy is being followed up in the budget or whether the financial programme follows financial policy. Of course, it is quite remarkable that this is not as clear as it is when we are discussing such a big matter because the main purpose of going to a five-year financial programme and policy is, of course, that there is no better leadership than ever. The ideas behind the financial program are beginning to indicate that the budgets set over 34 topic ranges to the next five years, followed by a financial bill for each year. All policies are going to be successful in accepting a framework for each case party. However, it is unclear, as noted in nearly all members of the body who have taken note of what each unity will do to the frame. It is therefore very difficult for the legislature to recognize the contributions made to individual institutions. We've been contacted by a U.S. Marshal. He's been tore up some serious doubts about this kind of work, i.e. whether this power has been taken from the Lawgiver. This is something that needs to be examined. I think, and I'm pretty sure that it's the highest. Financial and economic ministers are also interested in getting a better understanding of this. Regarding another case mentioned by the financial board, I believe it is very urgent to cross, turn to so - called policy simulations, and projections. Clearly, there must be a better interaction between predictions and policy. Economic and economic developments will not be able to determine the impact of new economic policies on economic development and economic forecasts. Sports and projections must be carried out in order to determine the progress of economic policy. There is no such work now in the management system, and it is desirable for me to believe that the Ministry of Economics will go to the project to increase the transparency and leadership of policy makers. Thus the Ministry receives increased political responsibility for key decisions and the economic significance of them. In fact, the financial and economic services, the economic office, do not have the tools and tools to examine the economic effects e.g. changes in the value tax have. This is done in some way. But in order for us to understand the national benefits of such changes, the Ministry has to be much better prepared for this sort of analysis. I'm convinced that I'm at the highest. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy agrees. Another thing I'd like to say is a conflicting message that has to do with the government's holding-up levels. According to the State budget, maintenance measures are increasing, and financial councils suggest that they are not adjusted for the economy, as this is suggested. It would be more desirable to aim at a source to evaluate the maintenance levels as Iceland's Secret Bank has pointed out. It is most reprehensible in my opinion that the management of money and financial matters does not agree in evaluating the maintenance phase. I'm afraid to claim that there are very few countries in other parts of the world that don't agree on how to evaluate the level of maintenance. This really is something quite different. Once again, it shows that the establishment of a national budget is unclear and transparent when such basic issues are not clear. I'd like to quote only the review of the financial council, by permission of a president: In this context, a standard standard of economic demand is used, and the Sensitive Bank explains how the provision of improved capital equations for initial recovery during the period would have to be considered for demand effect. A similar viewpoint is shown in the review of the Federal Bank on Economic Policy in 2017/2022. At the same time, the budget is largely covered on recovery, and the above variables are overlooked in an analysis of the maintenance phase and no attempt to fluctuation correction. It is also shocking to note that different analysts, referred to the financial Council, use different standards of change in the maintenance phase. Therefore, the conversation between parties involved in the molding of financial and financial policy needs to be reinforced. Thus, the flow of knowledge does not have to be between parties who perform analyses, scenarios, and policy-making in public finance and those who perform basic forecasts. In addition, there is also a need for active territory in which financial and financial advisers are employed. This applies not only to the guardians of both subjects but especially to the analysts themselves in such a way that different viewpoints are regularly attended. A financial body understands that in view of the smallness, it must be tailored for growth in forecasting and analysis, but it is unacceptable that there is no guarantee of a powerful flow of knowledge and support of the infrastructure. You might seek to activate the university and educational community and other persons in this subject. With transparent models, different scenarios, policies, uncertainty analysis, and open discussion, financial advice suggests that stability, transparency, sustainability, stability, and safety in public finances can be promoted. In the context of this, the share of the rural society will also not be overlooked. Their involvement in public finance is increasing, and it must be ensured that their influence is being taken into account in this context so that public financial demand management becomes more active. Also, financial advisers want to point out that there is a degree of self - worth in modern models and forecasts in Iceland. A respectable president. We obtained a financial agency at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, and they showed us what the Organization's National Predictions look like and the Secret Bank looks like. It's quite a small difference, it's about a zero point of a percent between years, but when you're reevaluating national interests, then maybe two or three percent. Of course, only a better criticism or perhaps a different type of thinking is needed in order to evaluate the situation. A respectable president. Next, I'd like to review the changes planned for the merit tax. The financial programme presents changes in the valuable tax system where host services and other tourism-related activities move from lower level to generally level, i.e. from 11% to 24% on July 1, 2018. After these changes, it can be claimed that European tourism has one of the highest taxes compared to the competitive countries. Clearly, this will have an effect on the article, and especially in view of the fact that during the past few months, the amount of money has been greatly strengthened. If nothing has to be done, it will continue to be strengthened because this is the case with May and the great friend of travel, and I'm sorry for the fact that I'm hanging out, a respectable president, is still left. According to the World Bank Fund of February 28, 2017, the importance of the competitiveness of the environment of tourism is highlighted and the sector itself is sustainable. Denmark's management countries do not have good experience in raising the value tax for tourism or that there was a much greater increase than there were in other countries. It was interesting to consider what happened in Denmark, that it did not occur until a few years later. We could even look at it here in Iceland as well, and we certainly don't want to see it, more dignified President, that it's going to happen when it even goes down in the economy. I encourage it to the highest. The secretary of the budget to look at these changes further. A respectable president. There has been a meeting at the Economic and Business Committee that no formal cooperation or consultation has been observed with the tourism organisation. In addition, representatives from the market offices of the country made a significant comment on this matter, the lack of consultation and cooperation, and the need to improve this conversation between the government and the article. I am deeply concerned with such major changes that governments are not more open to review and identify how this will affect not just the article but the entire national structure. Another factor I'd like to mention, a respectable president, is that the increase is expected to be on July 1, 2018. Drivers have suggested that it is much better to perform such elevations at the beginning of each year. I agree with this, and it also shows in the opinion of more of the legal committee, by permission of a president, which says: In the middle of the year, the value tax is not desirable, and in preparation for the next budget bill, a search must be made to reevaluate that plan. The comments were made in a number of comments on the subject, and the majority of them understand it. A respectable president. I don't understand that the European Commission will simply minimize the esteem of the greater body of legal committees and others in the smaller section. Everyone who studies this case sees that it is not tore up, and it lacks total ambition to accomplish it. I have to say, as it is, this type of work isn't very successful in controlling it. I think it's a very negative thing for the government that the first five-year budget is no better work than it really is. A respectable president. It can also be said that this is a national tax, where the residence time for tourists is already shrinking, and it can lead to a reduction in land activities as a result. It is worth considering that governments did not tell us how this change will affect the region. V.E.G. In fact, the Secretary of Economics said that we, as spoke of, have been advocates of bringing charges, that is a real national tax. I'd like to ask him a few questions, and I'll have to do with this discussion how he'll get it out that the charges for us need to be 61⁄28 you're going to need. K. On the label. Of course, it is about the highest. Financial and economic ministers are planning to reduce taxes on a high level of high-reflance. I kind of think it's amazing. I have to say, before the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics participated in politics, I thought he was a better reader of the economy than he really is. A respectable president. We in the smaller parts and in the movers' company have spoken of a much more efficient reimbursement for tourists coming to the country. Such a price can be moderate and can be a total of 3,565 billion each year. We also believe that the payment needs to be linked to the control of tourists, for thus the current can be controlled much better than to go to this general procedure. This could be done in a way that could include coming fees, natural fees, passenger fees, or landing fees, and could also vary according to airports and/or seasons. A respectable president. What has happened and in the case of tourism is the desire to increase the number of tourists in January and February. You might, for example. have the natural cost, or arrival, very modest at the time and then raise it when the demand is high. That's how we're controlling it. And I also think it would be much better and more successful to re-evaluate the tax system, don't go into this random thing, and do it in a lot of conflict, as well as to make it very sad. It's all so incomprehensible and confusing. A respectable president. Next, I want to go to college and state that policy is a university level is totally unacceptable. Clearly, one of the big challenges ahead is that Iceland is a competitive community and there is plenty of opportunities for young people to get on with their lives and that there are a wide range of employment choices. We want our economy to earn a well - paying job and the well - being of our society to prosper and grow. I've raised this issue before when we discussed financial policy. Clearly, the level of education in nations has much to do with their prosperity. The nations that pursue education and knowledge are one of the best in the long run. Therefore, we want them to be competitive colleges who can prepare the country's future for the challenges ahead and thus be able to promote an Icelandic community. A respectable president. Why isn't investing enough at university? Why is it that there is a government that is not ready to invest in the future? According to the plan, there is virtually no increase in donations from 2019◯22022. The increase in this five - year period is approximately 1.3%, while it is much more economic. A respectable president. They lack a vision of the future in the affairs of the university, and it can be said, in effect, that this is a return visit. In the lead of the election, there was a monotonous among Iceland's political parties to aim for the average OECD state during the terms of budgetary donations for each university student. The budget is not consistent with the promises of the election and is far from the direction of the Scientific and Technical Council to achieve the OECD average and the Northern national average in 2020. It is, in fact, quite remarkable to see this government budget in which this lack of ambition is on the people. It is evident that with this schedule and with an unchanged number of students at the university, Iceland will late reach this OECD average, much less the Northern American average. According to the head of the University of Iceland, the only way to get those averages is to reduce the number of students at the university. I'm asking a body of Congress, is that what we want? Do we really want to reduce the number of college students? Is that the future of the government? In addition, in the plan, Hustor is an education program to make a contribution to the university. So a substantial part of this small increase goes to the construction of Búsa informs the first few years. This is not expected to advance to the university until after the building of the house in 2020. A respectable president. I've told you before that there's a particular deception, i.e. Keeping this investment with, without it the increase to the university level is virtually zero. Another question is whether the five - year budget is really in harmony with the government's government covenant. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: The government will contribute to the development of community infrastructure, transport, health and education systems, and a powerful and competitive business life for citizens all over the country. Also stated in a government contract, by permission of the president: The university should be supported by maintaining quality and meeting international competition as cooperation and coordination between Icelandic and scientific institutions are increasing. The school system model has to be reviewed with regard to the different costs and diversity of the student group. I ask, "Why is there so much inconsistencies in the Treaty and the 5-year budget? " I think this will come as a big surprise to all votes for the Revolution and the Bright Future, and probably a big surprise to the Independence Party. I am convinced that if men had presented this five - year budget with this vision, the political parties would have received a complete dropout in the election. A respectable president. To draw up my comments, I would like to mention, firstly, that everything needs to be increased the transparency and the number of stratospherics so that there is no conflicting messages in this program. Second, it is urgent to review the proposed changes in the value tax and finally and third, this lack of ambition that makes donations to the university.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just want to come in to the travel service and our comets. We now made a left-green project for a last year's budget on return charges, it was dropped. Now I know that the advance party has made such a suggestion, and it's the best thing to do. What does what? A senator with a financial program and its grounds, considering that this is all over the fleet and the income expected from the value of tax changes in the tourism industry are not insured? Is it not upset that the income expected to follow the important tax changes if it is rich in the management sector to make changes there and consider other methods, such as. what's the charge? I'd love to hear from what. A senator as to whether there was any fear of coming fees, that it was a national tax, and if there is no way to look at such a route as Scottish, as it has been called on the coming charges and the fare of a passenger on the domestic flight. Such routes have been approved by the ESA. Could we not take such a trip to our home country? Counts 'em out. Is it not advisable for a senator to consider coming charges and the ideas of cost-employment changes to be a great national tax, particularly on the small starters around the country that are getting their way around the world at today's tourism?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for asking about the coming charges and whether a government budget is not just upset. I agree with that. The budget is upset about this, as we can see sitting here in the Senate Hall and discussing these matters at the Senate Hall, that the minister of finance is sitting here all alone. I quoted poetry just now as high as I could. The financial and economic minister put himself on his Facebook page, there might have been a little bit of work when I was moving it, I liked it so much that there was more powder in performing the poem. It's a poem that's the highest. The financial and economic minister puts on his page because I expect him to experience himself completely all alone with a national financial programme. It is clear that more of the legal committee has suggested that the exchange of the merit tax is postponed. That must mean that there is no political unity on the subject. The lawgiver and the executive authority are being brought up in this regard, and it is not good luck to manage in my opinion. I agree with what. A senator's orders are to examine the coming and the Scottish route. It's just a lot simpler. This would be much more acceptable, and it has far greater opportunities to direct passengers to the country because we can both raise and lower the return rate, and we can change it according to seasons. It's a way many countries have gone. I feel that it is both normal to take a closer look, and it doesn't have to take as long. And like I say, we need to ask the highest. Financial and economic minister better into how he gets his numbers, 6 ◯8 of you. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In this financial program, there are a number of things that you are surprised at. A theme proposal has been established for a energy exchange strategy and a 40% renewable energy source in the country in 2030. There does not seem to be a lot of money on the earmark in this financial program. The next year, as planned today, is simply a reduction. In the subsequent period, in the next four years, there are only 120 million additions to innovation and research fund. K. which, of course, is not a large sum in this context. If they need to promote this support system and further research, then research, development, and innovation must be enhanced, but there's nothing behind them. There are so many things in this financial program that are ambitious actions and goals and things look really good on paper, but when you start to look at the basics and what money to put in this, it's kind of about to be the empty cabin, and the emperor's got no clothes on. Not all of the ambitions and dramatic descriptions of various methods of action that are truly beneficial, like energy exchange, are included in the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u88	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, my name, that if you are going to have a credible plan, then the funding must, of course, be included. That is why I specifically mentioned in my speech that I miss it, and I feel that it is very irresponsible for us to go in that way in the next year, knowing that progress and economic growth will be driven by the knowledge community. Our neighbors and countries that we would like to compare with, the North and other countries place tremendous emphasis on everything related to research and innovation. I want to see us go the same way. When we consider factors such as development in energy, using technology and so on, we just have to invest in it because that's when we're planning on investing in the future. That's why I also make college special because if we're going to be in the top row in this regard, we're gonna have to have a powerful college of research. As I understand the college community these days, they say: We'll be drawn back because there's not enough money being put in there. Exactly the same with what we're talking about here. Thus, in many respects there is a five - year - old national budget and all the discussions that take place in the Assembly Hall. As we sit here at the council, we come to appreciate much better in which direction governments are actually going and in particular that we can reveal where the maladys are. I'm assuming that the highest. Economic and economic ministers will take into account many of the comments presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u89	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. She was just finely built up, and it was good to follow her along. I agree with her, especially what she said about the opinions of the General agent. I would have, for example. Wanting the chairman of the budget board to respond and discuss the situation, what the situation is, because I know it's being worked on and that it would have been interesting to get it out here. Hv. A senator has a lot of money knowledge, and in his talk on staging and other matters that we have so often called. I'd like to review it with her how she envisions it, because now a national financial program is setting up for a recession in income, while infrastructure is being proclaimed. This is a public declaration of taxes, as we know it, and it was also done in the last human government. There was a senator. Then he spoke up. A senator on the gang stairway. I ask her, " Which way does she think is best to face this enormous display of success? ' Where should we go? Then I'd like to ask her, too, because she talked about the travel service, about government and rural income. For example, she can support herself. step-in-the-bed? Would she imagine that we could divide it between the state and the community, and then how? I myself believe it is very important that we find increased income institutions for our communities. This has been one of the factors mentioned in this connection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u90	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the questions. They're very good. Let me give you one example of a straggographic analysis and why I think this increase in the value tax is so unscrupulous and unconvinced. If we had a proper staging analysis, I think it would be a much more reasonable approach to the U.S. and to us who are evaluating a national financial programme if we had just seen how comeurance is coming out and what their effect is on the economy and how this increase in taxation of tourism comes out and then a decrease in the value tax. There has already been some unpredictable development in the schedule, i.e. We don't know if there's political unity on this. We don't really know if the economy will allow us to reduce the value of the extra tax. I know that many tourists in the tourism department are very skeptical that the decline will take place in the economy, so all of this is so confusing at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. If he had developed such a staging analysis about the charges, I'm pretty sure that it would have shown that there was a much simpler operation and a much better control that would be involved in the tourism operation. I think the whole thing would be much better prepared if people had used such tools and tools. It's not just at the highest. I think we should have been working on that in the past government. As for the whole foreign influx that comes through the service balance in my reply afterwards, I will be so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u91	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer and eagerly wait for the other. I'm just going to proceed with the staging analysis, and I'll agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said. We called for such a diagnosis on the budget board and wanted to see the outcome, not just in this matter, but in other matters. I'm sure I'm not going to belittle the fact that we're in a process we're developing. Of course, when such dramatic changes are proposed, we need to understand how they come out. I'd also like to access the school system mentioned by the senator, but here we have expected and more of the legal committees talk about focusing just on quality instead of growth. Are we talking about an oral test, or are we talking about a decrease in the number of students? There, representatives of the greater part must be sure of what they are doing. In the opinion of the committee, the requirement for living in high school is to be revised. It is suggested that the additional money given to the university level at the 2017 budget will continue in budgets. Can I not agree that we would have needed some diagnostics? ' Where should this money be taken from? What topic areas in this field are available? I think it's missing. The frame should not be extended, it should neither be added nor increase income nor extra expenses, but should be kept within the box. But who's available? I think it's very important. The Senator spoke of the largest part being the building of the Icelandic Talent House. Then I'd like to say that the deception presented here is that the contribution of the University of Happiness is included in the number that, of course, when detracted, that the direct contribution of the state funds is considerably less this year particularly, let alone the next, but the budget indicates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for providing good questions and comments on the five - year budget. First, I'm going to go over a little bit of the crown's scholarship and what we could possibly do. In my opinion, the Navy has to continue to buy foreign currency. Even though the so - called negative ◯carry is quite much, in my opinion, a certain social reconciliation must exist, now that we are going into the summertime, that the Navy does what it has done, he has been expanding the currency reserve, and just need to stay on that side. As far as I'm concerned, we could split it up as well. I've talked about putting up a so-called stability fund. A section of the currency reserve could be put into stability funds, and it could invest in possessions that produce higher profits because the currency reserve and investment policy associated with it is more careful. In my opinion, we should look to Norway. We're supposed to charge resources, travel services use resources and sell access to Iceland's nature, so I feel that, in time, charges should go to this stability fund. I feel that fishing could go into such a fund, including the profit of land activation. We're supposed to be living for the future, and we're supposed to use this opportunity when it's so good. When it's so much currency charge it needs to be taken out of circulation with the cost paid by the Bank of Iceland. Many have put questions on the subject when it was announced that the bank was stopping regularly the payoffs. But I've always understood that they'll still buy. If not, it is clear that there will be continued strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u93	A respectable president. Last night, the fine senator, now seated on the President's throne, had said that he was not impressed by these financial programs and would best flush it into the toilet. Actually, I had to, because it would be to block a toilet and a drain, and now there's not much money to go on a financial project for drainage. I don't think that's improving. I'd like to put this into words my review, which I returned to the budget committee as a member of the Environment and Transport Committee. There I did not exaggerate much text, but I did not find it good to write - yes, I could have written to a hell of a long dog about what might be done, but such a long dog would always be vague and unconcerned because it lacks accurate lists of numbers and goals and such. According to Article 6. Public financial law is a transparency of one of their five baseline values. Thus, it is surprising that in a financial program it is not possible to see how capital is intended to divide the individual issues of each topic field; it is merely a conversation of each topic field. So signed is a number of problems with this project, in which the above legal signals are clearly lacking. Under my committee, there are three topic areas, including a topic area 8 involved in rural society and geographic matters. For example, a financial program says on page 20. 168, with President's permission: The largest challenge for the environment is the development of sustainable communities in the country. There are a number of factors, such as the development of transport and communication, energy, development of employment, public service, population development in parts of the country, including the availability and education of workers. To accomplish this, the developer's based programme and operating plans for the national part of the programme are developed. It lacks, as in most other grammatical fields, more accurate exports. There is some mention of planned actions and planning, but not of dates or money. For years, members of the rural community have pointed to the need to strengthen the financial institutions of the rural community by some means. Clearly, their expenses are not consistent with income. In this regard, for example, there are heavy loads, such as the services of disabled or elderly, as well as those of a carotid in a lake band. There is no comment on the construction of infrastructures at tourist locations or the share of rural society at the host's expense and/or value tax, although it is apparent that the costs of rural society due to tourism have been considerable. It must be ensured that Member State budgets will be ensured for long periods of time, but it does not appear to be in financial control. The 11th subject to this committee I am in, transport and communications, is next scheduled for me. Clearly, there is a need for a major campaign of transport in this country, both in the air, on the air, and on the uterus. For example, the U.S. is missing to meet the cumulative maintenance needs of the road system. It would be to resuscitate to enumerate all the necessary new projects in this country. Decades have been neglected for years, and they need to be added in many parts of the country, especially by electrical connections for all sizes and ships, so that they do not have to burn oil, tied to the docks, with the pollution involved. It would be natural for a national flight to be defined as part of a public transportation and to use financial support accordingly. In this context, the so - called Scottish way of subsidizing aeroplane bills for the local people might be considered. Living under money management clinics will have to stop the registration of vehicles by less than one year. The challenge could be made by allowing the Agency to enjoy a larger part of the market income than is now being done. Regarding the environment, the financial program on page 16 says. 240, with President's permission: The three major challenges in the topic area may be said to be three. First, find ways to deal with the commitments in climates that Iceland has had with the Paris Convention. Second, to ensure sustainable use of land, recovery of ecosystems and protection of nature, including With increased stress as a result of the growing number of tourists who come home for the country. Third, finding ways to ensure acceptable monitoring and protection due to natural years, but the risk of loss of life and property has increased substantially both because of increasing travel currents around the high-risk area of the year due to the impacts of climate change and increased seismic activity at core stations. There is a lack of, in part, like in other areas of the world, further implementations, information on the disposition of capitals, and more precise timing. There is good reason to be concerned about the environment in Iceland, especially the climate. Iceland's Economic Institutes Report paints a dark picture of the situation, and it cannot be concluded that an existing financial plan will assume that the initiative to raise will be set up in that category. It would be easy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by direct action. A wooder could easily plant much more plants than is now being done, but for the sake of fun, it is now only planted in 1 spray. a acres of land a year, but before a financial breakdown, it was planted in 2 ounces. acres a year. Today's hunger policy in forestry has made it difficult for most deforestation centers in the country to cope with financial problems. Now it is so high that the only specialized forest plant that produces only forest plants and, in particular, may have to lay down the hatches. There is indeed a large shield. The more efficient aims are lacking in pre-circuit operating centres. The energy exchange program allows more than 200 million for the project over the next three years. This amount would have to be doubled or tripled, at least, in order to speed up transport energy exchange. Other types of environmentally friendly fuels, such as hydrogen, methadone, and biodisil, must also be supported. A respectable president. The financial body wrote an opinion on this financial program and produced it on April 14th. and have some things to do with financial planning. The baseline value of public funds is sustainable, cautious, stable, firm and transparent. In view of this fine financial body, the budget shows that it has generally not been guided by its design, that it is referred to in a few places in the law text, and that the baseline committee is mentioned in this context, but in short consideration. In view of baseline transparency, the government needs to be consistent in policy development and to be clear how the policy should be adjusted. The failure to do this is in opposition to baseline transparency. The program presents key numbers, either on the name of the time or as the proportion of gross domestic product. Some of these numbers can be found, not in the section of the plan, but only at the beginning of the publication of key numbers. This makes comparison difficult and does not have a translucency effect. It also discusses that OECD sets out ten basic principles to guide the management of public funds. A financial body believes that the financial program reflects these rules well but with one exception. The principles of OECD, where people know how to handle things, say that the design of public investment decisions and their financing is required to meet society's needs effectively, with cost and profit being guided and in a uniform way. The accepted method of this is cost- and-preservation analysis. It is used in most lands around us. Such analysis is not made in a financial program. Budget planning does not discuss how the timing of investments within the infrastructure should harmonize with economic rhythms. Builds it only on the priorities of the government without further evidence. This does not correlate with baseline safety measures, transparency and stability. They believe that financial advice is not sufficiently clear on the work of the individual causes but is entrusted to the advisers of the local topic. The effects on stability and in opposition to baseline transparency and stability are impossible to assess. A financial body feels that it lacks a common red thread, which would tell you how the use of capital for each topic field was distributed. In fact, financing is not even rated down to the litigation classes of every subject. Not much of anything to be said about shopping in the policy of climate change. It's because there's a lot of transparency we need. Opacity can lead to a lack of firmness because the value of money is not clear from the start. This is naturally especially important to the Committee. At times, I have said that government policies have long been affected. That it is rarely in the long term, is this usually to five years, and such policy is made by council officials. We certainly have plans that are long-term, but this is what I've thought in the short time I've been here at the Council. The time runs away from me, a respectable president. I run things, and I come to a case that is very dear to me. It's high school. This morning's news came from reports that students were on a high level leaving sports and leisure activities at high school because of the pressures they faced following short - term studies to the student's test. And that they experienced more anxiety and depression than ever before, and they did not improve. For example, a financial program says on page 20. 265, with permission from the President: ▪ Long - term financial resources for high school have left their mark on high school activities and their operating position. Fundamental funding has been affected by the quality of teaching and learning, and it has not been possible to provide adequate support or new tools and teaching tools. It was expected that in order to achieve the balance of high school funding, financial allowances developed during the reduction of students would be used. It is this with the vision of the future and the primary objective. On page 18. 266 reports on this, i.e. for the future, and for the primary goals in the high school system. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The future vision of the topic field is that students become active and responsible citizens in a democratic society after a high school education. They will also be well prepared for business activities and academic and professional academic education. These are noble goals, which I have actually seen in all the textbooks that have been in force for the past 18 years and no doubt longer, but at this point I have worked at this stage for the past 18 years. I'll continue with my quote, with President's permission: ▪ The objective of the 2022 topic field is that more and younger students complete a course that will prepare them well for a wide range of employment jobs and continued to study. I find this a little interesting to me, that more and younger students are expected to complete their schooling and thus enter the job life because there have been years of working together and no natural reforms and changes in the future. And there's a reference to my favorite, so it's called the calculus. It says, and I continue to quote with permission of the president, on page. 266: The challenge is to develop a new calculus, which will give equal consideration to the general needs of the schools and their specific needs. A respectable president. As a new young teacher, I participated in a high school teacher conference in a northern country in October 1998. There was much discussion about a defective calculus, and there was a significant need to be made, and there are arguments that I'm not going to mention here. But okay. Yes, it is the same song that I heard ever since at every meeting where teachers from more than one school met.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I'd like to ask you something. A senator into something that bothers me, and perhaps he has found the answer. I've been sitting down. Environmental and transport committees, working side by side. A senator knows that he has good intentions and is able to understand matters. There I have only scratched my head about how to perform the promises and declarations that have come out of my mouth. Government or pen. I allow myself to quote the Constitution, by permission of the President. The climate program is first discussed in line with the Paris Convention, and it says: The plan includes green catalysts, forestry, land healing, and transport exchange of energy. The green economy needs to be expanded. Now, for the next five years, we'll discuss the budget of the government, where all the projects I listed - I'm saying that I was very happy when I read this in the Treaty, that there's a lot of work to be done in the spirit of modern reactions, but I haven't seen these projects anywhere in the financial agenda. The total environmental pattern is increasing by about One billion if I remember correctly. Hv. There was a senator who came in fine on forestry, land healing, need for it. Well, maybe. A senator helped me in that matter? Is that something other than words empty? Has he found the money that should follow these promises?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér answers. I have a feeling that it will be easier for me to invent the life machine than to figure out how to live up to the promises and promises made in the government covenant. Maybe it was just policy or focus. That may be. But, yes, energy exchange is the most important issue of our time. It smells like an environment in which we are now wearing our clothes. Hv. A senator mentioned forestry earlier. We were assigned to the Forest Forest Service at our meeting on the Environment and Transport Committee. We also met with a representative of the land transplant, where the people complained bitterly that there was no money available to them. However, the case is that these numbers are very similar to those intended for the environment for the next few years. I'm sorry. According to a plan, 16 billion and 583 million are expected. Then, in 2019, this amount goes down even more in 2020, goes up slightly in 2021, but does not reach the amount of 2018. [[The president calls.]] So the answer is no. I don't know how to live up to these plans, these promises.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u96	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came into the machine of eternity. At times, the highest number is heard. A financial minister has invented such a machine. At the very least, he seems to assume that the economy is eternal, where land and nation have fallen on some kind of time - long - lasting machine. Hv. In many of his fine speech, a member of the congregation gave a fine witness. We're sitting together. The Environment and Transport Committee, and he only introduced environmental issues. I'd like to ask about transportation too. We also had guests there. My feelings for one guest after another were that no one really knew what was going to happen in his own group. We have a transport program that seems to be some kind of selective project. We're sitting two of us together. Environmental and Transport Committee. Has a what? A senator has any feeling of what to do with transportation in the near future? Will the transport program be established? [[The president calls.]] Is that what he can help me read?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u97	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér second answer. According to road type information, it will take at least 10◯12 billion to meet the maintenance need for the road system. Then I'm just talking about a growing need for maintenance. Then we are not even discussing new projects that are urgent, since this tradition has been so, I don't think it was a rule but a tradition, giving 1.5% of GDP to road transport has now been irreparably broken. That's why we're at the place where we are. [[The president calls.]] Maybe we should do as suggested by the Land Hospital, put some kind of control over the roads. That might just be smart.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u98	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. It presents a number of factors in his speech, such as the transparency in this program, it is difficult to distinguish between stock costs and the cost of operating in various areas. At the same time, I noticed that it was difficult to obtain information from councilors to get more disunited information on how to finance the goals set out in the program. I'd like to say that this was about the committee I have on, i.e. A welfare committee, asking why. A member of the council whether the committee he serves is the same. Also came the second. A senator entered the course and discussed the situation. that the garden had been unsettled. I would like to ask if he sees any sign in this budget program not to contribute to this study, whether there is an increase in funding for that category, and if so, if it is a goal, how to achieve it, it's a trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for the counter-sponsored. It wasn't that much good for an environment and transportation committee to see, but it's easy to answer. The cover was not large in the work of that committee. Hv. A senator mentioned the training and whether there is any evidence to encourage it. I can't see that in a financial program. However, I have seen clues in another matter involving training. They turn to the High School of the Daytime and Technologies School. You see, it seems to me to the highest. A minister of education and culture is on the run from the mine and sees the option of handing it over to a private member who will develop it and nurture it, which would have to be such as nothing, not at all, if it were behind some analysis that it was real and good, something that mattered, and would be an improvement, and some policies, policies, would have occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u100	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. For the answer, a senator must say that it is very sad to hear that this important study should be followed only in the way that we have observed in the recent news. Of course, all of us have noted the conflict between the management hearings of the tourist industry. They have spoken a cross, and they have snarled in it. I'd like to ask you what. The senator feels how he feels about the suggestion that we candidates have submitted for return charges and that they will be lower, for example. in the country as an incentive for airlines to even land in Akureyri or Eglels and whether they are in favor of a relative host's fee instead of a fixed number to meet people who stay in less expensive places, so you don't have to pay the same thing as if you go to a luxury hotel in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir the second answered. It's clear that it's natural for a bedside charge to be a percentage, not a regular quarter, just to be said. I can't see that it's normal to pay the same amount in a migratory that is paid in the finest hotel in the country. I don't know if it's right to pick up a comeback. I think it might be considered if such is in harmony with our international commitments to Iceland. But I'm sure that whatever you do needs to look for ways to spread the tourist currents that are more likely to come through the country and strengthen your rural communities to receive it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u102	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech, but I would like to draw attention to the talk just recently mentioned, and I miss that many legal committees are not present, especially those who were very busy here in the President's conference administration. But the highest. Mr President, I just don't make any comments when they're absent. They are all hard - pressed people, who carefully observe and participate in discussions as we all try to do. Hv. A senator who spoke earlier wrote a very interesting committee opinion, a review, from his committee that I read with great interest. Although I didn't fully understand the link to a financial plan, I thought of the senator when I saw the cover of the farm paper today and saw that the senator had found out how to talk about an important case that I think we should take very seriously. I'm not making it a subject to ridicule, unless less. I see that with this, the purpose of sending the matter up in other committees is to create an enjoyable friendship, which we will give full attention to. What the senator also carefully traced in his discourse was the disorder and the presentation that many have noted. Then I'd like to ask the senator, because now, for example, it is. has been distributed here a new proposal from the left movement, or its representative to a financial committee, which is now not an inhuman transparency: Has he studied this adjustment proposal? That's where even the two of them come from. to establish a new topic field on how to distribute hundreds of billions. How does the senator feel about the transformation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his answer. Obviously, I'm gonna have to take a look at the Farmer magazine. It's still in my office. I usually read it from cover to cover, which is where an interesting document is going. I remember that in March, the same was true. Talk about carnivore, something Piratar and I have talked about. It seems that local journalists have already realized that this is a future mouse, and that it is realistic, not unrealistic. I'm glad to hear it. A senator enjoyed reading my financial review. It's now that when it's hard to put a hand on something tangible, and it really was difficult for me in this program, you get help from the poet and write inspired texts. I even talked about it. ulibut as a denewable resource. I know why. A senator liked it. As for opaque and the change in the shape of the left green will have to be left green to answer for that. I welcome all good suggestions, if they're well-expedient. The problem is, I don't think that such a suggestion can ever be especially well developed because it lacks all the conditions that the Ministry of finance alone has access to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u104	Mr. President. Only on this progress, and I also have to say that it caused me a few frustrations in dealing with the financial program, that they only stand here and criticize, not an attempt to present themselves in a grammatical change, but a direct reference proposal, as they do. I'd like to hear from the senator the argument behind it. Second, does the senator support, or can you think of supporting the left movement's adjustment to a green offer to raise taxes during your scheduled period of about 4 million each home?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for the second answer. You're right. A senator says, we severely criticize the financial program. Because there are not enough time-to-number targets. No exchange of issues is found. It's only a total number, it's a conversation that says very little. In such a situation, making adjustments is difficult because we do not know what to change because we do not know what is behind it. It's more of a Trioretical financial program. Indeed, our ideas have been many, and they are well expressed in our Pirata accounts and in the opinion of the day. þm. Björn the Leví of Gunnar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u106	Madam President. I'm going to review much of the review of my fourth part of the employment committee that was requested by the financial programme discussed here. I think it is very important that the committees have obtained this matter in order to analyze it better. This was done on the job committee. We received a number of visitors under the sector of employment committees, and that was of great benefit. I'm going to start by reviewing the comments that are signed by the one listed here and going to the end of the general financial program that we are offered until the next five years. There are some problems with the development of the programme. I think a lot of people would agree that it's a handman. It's a matter of the presentation when investments and money are confused. This disturbs perspective and helps a person to identify within a legal field what is in that regard. Still, no one can hide that the objective of this budget is to bring together in the government business. It is enough in this context to refer to a discussion of co-efficient consumption as the aim is to decrease in the duration of the programme. The plans for the development of taxpayers and insurance bills are similar. Of course, this need not be surprising when considering the only right policy that governments take in public financial matters. It is surprising that as plans for recession are described in the public sector, plans for a large infrastructure structure are expressed without providing credible schemes for the funding of the projects requiring much financial resources. The financial needs of the institutions that were consulted for financial programmes are not reflected in the plan, and their representatives say that the priorities were not sufficient for them. Is it obvious, then, that some of the projects made by government will not be included within the narrow framework of financial planning? As a result, many of the number of tasks and staff needs to be reduced. There are also some projects that are transferred to institutions under the topic range of the employment committee without the possibility of providing funding in accordance with the financial programme. This inconsistencies led the business community to comment on the proposal to draw attention to the lack of policy and financial vision. It is noted on the basis of the organization that the budget for building wood is lacking in vision. Whether or not there is an increase in personal success or public activity would be evident. That would have to be. I can totally agree with that. It is hidden and underlying, it is not possible to determine whether or not a person will want to assign additional tasks to a private business or whether public members are expected to handle the projects and are under public authority. The question of whether it is a requirement by the government for financing from a joint fund to a common project is inevitable that a private partner is able to take their share and whether it is a full agreement among government officials. It is also unacceptable that expenses not be expected from Iceland's commitments because of the UN climate targets. The topic range that falls under the employment board, research, innovation and knowledge professions, consists of two Ministers and the activities of the Scientific and Technical Council, a competitive fund in research, the New World Translation Centre for Iceland and a private secret office. All the cohesive activity of the topic field is linked to the level of knowledge and use of knowledge and thus contributes to the development and development of time and future. For example, research and development are challenges to our society in the environment and climate. So how important it is that we cherish these treasures! Given the emphasis on innovation, research, and market matters, there is a great need to further strengthen even competitive funds, research funds, and other funds that fall under innovation and the scholarship to pioneers and science. The reality is that the funds do not match the current demand, and every year good and full - time applications have to be turned away, which may return much to society. Sadly, funds, such as next year, seem to be being reduced to these funds. The four - year increase that remains is only about 120 million. I just want to come on the farm, but maybe there hasn't been a lot of talk about him here. I give you a lot of concern over a number of professions that will underline the reexamination contract. We know that this country is now much more open to importing agricultural products than it has ever been. The representatives of the left green have warned of the increased import of fresh meat products to the country because of the risk of transmitting infectious diseases, which may result from such import, under the indication and logic of veterinary surgeons and disinfectants in these materials. It is clear that there are very high economic conditions included in the domestic agreements and uncertainty about how it affects agriculture and individual branches such as reduced living and compression in milk production and sheep culture, which, of course, are having great difficulties, especially sheep breeding in peripheral areas. There is also no question about the customs agreement when it is valid, how it may affect domestic agricultural production and individual status. No marketing campaign for Icelandic lamb or special support for sheep farms in perimeters and fractured areas. That's what I think I'm worried about. With regard to the fishing industry and the fishing industry, there is nothing available for every resource cost in these sectors. We know today that these exports, especially in smaller companies, have a serious problem with the strong gangs of the crown. Sad to say, many of these companies are faced with the need to deposit their lattice at the moment, smaller companies that do not have the strong sponsors that the giants have in the fishing road. There's a glow in the sky. The increase in this series of tests and surveillance events is very low. In recent years, such activities as the Food Organization have brought up a number of projects requiring resources and resources. The Agency is listed for projects but has not been funded enough. In financial programmes, the Agency seems to either be out of the way of not caring for tasks, such as animal travel, animal control, and fish farms, or in the offing of staff. It can be noted that the Food Organization has a follow-up of 6,000 sources. Then there's a Oceanographic Institute. She has long had financial resources, and much demands are made for her. It is unacceptable that this institution is wealthy as we know it and may even have to rely on funding from suppliers to finance basic research on fish stocks and marine life. This is something that we cannot live in, for the nation is so heavily dependent on the Narcotic Institute for research in our great business careers, which has brought us high profits and is a load of burdens in our society, a region of spine. A new research vessel is not expected, but the old Bjarni Sæmundsson, is nearly 50 years old. The budget for the vehicle tolerance assessment of the Marine Research Institute for Fishing is not expected. It is not normal for the Agency to have applied for the marine farm environment for research during the past year. A fishing room needs more funding. She's in a lot of trouble, too. They are farms that are unacceptable because they are unable to fulfill the great role they are assigned to play. Then it's travel service. It's been very much discussed here, and it's not weird, it's the industry that has taken a leap forward and has come to be the nation's largest industry and create the most currency. The ringland around the tourism service has been amazing. It has been highly critical of the plans to raise the value tax, and there are quite different places in this article. It is very critical that there has been no consultation with the travel agency or other representatives of the article on the proposed increase in merit tax. All analyses of the impact of tax change and tourism policies are missing. There must be some foreclosure in tourism as well as other employment services. I am deeply concerned that tourism companies outside the big capital area may have a serious problem, those who have been trying to make extra investments to build up on a whole year's foundation or extend the travel period from three months to six months or even a year. You have received many phone calls in order to fear that driving the sink is too heavy to handle. The article in the country needs more space to build itself, and caution is needed if we are to try to spread tourists beyond the big capital area, there is a great deal of effort in the delicate tourist areas and natural bulbs in the South and capital areas, and there is a need to direct people there where there is no such great trouble but a great chance of building up tourism if well handled, and thus all the parts of the country enjoy the arrival of tourists. It must be followed by a powerful infrastructure, which is just not there and that has not been sufficiently planned. We're stuck with all this in our arms. This financial plan does not indicate that there should be any effort on which to do something that really needs to be done if it is to hold a large stream of tourists high in the third million, which, of course, is a huge number of people, and we are likely to get out of it if nothing is going to happen. It's energy business. There is an ambitious proposal for energy change in the program. But she does not seem to benefit from financial resources. You can't offer such a thing. They talk about implementing electricalizations, and 40% of energy comes from renewable energy sources in 2030. If we are going to start following that route, the funds will have to follow, and they will definitely return. I see my time flies like he usually does. It's hard to make things stand when you want them to when you're that age. [[To the point: Every time it's fun.]] Every time it's fun, time's flying. But he always does when you're the best at it. I'm very conflicted with this financial plan. This is something that we're all learning about, and I think everybody wants to try to be good at it, and it's a set we can agree to be a plan for five years. Of course, the matter of government should have worked hard to make this greater peace with everyone, the entire council. With one person more part of it, it's just a natural, democratic requirement for humans to work more together, the box, that it doesn't always have to be this great conflict. It takes more flexibility. This stringent financial rule, which includes both quickly paying off debts and operating demand at 2%, can become a major source of excitement for society. And the community is very different, Icelandic society, far different from the rest of the world. There are only a number of economic areas, as I may have said quite often from this platform. You're in a hurry to say that when you think you're on the top of a century, an economy, and economic goods, it never goes beyond the big capital area in construction. You can never do anything in the country. As a result, public projects in the country are usually started. Of course, when things go wrong, the country is at the back of the bus. It's usually leftover size. As a community, we must try to have some equal resources in investments. Perhaps the only thing I noticed was how smart I was at the head of a legal committee committee was that they should analyze the land according to economic status, how economic and economic prosperity varied between land areas. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's been a long time. The areas that are more fragile and weaker get, I don't say, handouts, but they have every right to move into the 21st century. All have paid their taxes and obligations over the years. We are to take pride in being on some of the same pages, although only in the same book of Iceland, in a country where the settlements are weak. Of course, some are pretty strong as the big Eyjafjörður, so I mention it. But we are far behind, and we don't want a part of the country to be so excited that he has no chance of tearing up and that young people don't see an opportunity to come ashore in these areas to build up society with his education and knowledge. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm asking to put myself back on the rosary because I feel like I'm just warming up right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u107	Madam President. It was a nice, fun speech for you. Senator. We obviously do not agree on everything, but we can agree on some things. On the other hand, there is a slight rise in the motion of the left movement in a budget, and I suppose it is in the name of the left green or left - green members, where total tax returns are proposed, a total of tax returns are increased here during the financial period by 334 billion. I'd like to know what the basics are. They don't show up. It's just a number, between 50 and 70 billion each year. Come on, come on, what's with the taxes? Are these any new taxes, or are income taxes being raised on an individual or a value extra tax in travel? What is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u108	The president refused to mention four down. Since members of Congress have requested an answer, they will be reduced to one minute each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u109	Madam President. Yeah, that's a good question. We left greens believe that the current government, the last government, has leaked out of the economy, carefully estimated, yes, out of the economy, I would now say, by taking out the taxes that were before and weakening the income populations. [[Out of the economy?]] This has already happened, and it can be totally calculated to 50 to 60 billion in the last term. Now people continue on this journey. We're talking about continuing on a step - apart tax system, talking about money taxes, resource bills, fiscal taxes, carbon bills, some legal fees for travel, whether it's due or what, generally improving tax returns, it's said that there are over 80 billion. [[The president calls.]] Dietary taxes can be mentioned. These are all taxes that are not unusual about sharing with people and businesses in the country according to their means and circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u110	Madam President. I thank you very much for that answer, which may not have been as rich as I was hoping for. By 2022, the rate of tax returns to 200 billion. Then we'll go for it. A senator adding about 75 billion in 2022. I'd like to know where they're coming from. It's a little competition, of course, I realize that, between the government stand. Although the United States does not go so far, some 236 billion are proclaimed. You're 100 billion above, and I congratulate you very much on that. But where is the senator going... is he here proclaiming large increases in individual income taxes? What is it? Any kind of taxes, money taxes, should be brought back here, etc.? [[The president calls.]] Because it matters when we talk about the financial program what you're thinking, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u111	Madam President. That was a very informative answer. So, is the Independence Party and his escorts preaching tax increases?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u112	No, it's a financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u113	Is there a total tax increase in a financial program of up to 200 billion? Is that what they're doing with this government? If taxes increase by 200 billion by the end of this financial program, where do they come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u114	You have to read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u115	I'd find it interesting to know and to hear from it. paritaprevir Óli, Björn Kárason says he's reporting tax increases on the population by 200 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u116	You can see it divided.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u117	That's what it said. A senator here. It's just that it's no more complicated than that. But we're talking about getting back the taxes that this government and the last one has released, which was really needed to build up the wood. Well, why, if you think you have enough income, then this financial plan is just handless bags and unfashionable and doesn't make any progress in this community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. Her senator's speech. And while it is not often done to commend members of the other classes of this council hall, which I find unfortunate, I would like to allow myself to do so here: she is a very zealous man for national interests and employment. That caught my attention when she went through work at night. The job committee, where she sits, said something in a way that perhaps could have extended the task of achieving some harmony with the government's opposition to change or treatment. I was disappointed when I saw many minorities begin to appear and many minorities. I believe the trade committees would have had a fatal cause, if I allow myself to use that word, in order to reach a mutual conclusion through this review of the Committee. In view of this experience, I'd like to ask the senator to go over it with me, perhaps in view of where she might see this touch surface of a common conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u119	Madam President. Of course, it would have been very good if we could have reached a wide range of agreements to make any comments about the area that we had discussed on the job committee, to examine them, and to take into account the legal committee's proposal for change. But there was only a limited interest in it, or no one, I thought, of the greater part of it to do such a thing. [[For example, consider: Is that fair?]] Hence, the very nature of what they feel should be their subject, in view of the criticism given and reasoned, in the reviews and in the visitors'discussion of these matters. That's just the way it is. There's only a long distance between these classes. [[The president calls.]] This matter is being approached in a very different way. But I think there's supposed to be some consistent effect on these matters. [[Up front.]] I felt that he did not want to be there for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u120	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to add a little bit to my second request and later answer to what. A senator's criticism of the failure to perform diagnostic work and staging because of the changes produced by the financial programme. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: This is now a proposed class, which assumes 334 you. Millions of dollars extra taxes, 1 million per person, 4 million per person in each home: What analysis has been made of the impact of these changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u121	Madam President. These suggestions are based on describing our will, our left green, when we reach power, which will hopefully be very soon. There we want to make money to build a good welfare community. Then we all need to do our part. Some of us are well - known, such as step - by - step tax systems, which have been studied in many places, and this has been shown to include the greatest balance of income. A wealth tax is widely known throughout the world, and we know it here. Yeah, well, also carbon bills. I think most people would agree that it's normal, considering the climate change we're facing. Money tax has been present here and abroad. [[The president calls.]] All these are good acquaintances who would keep us building a welfare community. [[Up front.]] People often think that they can build a quality community on foam. But this financial program shows that income needs to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u122	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very good speech. I agree with her on the importance of initiative in the infrastructure of the weaker settlements of the country because it is not the same theme as we see in numbers here, including ... southwesthornofthe country. I would also like to agree with her comments about the importance of international tourism, outside the South and capital areas, having room to build up their services and jobs. I ask if she agrees with me in that there is a policy of structure to allow this space and thus contribute to and support the work structure that takes place around the article in the various scattered areas of the country. I'd like to ask her how she feels about our candidates' ideas for the coming charges and the relative stay-over fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u123	Madam President. I'm on the verge that if we are to build up, we need transportation in the country. There's a lot of opportunities. This is a great advantage for those parts of the country that may have been falling behind, getting these into their hands, being able to build up for travel, and making them full - time. It's happening right now. That's why cutting them down is very bad. I'm very happy that the advance party has reached us with left greens on our arrivals, and I agree heartily that there must be a connection between the host's fee and the price of lodging. It is not normal that the five - star hotels and campsites in Hunsa County are from about a year and a quarter, a hundred dollars a year, every night. That's not normal. You've got to connect this price.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u124	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to step in on the welfare issues and ask you why. A senator would know if she had studied that part. Now we see that the total amount of donations made for health care is greatly increasing. When you looked at and were surprised to see one cornea, one of the clinics in the capital area could be built that left a clear picture of how to strengthen your health care. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament whether it is my concern that there is a serious problem with the budget on how to improve national health care centres and whether it is not important for clear lines to come up with, especially since we have been implementing a new reference system where the health care needs of the health system are increasing. I ask if she will not agree that it is very important that we look to health care at national health care rather than just here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u125	Madam President. Yes, I think it's very important. In the capital area, I received a personal business report from medical facilities, but there has been economic hardship to health care in the country. It needs to be built up, and so do these hospitals, which are wide and wide around the country. Because I know the best of what I can do, as in the Fourth Hospital in Isafjordur, many machines are getting too old. In a financial program, we are talking about buying, maintenance, business, and new investments, and there's only 338 billion there. K. an absolute increase in 2018 to hospital services. Of course, this is far from what has been spoken about here by the executives, for it itself says that the health - care professional knows where the shoe goes and speaks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u126	Madam President. Like my colleagues, I thank you for a nice and pleasant talk earlier. I'd like to move on a little bit. I was sitting by the computer during the discussion and asking questions earlier. The change from the 1st smaller section of the budget board, presented, was considered to increase taxes and costs of 334 billion. He generates a new topic range of 295 billion. There is a significant increase in real value, but we were highly criticized for our annual increase in government spending by 8.5% in actuality between years. It's stated irresponsible, I was only in an excel document right now: the state government next year has figures of 46.5.7% every year in this range for the next few years. So this is a huge amount. If we add this to the smaller tax increases, I think we're talking about a range of 11.5 and 12.5 percent between years of age, what's being said. [[The president calls.]] Does the Senator consider the Icelandic economy and society to tolerate such financial increases?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u127	Madam President. These are excellent questions from my cousin, the Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson. But I think it doesn't matter where we take our income. Today, the majority of the land's assets are at about 10 to20% of large companies or individuals. The common resources of the nation and the profit of the nation are not properly divided. It is possible to balance within the country, increase the equation, absorb the tax system from those companies and persons who are able to contribute more to the community, and balance it with a step - by - step tax system. We are not talking about an increase in taxes on ordinary employees or middle - income workers. [[The president calls.]] I believe the economy and the community will tolerate these tax increases we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u128	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think there might be in many ways a very interesting discussion, taking it a little further, when you figure out these numbers just by putting in an excel document and counting for ten minutes, what kind of money we're talking about in percent. If we are talking about economic catastrians in Iceland, historically, we intend to improve between the individual years of the year 2018/2019, a total of 11.7% between the ages, then 12% and 12.2% between the years. There are numbers that I think would be very interesting to put into all models and such factors. We'll develop this discussion on Friday and then take the idea further. I agree, however, when the senator introduces national diagnostics, reviews with construction status, and so forth. We've talked about this on a financial committee, coming to that job, and they want to go much further in those analyses. It would be interesting to discuss the tax returns. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u129	Madam President. We as a nation can't always be placed in an excel document. It's just that way. The tax returns are very variable in this country. Severe inequities and indiscretions are present. I spoke to a man I met at the Coffee Car, a sailor from the passions this morning. He said he had 270 pieces. K. in a month by paying for a lifetime of pension. Of that 270 you. A k., which is a combined pension fund and pensions, would be taken 70 far away. K. I'll tax you. Is that normal? To be taxing people who don't make more money than this? When people don't take normal taxes, resource taxes, high-pay taxes, higher fishing costs, etc.? Is that normal? It's just a lot of roughness. The funds will continue to be swept to such high percentages of people in the land as property, while the rest are to bear all the burdens and to run this community. [[The president calls.]] It's just not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u130	Madam President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say thank you for the highest. Ministers for being here with us, showing respect and consideration for the House of Congress, and making the decision to sit with us while discussing financial programs. This is no ordinary day in life. Minister, told me the lie; for today, the paradise is a one year's birthday and is still alive, though it may be said of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u131	Don't ever go any faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u132	I guess she's at best depending on the events, as they often say. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u134	A respectable president. I will discuss in my speech the minorities of the Joint Committee on Health Committee issues. The work of the Committee is complex and important, touching all the people from the cradle to the grave, i.e. Health and pension insurance, social services, children's affairs, activities of the elderly and of the disabled, housing, employment markets and health care. A financial programme on the Committee was generally discussed with the work ethic and procedure involved in the matter of convergence. For the first time in a new legal environment, work was rather cautious, searching, and unremarkable in many respects. They were all in the same boat. In the course of time, it is important that the fixed committees be able to discuss a much more detailed budget with longer notices and that the analysis and treatment of the programme should be decided. Then there is an insufficient basis for the development of financial programmes to be clear, and there is a much higher basis, especially for the format of numbers. It is a simple, unsolved job if the above does not have access to the estimated cost of individual action, as far as possible. The need for a standard procedure on how to estimate the cost of action in this important policy plan is needed. The need for increased transparency, such as the public financial law, and the publishing of budget costs is broken down by segregation. Then it shows amazing relief, I don't take deeper in the year, that the production of financial programs is not disintegrated on the other hand, the cost of business costs, and the cost of individual investments in a specific language field. But that was the first time that many have had a reputation for doing so. In short, I'm going to explain the UN's position on the main issues involved in welfare matters. Our agent on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir In his speech, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, has made a detailed explanation of various factors that are related to the different categories of languages and the changes that we make as a whole, all well - worked and put forth with a great deal of responsibility. The red thread is improved in the interests of public employees and has increased equations, justice, and fairness in society. Regarding hospital services, the financial program shows that contributions to it grow somewhat, or about 16 billion between the period and the year 2022, or about 20%. Of these, the contribution to the construction of the new Brotherly Hospital, 8.7 billion, and additional contributions to other aspects of 7.3 billion, which is a 9% real increase over time. If this becomes the conclusion of the programme, it will be clear that in the next year, all health - care institutions of the country are faced with a problem, and immediately this year's work is on the horizon. This is true of the International Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, as is true of other health institutions around the country. This increase is much less than the minimum supplementary need, e.g. The hospital has estimated that the hospital needs to be run, including the hospital. Due to population development, shortlists, minimum maintenance, and equipment purchases, as well as other urgent tasks. Only the land hospital alone will probably need 5 billion bucks. in addition to getting to a reasonably quiet sea, or in a sea of at least For a while. The financial agenda is not clear whether funds are set up for the foundation of the Akureyri Hospital or for the period in which they will fall. Clearly, major improvements and construction projects are being carried out in more public places around the country, e.g. and on Selephoss, and on Aclinai, and in Stykkisolmi. It is not in any way possible to see whether any money is set aside for these projects in an existing financial programme and more likely not to be. There will be disagreements and problems in the activities of these institutions. Health care in the country is a service that serves as a medical service outside the hospital. Health care in many parts of the country has been unsatisfactory in recent years, and it has been since the financial breakdown when the number of doctors disappeared from foreign work and others who were finishing their studies drew home. This can be dramatic, for they are young families that are easily rooted if they are overindulged, children go to school, and grow and thrive in a group of friends. This is the new reality today, and it shows us that if we are to return to the country's young Icelandic doctors who are going to study abroad, we must do well in building health care. During all this period, national health centres have been overcrowded and the most urgent projects have been solved by construction services and human resources. Over the period, large increases in pay paid by physicians, including contractors, have not been improved as part of the government's pay system. The government's Accounting, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of finance, has agreed to the work programme for recruiting doctors outside the state's pay system. When asked whether to improve the pay raise to the contractors, there will be few answers, and in fact, people look away and say, "Sorry, man, I'm sorry. That is the physical answer. The existing financial strategy does not assume the effort that is needed, as you can see. If there is a goal for health care to be the first site of health care in the health system, it is necessary to review the network of stations, especially in the country. In addition, health care issues are a special challenge in view of the new payment system that brings further work to the health - care providers on an increasing scale. This requires increased resources, both in the situation and in the order of professional people. A new health - care system was started on May 1 last. The annual cost is estimated to be about 1.5 billion. The change means that you have a temperature of less than 70. K. a total of over a year's pay program for public patient services for health care, hospitals, specialist physicians, imaging, research and training. The change is largely funded by the provision of costs from those who need much health care to those who need less service. This means that for the very best possible service required, the costs of expert physicians and for research and imaging will rise considerably before roofing. We agreed to the law, the health minister promised that the roof for the general patient would be reduced to about 50. K. and financed by 2017, but as we have seen, there will be no change to the plan. The body feels that the public pay sector is already too high in the medical service, that the current operation is overreached, covered, and the risk of an increase in large numbers of users will lead to an even higher level of money - rich groups denying health care. The body suggests that health care will be free, and it spoke in the concierge of the election that the payer of patients would be reduced in resources. The Consistency proposal for its first phase is now scheduled for a welfare committee and is, in effect, on the way that health care will be free, the medical services outside the medical facility will not go up to 35 of you. K. each year, the funds companies of the elderly and the disability of dentists will be reduced. Hospital transport is part of a basic health care facility. No more a contract about the move in the country. Contracts with Iceland's Red Cross on business and the operation of a medical vehicle on behalf of the Ministry failed two years ago. Despite the advances of the red cross, which are owned and operated on by the automobiles and their equipment, the problem has not been resolved again. The Ministry has not given out whether the agreement will be made with the same parties, whether the Ministry will accept the ministry or the service will be offered to the private person. I wonder if there's fish under a rock. The contract is underestimated because of the increased cost of the ministry, which includes the field ministry. in ever better equipped automobiles, which in many cases are high - tech clinics on four wheels. No information on this material can be found in the financial program. It's not a big deal. For nearly 60 years, Iceland's Red Cross has been very successful and successful in working with them. It is a business service that is not performed for profit, but the Red Cross is of great value, including the Red Cross. for emotional reasons. Nurse and rehabilitation services are a major part of the tasks under this group of paintings. According to financial programmes, five new nursing homes are planned for the year 2022, but the schedule is not different for the number of spaces to be used. On page 18. 68 this fine publication speaks of a 261 compartment, later spoken of 292 spaces in the same publication. There's about 31 spaces at a cost that runs at more than 300 million. K. A year's basis. This increase is not at all sufficient to solve a major problem in the capital area. In the article, you can read that this space is down to 212. They do not have enough space to solve the problem in the capital area and likely study only half of the estimated need to be 2020. In addition, increasing the daily cycle is expected to be by 150 between the period and the year 2022. It is then assumed to improve the instruments and meet the security and construction requirements in many elderly institutions and to expect that during the period, there will be a reimbursement in 115 compartments. The lawsuit has an estimated total of about 5 billion dollars. which is nowhere near the actual expenses that come from these projects. The services of the nursing homes begin in stages until 2022. Their operation is costing the current price of less than 3 billion a year when all of them will be in business. With this in mind, however, it is gently estimated that the cost of operating will be over 10 billion dollars in the period. One hundred new day space, as well as the use of 150 each day, is likely to cost about 1 billion. Refining is an uncertain amount of money, but it is likely to run to 400,600 million. K. The conclusion, then, is that if plans are to become reality, they need substantial financial support. It is also noted that nursing homes are already subsidies, and many are in business problems despite a recent service contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. It is estimated that the nurses'daily expenses are too low to achieve a stable operation. A respectable president. Drug and medical products are products that Iceland consumes with great anger and more than any country in Europe in repeated surveys. No particular reason for this observation has been investigated. The goal of the government is to increase the number of new drugs produced, but the weight of the body is not clear. However, the costs for the induction of new drugs and the high drug consumption in Iceland in general have been improved, and financial programmes do not seem to predict the inevitable trend that appears to be imminent, i.e. increased expectations for the production of new drugs that are constantly increasing, evolution, and aging of the nation. In this regard, it is similar. New technology creates increased expectations. likewise, the MPA induction will require increased management measures, which can make the right helpers crucial to the quality of life in individuals with physical disability. There is no way to meet the expectations of efforts in the past few years, and in financial planning to the next year, there is no obvious improvement. This group is the subject of disability and the affairs of disabled people. Long-term changes in the rights of micro-lifers in the social security system in line with the changes made in the rights of nursing patients feel that the Union is a priority, and that was the campaign for the current elections for the last election. Unrecognised disclosure of these powers is not given until first of all in 2019 C.E. Meanwhile, micro-energy pensioners enjoy complex, non-transparent social security rights with a dollar in return to the worst. At that time, the Union stresses that prior to the recording of the performance assessments as foretold, the administrative part will carefully study the experience of other countries and the impact on the quality of the reevaluation such as. correspondent in Britain It doesn't matter how much that food is called which explains the position of people whose work ability is for some reason not 100% if the state or employment life as a whole has no obligations when it comes to recruiting part - time or with flexible hours. Some people need e.g. in animals, and still others, some days may have 100% functional capacity but for the rest of the time only with 20% ability. Some will never be able to crash their fields in a job market. They also need to be taken into account. The situation of those living in a country where employment life is less varied than in the capital area is also to be taken into account. If we are serious about taking action that can help to reduce the number of people with energy prices, we should focus primarily on the increased social equation, making sure that everyone can live in financial security and live with dignity. The United States is entitled to raise the income market for 25 - year - old pensioners from 25 of them. K. every month to 100 you. K. In the number of steps between 2018 and 22022, there is a change that only benefits those professional pensioners who have more than 25 incomes. K. a month, but it's a small smaller bit. There are about 14% of old - age pensioners who usually earn jobs and only one - third who earn money over this limit. Thus, the operation will not benefit the most lucrative pensioners. A bill to legalize disabled persons is now discussed on a welfare committee. The laws can include a great act of justice for this group if they are to be performed. A prominent aspect of this is NPA service or personal assistance. It is assumed that at the end of the period, in 2022, the subjects of the 172 service contracts will be implemented, but there is evidence that they are at the beginning of too few. Also there are signs that costors are very ill, i.e. the implementation of the contracts is of more value than expected in the plan. There is an uninterrupted conflict between the state's state and community on the cost of the State, and this may make a difference in the plan. When it comes to making contracts, service workers are also concerned about such matters, but there is a promise that they will be destroyed by a law that does not yet exist. A respectable president. Time flies as a shot. In terms of the topic of welfare committees in general, the Court's assessment of members of the United Nations is that it suggests a resolution of a financial programme for the years 2018/2022 would neither lay the basis for economic stability nor prepare the welfare benefits needed to promote social stability, balance, and better health services that the country has described tens of thousands together to be complete government priorities. That declaration, the demand for the public in Iceland, is not reflected in this financial program. Hv. paritaprevir The left green Steigur J. Sigfusson moved in the yesterday district a nuclear summary of the proposed proposal that Congress smell and end by saying that this was a hando-new document and that it should be flushed down the toilet immediately. Therefore, I agree with this rather than with the fact that our organization is an environmental class, we choose even more green ways and suggest that the financial program in the present form be placed in the paper-maker and that we accept a new program on the recycled paper, which will be considered primarily for those who are still involved; children's families, microdotalists, and the elderly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u135	Madam President. Thank you. In many respects, a member of the body of elders had a fine speech. I agree with very many of the things he was saying, especially when it comes to matters of disability. I think we have a job to do there, and we know the shame. On the other hand, I'm going to ask him to explain to me a little bit the adjustment proposed by the United States council representative, and I assume that all of the Group members of the United States are behind it. These are new taxes or tax increases over a total of 236 billion over a period of financial planning. I'm not going to discuss it specifically. Yet, it is a tiny disintegration. I notice it's about that. 54 billion on something called taxation on product and service, a change, should take effect from 2019 C.E. [[The president calls.]] What's that tax? What is this 13.5 billion tax every year? There are also 98 billion possessions. What cartels do people look to? [[The president calls.]] You must have it severed at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the inquiry. That's right, we in the United States have put in the broken program he's been studying. It's a pleasure and good thing to do. We put in a variety of transfers on income and income supplies. We watch to collect income from common resources. We make more money because of special taxes, high income taxes. There are other steps we can take to get into steps, which may be a rather long matter to talk about right now, but I think it will make sense in the chart we have sent from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u137	Madam President. This is not clear in this overview, unfortunately, why. Senator. I'm just going to repeat the question: What taxes are being put on when it comes to product and service, 13.5 billion each year since 2019◯22022? There must be some tax you have in mind. I just want to know about it. I also want to know what 19 billion people are talking about in the first three years and then 20 and 21 billion in the second two years of growing property? That's got to be a lie. The Group of Group members must have made this clear, so we can see how practical these suggestions are. I'm just here to discuss that there's a chance of increasing property income. Although I don't see it, it's good to know where it should come from and how it should come from. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u138	A respectable president. I suppose that's what it is. A senator was here for a talk. paritaprevir It was her daughter, Oddný new Harðardóttir, where she listed it. I mean, I've got to be honest with you, but it's been working in a responsible way. Our U.S. Senate expert is Oddný Harðardóttir, and this is a full agreement within our council, we have a plan there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u139	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'm interested in discussing only my priorities because changes and how we feed them and all that. That's right, there's a little extra funding to be added when there's no more money left to make adjustments. The priorities of this too can be discussed fully because, for example, it is a matter of priorities. reports in a financial program that the main cause of disability in Iceland is job - related diseases. These include motor and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as stress-induced psychiatric disorders. People are about to fall off the job market because of disability, but at the same time, we have a financial program that puts very little money into preemptive work. They don't look at it. The labour market is just supposed to take care of all of this. There is no way we can prevent disability from occurring. [[The president calls.]] We may be able to reduce stress by shortening the hours we spend working. [[The president calls.]] I just want to hear what you're doing. A candidate feels that his priorities can be changed, whether this cannot be changed by a change in priorities and a change in ideologies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u140	Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for the inquiry. Of course, we miss it in the budget, it's rather poor with new ideas, new paths. The assessment of performance has been subject to death without significant design. It is, in fact, very controversial as it can be easily distorted. We are concerned that this is not sufficiently prepared. Of course, things have developed in a job market, so the workweek is getting shorter. She has done so in our neighboring countries. I assume the same way will be developed in Iceland. Prevention in general, both health and social systems, is therefore of little concern to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u141	Madam President. Yes, we pay very little attention to prevention. An increase of 4% is expected to be known as the People's Health and Health Administration. Less than one third of that amount goes to human health, prevention and monitoring. It's just really weird, considering the situation we face ahead of us. Hv. A senator speaks of the performance assessment, which is probably one way the government is going to expand energy, i.e. getting people more into the job market. At the same time, however, the unemployment period is being cut short. I think it's so weird. What are we making out there? Is it not likely that people will just end up with their societies? It's always some kind of capitalization move. It's always being pushed from us from one field to an excel-tail to another, right now from the state to the countryside. I'm a little worried about it, and I'd like to hear about it. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u142	A respectable president. You will agree that prevention is effective and important. Governments by government, health ministers by health minister have put this first, and the government's terms of the past governments have been stated that prevention, prevention, and these factors should be of value. But they're running the runt. Humans don't have patience. Of course, doing a predestination job is far more effective than anything else. That is true in many areas. Let's take the psychological service, the mental treatment of behavior, which they agree is an overexhaustible way. It takes more time, but it produces much better results for longer periods of time. [[The president calls.]] We need to be much more aware in this regard. Of course, financial initiatives in the workforce are expected, that's a good point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u143	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the council for his speech, where he was especially involved in the legal affairs of the welfare committee. There are some questions I would like to ask him about that subject. First of all, hospital service. Hv. A senator took note only in his case that it would not be predictable that the need, the urgent need, of the land hospital would be met by any other hospital in the country. He named the hospital in Akureyri. I want to pray. A senator to explain to us whether he considers the suggestion made by his party here to be a minimal contribution to the need in the situation. On the other hand, I'd like to ask. A senator who made a program for patients' income. What a surprise it must be to know that there is no promise of the amount of payment left! I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament will see how much money is needed to meet what was promised? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u144	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Of course, the Landstainal hospital had a difficult time before the collapse of the economy. It was just for crowning the problem in the collapse. This is absolutely a minimal need for the hospital for a while. Of course, however, a requirement for the hospital must be made as well, making the most of the changes and arrangements. I think there's going to be a place, too. It's a minimum amount, but there's no money missing into the whole system, not just the Land Hospital. This has to do with each other, if health care makes it all together. [[The president calls.]] I don't have the numbers about how much this would all have to be, but we're going to make 35 of you. K. Which we believe is a direction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u145	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Hv. A senator points out that there is much that can be done to manipulate the health - care system. I completely agree with that for a long time. That's why I've suggested a change in plans for the last income plan to be adopted as a sugar tax. It was rebuffed despite scientific recommendation that it was important to use the tax system to reduce long - term health costs. This was completely incomprehensible at the time, especially in the light of Iceland's sugar intake. But I'm glad to hear that I feel that more senators are moving to this car. I'm very pleased with that. So I'd like to say, of course, that long term adjustments can be made, but we are in dire need now. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator how he feels about the suggestion of a greater part of the legal committee that a special political government over the Land Hospital must be considered. Because I know that it looks like more of the money committees don't want to recognize the need that obviously exists in a Land Hospital and plan to solve the problem that exists there by putting a political cover to the hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u146	A respectable president. Over the past few decades, or as a result, the government's policy has been to reduce the number of government governments and make channels between government officials in public systems, institutions, efficient institutions, and more responsible rulers in their work. Government policy has been to reduce the number of governments, rather than increase the number of them. As for the Land Hospital and the Government there, the National Hospital is a natural individual institution in the country, large and great, and much energy goes on to communicate with the Ministry and the information presented in this regard, it has been thought mainly as a professional government, as far as I understand it, to support the director. [[The president calls.]] But government policies have been reduced, not increasing, in number. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u147	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with him about the importance of our efforts to promote health care for the country and the importance of reaching out to people on health care around the country. We need to work at that. I'd like to ask the question in this context. A senator likes suggestions. In an effort to get health care professionals to work at clinics in a country where there is a shortage of workers, the panels of the Parliament to use the student loan system as an incentive. Then you could, for example. Gets a discount on student loans if you took yourself into an institution at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for the inquiry. Of course, it is a well - known arrangement from other countries to provide support in this regard. I'd like to take a good look at this, but Iceland is a different country than, for example. Norway. We need to evaluate where we are going to draw the line, which area to take out as peripheral areas. But I am convinced that this can affect and encourage especially young people in the country, which is what we want. I think that once people are settled in the country, most people will be comfortable there, and the chances are that they'll stick to more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u149	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A good answer from a senator. I wholeheartedly agree that, then, the first step is to identify the areas and find out where people are lacking and which territory needs such measures. Also discussed. A senator on the importance of new medication, and the need for us to stay, for example. not back from the rest of the North on the induction of new drugs. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: He's under the authority of this man. A member of the welfare committee that calls for increased cooperation with medicines, thus getting access to larger markets and new and better medicines, to reduce the risk of losing out because of approved drugs that would improve the quality of those to whom they need them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u150	A respectable president. It has now been a decade and a half since men began to shop for a common drug in all the states of the North. We haven't gone far, but it's going up as far as it's concerned. The minister and the Ministry have informed us about the welfare committee meetings. It's a damp way. Some agencies have saved up to 70% of the price of these joint purchases. There's a lot of money in a small country where there's a lot of pressure on the new drugs. We live here. I hope we can do this by paying for the street of new drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u151	A respectable president. I'm going to start by wishing to the highest. Secretary of finance, congratulations on his first financial plan, but I did not bring up the earlier discussion of this fine document, so I want to use this opportunity here. At the same time, I'm told that the celebration of its one year's birthday is restored today. There is good reason to congratulate them on this. In fact, I'd like to congratulate the entire government on being able to carry out this challenge, to put together a financial plan, and in a relatively short period of time. You see, it's a really cool book. The coat is not particularly beautiful, but the book is clearly meaningful. There's a lot of stuff gone over there. In fact, I have to say, when I finally got the opportunity to do a little more than just a little bit of this plan, I was very happy and proud that we were going to be in this place in the financial and vision of the future. In 2005, I took my place here as a deputy senator, a few years ago, and that was exactly the case with a financial committee for a while. That's where we were after 2nd. accept changes in the budget for 2006. I just had to slide over it a little bit. At that time, for example, we were deciding to make an additional donation to the Art Museum of ASVI about 1 million. We were putting 1 million more in the New List Museum, 1.5 million in the Art Museum of Sigurion son of Olafur, we were strengthening the activities of interested persons about 1 million more, strengthening the volume of 0.4 million, and so on. Yeah, and Iceland's Wrestling Association, we also raised a donation of 0.5 million. I certainly hope we here at the legislature and the budget have come out of this frame, that politicians sit and put half and one million more into the individual Šnitty, the gritty - excuse, the Supreme Court. A president - a small project, and I'm not trying to downplay them, for they're definitely all very nice and well done. However, I view it as more important to manage money on such projects. I've learned quite a bit in the administration business and I've worked on a long-term plan, both for business and for my community. I just think it's pretty cool that we've brought pills where we're set up assignments and goals. It's a schedule, it's time, it's a responsibility provider. And often in times, but not always, the cost is also within this framework. I can totally agree that we can certainly develop even further in the role of putting down costs on individual projects, but some of these projects are simply so that they may be part of our daily activities, and in some case, it would be a great deal for aggravate every member of that sector. I welcome this plan. I think we should use the great surveillance role involved in it and our opportunity here on the leg of the legislature team to monitor the Executive Director and watch that the objectives presented here are going to be accomplished. I see a lot of opportunities in this. Especially here, we're discussing the big movie, not some team. I think it's pretty important. Actually, I think a lot of people are bad. Congress officials have gone into the details too much and have gone even further in the process, in the autumn of the year when we deal with the financial laws ourselves. Here, though, is where we should look primarily at the big picture. Then it is, just as we have seen in this room, one of the larger cases of every government in which the policy is being set. It's just very clear in this financial program. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason did a fine job in his speech here yesterday. I'm not going to repeat all the points presented in that fine talk, but I'd like only to address these factors here: The cost to health will be more than 34 billion more real in 2022 than expected in the current budget of the year. The types of donations used by the disabled will be 14.4 billion higher. This year more than 3 billion will be spent at the university. Overall, in 2022 there will be spending on paint, except for the target cost of about 83 billion higher in actuality than in the current year. Looking back on our last year, the increase in another hundred billion is the sheer amount of investment. It is now that if you listen to the talks that have been delivered here, you might rather think that we had some kind of starving policy, I think that was the word I've heard most of the time here today. It may also be a little strange that the lndependence Party representative stands here in a pit and boasts of such an enormous increase in the amount of cohesion. But in the campaign, we made clear that we needed to place extra money in the infrastructure because of the position we have been in in recent years. I just want to review what was said in the case of more of the legal committee. I would especially like to welcome the changed arrangements in my dealings with my rural society. In fact, I think we need to shape that factor even more. There's a lot of opportunities to do that. But I'm sorry, you know, the old arrangement was just completely lost. I think most of the local authorities have agreed absolutely that a meeting was arranged with a financial committee, a attention. True, legal committees varied after they had organized a number of rural communities, and the list of prayers was provided. I think everyone agrees that this arrangement was not particularly good. Therefore, it is better to look at rural society in certain areas. But we can clearly improve in that. Most of the legal committees are listed in the Committee as critical of the process and the transparency. I can totally agree with that. I think we're on our way, but I'm sure we can do better. We're supposed to take advantage of that opportunity. The contribution of this committee to a greater proportion of the Member States has been made in which the Committee does not suggest a change in the synonym, but it reviews certain aspects that might be considered more readily. Actually, I think it's very good. I have felt that it is important to promote the independence of the legislature and our surveillance role. So I find these indications very important. I expect the executives to accept them. I would like to briefly review what we considered from the committees I have on. I have a seat for you. State Department. There we said, by permission of the President: A greater part of the State Department considers that although the increase in Iceland's contribution to development has not been in accordance with previous plans for the proportion of national production, Iceland's contributions have increased substantially in the real value of the past few years. In contrast, the majority of the Committee feels that it is important to make a targeted policy toward the United Nations goal of providing 0.7% of the nation's incomes for development cooperation. I think it's very important that we keep working that way. Of course, we review the importance of our interests being completely cared for in Bfenit and, of course, our embassy in Brussels and the foreign agency all need to keep an eye on and keep an eye on our EEA contract. Hv. A foreign press committee may have had a relatively simple task, since there are now no huge numbers of them. There were a little more of them on the environment and transport committees where I also have a seat. I'd like to make a little bit of a point that we specifically talk about cooperation with our rural communities, and we focus on the harmony between the projects entrusted to us and the revenues that are lost to rural society to carry out those tasks. As most people should be aware, I am also a member of the country. We have tremendous opportunities to improve communication between the state and the community, especially the executives. I think we're taking a big step, but it's very important to remember that when we're posting an assignment to the critical administrative level that the level of government is also going to need money. In fact, I think we've been overcrowding at times, and I don't think we've been clear enough at the edge of the line. What is the business of rural society, and what does the State have to do with it? Then I'm going to get into a little public transportation, which is now one of those projects that's not very clear. I think we all agree on the importance of public transport, but there's nothing clear about who to take care of them. Then we'll pop into our majority wing at night. The Environment and Transport Committee says that this budget cannot tie the government's hands so that it cannot decide to participate in projects on the so-called city line and the growth of public transport. We've talked a lot about public transportation at night. Environment and Transport Committee. We take our minds to the indications that were presented in the news reports of the union in the capital area. We reroute the importance of public transport and suggest that the government cooperate with the rurals on the vital task of building up a city line. The environment is also a major factor. We welcome a great coalition of six Ministers on Iceland's climate action programme and promote the government's activities. The lack of money on that project has been credible. That may well be so. As with any project, no doubt, because looking at each one of them can see an opportunity to make even more use of it. But we must also look at the bigger picture. In the environment, I think it's very important that we work this together with many advisers. This is not just a project of the Environment Ministry, although it is responsible, but it is essential that the environment become part of the daily operation and other activities of all advisers. This is our biggest case in the years to come. I'd also like to come on a little bit of a show that hasn't been much discussed here, Internet security and electronic departments. On page 18. 202 of the budget says, with the permission of a president: The emphasis on communication is now on Internet security. The implementation of network and information security policies has not been overall financed, only funding for the assessment and analysis of the safety status of the topic fields. Of course, I would have liked to see all the funds, but somewhere I need to begin. I think the reviews and checks are very good, and this chapter provides a very clear objective for what we are going to achieve because we are talking about the development of Internet security according to a model as the University of Oxford is helping us to introduce ourselves. But I'd still like to sharpen the development of this important matter, and then maybe I'm talking more than just Internet and information information, but information technology and electronic administration as a whole. You see, we were very prominent in that area, but we have gone back in comparison with many foreign countries. This is especially an opportunity for public management. I've been talking for a long time, and the group I work for, that it's one of the most important things. When we decide to protect the public tax on a number of good and urgent jobs, the most important things are that the money is well spent and that we may not have double efforts and profits as much as possible. Amazingly, I haven't even filled up in time, and I've heard a lot of senators talking about that clock flying completely. But because it's just getting a little late and I know there's a lot of people on the rosary, I don't think I'm going to compete to finish my good time, because I saw that I'm going to get a chance to come up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u152	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's jealousy. As noted there, she is an interested woman over the city line, and more than that, she has worked hard to achieve it. Therefore, I would like her to have her opinion of why no money is expected to develop a financial line despite being mentioned in the government covenant. It's also about the transportation I know why. A senator is also an enthusiast who has worked hard to find out: The cost of transportation for 2017 is worth over $33 billion after a further donation, but the financial program actually adds $1 billion to the box where the largest part of the addition is to make the additional addition of 2017 permanent. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear her say something about the two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of these questions. In my opinion, it is very normal that the financial programme does not specify the amount of money on the city line as important as this project is, for no agreement with rural society has yet been reached. That is because this wonderful work has just not yet been accomplished. It's getting to that place right now. To date, this has been primarily an analysis and strategy project. The rural communities are still in the phase, and they are now working to change the regional and main systems of the rural community to set aside space for the city line after working on a regional organization that has identified the benefits of different transport workers in the capital area. There is reason to stress that this analysis clearly indicated that national benefits are more practical for us to attack the urban funding line because other advantages are simply much more expensive and bring less results. [[The president calls.]] I have to answer the other question in my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u154	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. However, I wondered about a financial program that is attracted to funding for the next five years, that despite the fact that the project at the city line is no further than it is now, whether or not. A senator would not have considered it preferable to see here in a five - year plan more subsidence on money to this important project. I know why. A senator is deeply interested in its progress. In a later answer, I wanted to think about what was wrong. Haraldsdóttir You're gonna find out about the history of a Union member of the United States of America. Many of the information about the relationship is critical of the financial agenda. One thing I wanted to ask. A senator is about the housing support. It says, with permission of the president: ▪ The brochure on housing is of little value and does not reflect the importance of this group of languages, which requires coordinated action on the part of the state and rural society. [[The president calls.]] I want to know what she thinks about that part of the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u155	A respectable president. I would not have stopped having any money planned on the city line on the financial agenda. However, it is specified there in a text. As I said before, the city line has not come to the point of a contract, and it is not clear what the government will put on this big project. But I sure hope it will happen very soon. Therefore, in our opinion, we think that the next time a financial plan is put into place, it will be a special part of this project. As to transport in general, we have talked about the need for additional transport resources. That's for sure. A secretary of travel has brought interesting ideas to the fore, how we can finance further building. We agree in our committees that it is a positive matter and that it is good to consider it. As far as housing matters are concerned, I think that many good steps have been taken in this regard. I've been telling myself something about the housing issues of this piano. I expect we're achieving a certain success in this, and I think we're lowering the client in these cases. [[The president calls.]] It will be largely built in the capital area over the years, with quite some of it being rented.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bryndís's granddaughter's Haraldsdóttir for coming and participating in the discussion. It's very important, not just that she's here as a senator, but that she's had a lot of experience with the state government. I would be interested to hear a response. A senator, only in her speech, addressed the great criticism that comes from the European Union on the lack of consultation with the local government level. I think this must be particularly serious for the Independence Party, since it is the largest category at the rural level, in the greater part of all rural society, except for one in which there is no party local government, in the Southwestern district, even though they are in the mid-City of Reykjavík. A very serious comment is that financial programmes are not in harmony with those of rural financial programmes that simply cannot work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u157	I must begin by saying that we independents are now in the greater part of all the rural areas of the southwestern district. [[Up front.]] Yeah, the dress is a different arrangement. [[Up front.]] So let's not get the crown out of our magnificent district. But as I came into my speech, I think there is a great opportunity to add even more communication with my rural society. They have been very critical of long - term contact with the State. That's probably for many reasons, in part, because we're here at the risk of accepting various bills without making sure that they're too expensive or thinking exactly how they're going to be carried out. I now experienced the most critical of the relationship's numbers. It was very effective in the rural administration laws to set clear financial guidelines for rural society on their survival. The law on public finances goes even further. Achieving this goal would require some adjustment period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u158	A respectable president. When we already have agreed budgets for our communities and they are not taken into account, either in financial policy or in the government financial program, we must simply be deceiving ourselves with regard to the results. This is not some future expenditure, but it's already agreed on by the local communities. We could certainly discuss it here for special and considerable longer than once. I'd rather use this chance at this brief time and ask the senator, who I know is an expert on public transport and was the president of the Bus. In the Southwestern district, we have agreed to stress the city line. But it shall be acknowledged that in the last days, I have had some questions about how my rural society will provide financial support, with its subsidies, and also a suggestion that in the next 10◯20 years, we will see a basic transport revolution, as stated by former Congressman Frosti Sigurjónsson. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it is more in the spirit of the changes. A senator introduced those who turn to the motion services of disabled people on the bus where you simply order the trip, like you do through Uber, elevator, or Didi, the carriage comes to your home and takes you to the exact place you're going to take the place where you're waiting at the stop stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u159	A respectable president. In fact, I think both of these questions could require a special discussion, and it might be a very long and fun thing. I'm gonna start with the second part, but I'd like to first thank you for the compliment I get here for being an expert on public transportation. I like it when people go to such a future trial, like the former senator of the forward party. It's been in the discussion right now about the city line. I share that vision, I'm sure there'll be self-sustaining cars in the future. I actually think it's a little further, but some may predict, but I remind you, it's quite a bit about public transportation being self-involved. Maybe we'll see a much greater trend there than in the private car. So I don't think that self-driving cars will replace public transportation, because every community we watch to build public transport. There will be a great opportunity to reduce the number of parking lots when it comes to public transportation and similar arrangements, such as water. A senator described earlier. I think it's a good prospect, and it's very exciting. [[The president calls.]] But it does not relieve us of our responsibility to have to build up a special space for public transportation in the capital area, for it is a necessary task for us in relation to all of the programs that our rural society has for the development and development of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u160	Madam President. I appreciate your speech. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. That's right, the old distribution system is certainly incompetent, and the new one is probably better through a national budget and what goes with it. But does this document meet the minimum terms of the state's budget? Let us establish one by one the count of its share of omnipresent so the wonders will be seated, to be quoted by another. Counts 'em out. A senator that most of these institutions are wrong? And another thing: number av. A senator that this five - number line at the end of each of the 34 chapters of the program, with an increase or decrease between years, gives reason to evaluate the funding of its targets?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. Yeah, I really like this way of doing this work and that we're in the future. Me and what. A senator sat on a network of environmental and transport committees and came to our home a few guests, just a representative of the institutions who spoke of the possibility that this document had quite a problem. But the main reason is that we are looking at the bigger picture. We're not in the budget where money is shown to the individual institutions. It may not be surprising that so far the institutions that have visited members of Congress and expressed themselves about the budget do not have the details on how their cases will be handled. I think we're going through a bit of a transition, and the financial agenda is not meant to see exactly what individual institutions will get but the topic, as well as the goals set in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u162	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. I don't think the institutions were looking for their budgets. I think they were transparent. Not at all. The environment. That's 300 million. K. surgery between 2018 and 2020. Otherwise, there is a 1.5 billion increase. Less than a billion in 2017/2018, less than 300 million 2020, and more than 300 years 2021,2022. These are some of the building costs within the table, so the actual increase over five years is 1.6 billion to the environment, the most important of which have been said. Then I'll ask her, "Do you think so?" paritaprevir Is this true of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir in keeping with today's demand to fulfill the Paris convention? And I don't expect private people to make up for what is missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u163	A respectable president. I think I forgot to state in my reply earlier that when agencies came to our house and visited us at work. The environmental and transport committees were like the expected majority of committees that no one asked for less money. Most people said they needed more money. Whatever it is. A senator covered the budget of budgetary contributions to the environment, within which natural projects are involved. There have been explanations of this, some building projects are in progress that will end over a period of time, and that will not be fully funded for next year's work is over. I can also say, as I can say about other things, there could be more money in it. But if I had any responsibility to say that I wanted more money in the environment, I would also need to say where I was going to take it. I reviewed in my speech that I feel that this is one of our most important factors, especially that the Ministry is working together to do this. I'm not necessarily sure that the group of paintings such as this may have to cost a considerable or considerable amount of money from the state box. Rather, we can achieve considerable success by changing our practices and bringing it into most of our careers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u164	Madam President. It was a great speech by then. A senator and a lot of good things in it. I would like to ask: Now I have two comments from the committee. Senator. Another says, with president's permission, at the end: The above points support the majority of the Committee's income and pay line of budget of the government and encourage its approval to take into account the above - mentioned views. Even there was a number of them. the need to add more money to the environment and infrastructure, communication and more. And then there is the second review. A senator writes under a very similar wording, with the permission of a president: The more part of the State Department points to the budget committee to consider the above points... These include structural development and ability for our embassy in Brussels. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: In view of the fact that there is no changing proposal from the greater part of the legal committee, it seems that this is not the case. A senator's claim that this was fulfilled, as stated in the committee's opinion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u165	A respectable president. Now, I have to start by clicking on the fact that you definitely meant more of the committee. [[The point is, did it.]] Yeah. You see, I'm still going to make sure that I'm still on top of the environment and transport committee. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I also mentioned in my talk that it is very important for me to look at what is presented here to us from the Commission. In this regard, we do well to consider whom we would especially like to be seen. In this we are not necessarily saying that there should be more money involved. Rather, we want the minister to look at the budget to emphasize the importance of the project under it. In case of what? The situation is more complex than that because we have a transport strategy that is not fully funded. It is clear to all, and it has been clear for quite a while. There, a minister has spoken to us about new solutions that we wholeheartedly support as to being discussed and considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u166	Madam President. I remind you that it was one category of independence, that I recall, which was against the full - scale transport program. Anyway. I happen to agree with that. A senator that there are many benefits to new laws on public finances, but much has to be done to make things worse, even worse. The reviews are natural to the budget board, but not the highest. Minister. These prayers may have been canceled, except for what the institutions still do to the committees, just instead of once making financial contributions, they come into the budget twice and then a financial plan, but when this happened with the old song, there was a certain demonstration that it was known which institutions came and asked and how much. At least the nerve pool was in front of everyone. I'm sorry. A senator is better off seeing all of this happen inside councils, since it will never appear to us at the council or anywhere else?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u167	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with that as a dog. A senator mentioned at the end, do I like it better? Then I'm just going to refer to what I said. I'm afraid we here, the budget, the legislature, are in the big picture, but not like in the examples I read when a budget committee was deciding to raise half a million or one million to a single playmate or a wrestling partner or what it is now is. I would like to trust the European Commission to assign funds to institutions and projects provided they are subject and in agreement with the financial goals set out in the budget. And then I forgot to come into what we had said in our opinion at night. The Foreign Affairs Committee and I would like to come on, that there we are for the purpose of talking about the protection of Baltrexit, which is a very important matter. Here, we may first stress the fact that this is where the focus of our foreign service is to lie. We do not feel that we are about to contribute to the increase of one or two employees or what they should be. There we trust the professionals in the emergency. [[The president calls.]] This important matter is emphasized.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u168	A respectable president. I'd like to complain a little bit about the answers to a respectable president. I sit here in the back and have a good view of it when people in front of me ask for an answer. I was quite ahead of some members of the council sitting in front of me asking for an answer. I also find it interesting to ask a respectable president when to start asking for an answer, because this request was asked for an answer before what. A senator had come to the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u169	You can ask for an answer after you have started.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u170	Madam President. This is an important debate over which, for days, the U.S. government arrangement of unsatisfying Congress. This may be the case at times. Most of us don't see very few members or any member of the board here. It's not what we want to see. I can't see any better than outside the highest. Ministers here are one or two members of the council, and this is a cause of great joy. The purpose of the State budget is to include adjustments, long-term financial support and efficiency. It's presented here for an umbrella of self-sustaining and vision, to quote two of the government's mottos. But that is not really the case. Rather, in view of this plan, the terms inequity and inequity of the people's well - being could be mentioned in the light of the situation. It has many good objectives, but in order to achieve them, the government's income needs to cover over the current budget and the financing of the government budget must be clear, which it is not, when it comes to the first degradation to issues. The groundwork for the program must be solid and in the public interest, which is essentially rift and in the favor of a small percentage of the population. I'd guess 10 percent of the people. Penalties for five years, i.e. The box, we see in the budget of 2017, plus one line of numbers, i.e. A few of the money divided over a five-year period of the schedule. I've called this the magic line to each of 34 lawsuits. This line alone, you see, we must use to evaluate a national budget to five years of age, taking into account our current expenses. You can see what's taking place every year and where they cut down. At first glance, five tender years appear, and this vision is strengthened by the review of these more than 30 cases. And why is the government budget beautiful? What does the frame say about that? Yes, there is an inaccessible 41.5% charge by GDP. These are key issues of progress based on positive or negative economic rhythms, such as some physical laws or even false laws of nature. There, the newcomerism is protected by the welfare system, transportation, and most of the other groups, even the high schools of the country and the university. The underdevelopment has become an excuse for privatization in the artificial clinical development, cohesion of Technical Schools and Annual Schools, and prospectively the most private transport workers with high costs for all rural society's disproportionateity. All of this is clear, specific, and open - minded political goals, political economics. This is a continuing check for increased inequities, more poverty, and its contrast, increasing wealth, with plenty of money ahead of all reasonable evaluations. A respectable president. How do we fat a government budget in a way that would be a real improvement for most people, by some sort of social method? We start funding among rich people, big stock people, and large companies using public resources. Green expenses and resources may be applied for services and access to nature, e.g. with a comet. So we use the taxes and the pay system to the limit, not the way many right men try to blame us for the others, not by taxing our homes in general or by our businesses in general, as the weather shows - not by obtaining financial support somewhere, as is the case. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon said here yesterday. No, this isn't right. We believe, however, that there are a number of billions of dollars a year, but mostly in successful citizens and prosperous companies. It's a step-up from year to year. This is in fact, rather than reducing the number of taxes by 13 billion, as is currently done, creating a huge need for money across the country. The increase in income is not an automatic check for expansion if funds are placed in the country's chosen welfare, educational and transport projects. Reductions in the annual payoffs should not be a serious problem for tens of thousands of people. You can slow it down. Now it's time to reflect the national financial programme on the environment and transport committees where I sit. I'm going to start with the review of more than one part of the environment and transport committee, i.e. The members of the council, along with a look at two groups of cases of three on more than one page. I'm gonna start with transportation and communications. There you will agree with all the financial standards of living together. The diagnostic work to be considered is considered, the effect of any uncertain proposal. It adds that the majority support: ▪... ideas on solutions such as government co-operation and private resources, which have included transport and rural management, and the main traffic benefits to and from the capital area. So they say: Rather privateisation with the prescribed roads against which the communities are opposed. ▪ The more part welcomes urban development plans and further emphasises that there will be room for the establishment of the State to finance the project in cooperation with rural society... In other words: The city line is supported but, as shown in the case of the day. At this point, it is absolutely unnecessary to mention where to take this money; it is not even a powerful tool, as it was shown. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. Then I come to the environment of this majority party. That's seven lines. It says, by permission of the President: A more significant part of the Committee considers the need for environmental issues to be increased in the years to come and emphasizes the importance of funding following the increase in government emphasis, including to achieve climate goals so that Iceland can live up to its commitments under the Paris Convention. I mentioned this in answer to why. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's jokes. There is no record in this committee's list that much of the funds it is expected to be missing, at least As far as I'm concerned. It is quite clear that 1.6 billion, aside from the construction costs for guest living and other buildings, are actually far beyond the target when it is observed, in addition, that 2% of the institutions that fall under the Environment and Resource Ministry and that contributions to forestry, which have been cut down half of the time and by collapse, are not listed. No matter how people think about it, it's very strange that the majority of people view matters so delicately, the environment. Unfortunately, I consider this opinion to be some sort of Rubber-Tasan, which looks good with its fake muscles, but inside is little more than artificial strength. Then I'd like to compare this with a minority opinion from this same committee, which handles these matters better and explains much better what the real need is, including environmentally. Madam President. In the subsequent five years of this obligation, word that fell yesterday may be referred to as an impressive increase of about 81 billion in Kingdom pay. It was a administrative body member who mentioned it. In fact, it combines investment and business, but it is the conversation of all these 34 magic lines, while the fragmentation shows that it is 16 billion a year, compared with the annual budgets of 700,700,800 billion each year. Two, two, two, two, two, two, two, three, that's all hell. When men are beating themselves over this, you ask yourself: " Is it really normal for the advancement of the state in a good way to neglected infrastructure, 2◯2.3% for increase? I don't think so. But back to this minority list, the review of the 1st smaller part of the environment and transport committee, which has two members of the branch in the left green. It is shown in transport for five years that there is a change of 5.6 billion. That's a small cut-off of 2020-2021 to 51 billion. Energy increases to 263 billion; cuts 30 million during the first year of 2017,2018. In the environment, I've traced 300 million. K. the increase in surgery and 1.6 billion. There's a 2.5 billion rise in rural and regional government. If you add these figures together, there are 9.96 billion, which is the increase compared to the budget, which is shown in these magic lines, these little lines that appear at the end of each chapter. This is 10 billion in five years, i.e. after 380 million. K. the damage of the state budgets to these four causes of more than 30. This is what we are in the context of the environment and transport committee. So we need to give a review of whether we consider this to be sufficient: 5.6 billion on transport and telecommunications, 236 million on energy improvements. One thousand thousand thousand billion dollars. An additional 2.5 billion in the environment and an additional 2.5 billion. addition to rural and regional administrations. Maybe that's the only group you feel is some kind of light. The rest of us feel we're far from all clear. No excuses can be offered or explanations that there is no closer way to discuss what this goes on or that these amounts cannot be increased by any means necessary. Of course it's possible, as I've described before. It's just a matter of where the money is searched or if they're looking for a head. In addition, it is justified to consider factors that support goals in the above - mentioned areas. That is especially true in the field of research, innovation, and knowledge, and then the university university that has seven universities. As far as I can see, that's worth about 120 million. K. mean improvement, i.e. to research, innovation, and knowledge. So that's 120 million. K. every year during the five years. They already put money on it, but I'm looking for the increase. You can imagine what the demand will be for a period of five years, let's say in the environment, for innovation, for research, and for knowledge. If you think 120 million. K. every year they go wrong. I couldn't see better than 660 million. K. There is an increase in donations between 2017 and 2018 to the latter category, i.e. is the university. This will take place between the years and the year when there will be an increase in the last 20213/42022. This is an excuse for reducing the number of college students. I can again take into account the institution I know of a bit, which is the National Science Institute for the University of Iceland, which includes. To provide for a natural threat in Iceland. These devices are out - of - date and cannot be bought. Two eligible professors cannot be identified, and there are tens of millions of cuts in the teaching and research work of this major and important institution. This is a whole thing; this is the case with very many institutions, organizations, or whole schools at this stage, far and wide throughout the country. So there is no way to excuse this, either because there is no money or that the budget won't allow it or whatever it is that man has said here on the platform. We've done so many times that inside this is a building of a guest room and additional hall of the University of Iceland. In fact, money within each of these areas is much lower than the sum of hundreds of millions of dollars. In contrast with the objective of the State budget and its purpose, it is clear that the aims of the programme are not met based on an estimate of additional financial resources. Full figures in the four topic areas discussed here do not meet minimum requirements for further contributions to a five-year plan in the time of rapid climate change, neglected infrastructure, a funded welfare system, and a demand for intensive development. In most of the plan, where the basic information on the gross divider of budgets is missing. There is a lack of separation of investments and cost of operating and information that makes it easier for transparency to take the next step in making money. And why is that? Yes, it is because if we are to evaluate whether these excellent goals, many of which, there are really practical, real, visible, that they reach reality in five years, the great magic line that comes in the back of each chapter is just a chicken fat. It's enough to expose the flaws. It is not enough to help us see whether these goals really can be achieved or not. The overall outcome of this review, which I hope was sufficiently clear, is this and I'm going to read, by the permission of a president, from package 14: The political economics of the government classes, the basis for financial programs, are inversed, associated with social well - being, sustainable development, and the prosperity of the nation's majority. She's supposed to be turning down.How many are there? It's that simple and clear. In the next talk, I will discuss some of these 16 journals, which are covered by four issues facing an environmental and transport committee. I would like to have a proper president sign up for my speech in speech number two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u171	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson made learning and their financing of the financial program his subject. We have considered many in our talks today that financial programs make it clear that the increase in these issues is primarily in concrete. We are extremely concerned about the status of Iceland's University and University in Iceland, which are expensive. At the same time, the world is shrinking. People go from country to country to educate and seek other jobs, and Iceland is in fierce competition with other countries in many ways. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if he has, for example. read a review from the Society of Industrial Affairs. On page 18. 3 notes that the organization is concerned that severe offenders are in the collection and publication of educational and humanized data and that there is no financial strategy to correct this. We have an obligation, according to the EEA Convention, to conduct studies such as, for example, the European Union. - I'm not gonna say it, it's in a foreign country, but it's part of the review. The organization points out that this situation is urgent. They stress the increase in the number of students who choose to study and to study. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has any evidence in a financial program to correct this situation. I can't see it, the firms of the industry criticize it, i.e. Regarding the policies that governments are going to take in this area
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u172	A respectable president. Although I'm used to digging in the law of the earth and trying to analyze something, I don't find anything in this financial program about it at any given moment. A senator mentions. However, I have some opinions about engineering, and it's a natural big issue here that we've neglected in some ways for a long time, furthering education, increasing the share of young people in education. What is now facing is that engineering is moving more and more on the business itself, with a streamlined approach on the study, abbreviated, increased profits, faster learning careers, less professional management of the individual industry, i.e. The master system is to be eliminated, and not only that but also that of reducing legal values, leaving a considerable number of industry legalized. All of this makes education here in a very dangerous place, in my opinion, when it comes to content and organization. We also see how the trade schools have gradually been moving on to a private person, who I am not necessarily criticizing as such but only the arrangement. But in this case, this government plan is almost blank, and I advertise the changed tactics there. If we are to promote education in general, this is not limited to book studies or university studies, especially with regard to education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u173	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator obviously agrees there. I would like to continue with the review of the Industrial Association, which speaks of innovation and such research. In his speech, a member of the body spoke about the exact subject. On page 18. 3 says, with the permission of the president: A major interest in the industry and the competitiveness of Iceland is the better working conditions for innovation. It is not only a matter of looking forward to mental studies but it also requires research, evolution, and innovation based on more advanced articles. In addition, financial programmes have little effort to address the need for specific practical research and innovation activities to increase production in national production and services. The last words of the review are: ▪ The importance of building trust in long-growing, competitive working conditions must not be lost. It seems that people say one thing in a campaign for innovation, education, training, engineering, and all of this. But there is no national financial program that suggests that governments are actually going that way. I'd like to hear a point of view. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u174	President. I thank you for your answer. I mentioned in my speech that between years of increase - there are hundreds of billions of people, I am determined to say, research, development, and innovation in Iceland. It's achieved tremendous success. I'm not talking about by the New World Translation Centre of Iceland. I'll tell you, when I was doing a TV show a few years ago, 500 people were working in a 50-sized innovation company, like a giant elf, so it means a hell of a lot to us. But when governments are unable to add a year from this demanding environment, only 120 million a year, that is, in effect, the best word for it. I agree completely with what. A senator who has to record a different procedure. This budget is critical not only for small amounts but also for not having a clearer objective compared with the amount given.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for his speech. Hv. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee, spending some of his time talking about that topic, I would be interested in talking to him about, i.e. ... ofexplanmentalcontractions toward the city line. I also know what to do. A senator has given much attention to climate change in general and to concern about what is happening with the environment. I have so far been more positive about the city line, but I've had more thoughts about the past few days in which there have been indications that there may be a mistake in going into the tens of billions of investments, we're talking about 50 to 100 billion investments in the city line at the same time that we're now going to see a revolution in the production of self-employing cars, which could be used in other ways. Instead of spending long periods in parking lots waiting for their owners, they could be added to others, which is comparable to what we see being done in a new form of tourism for disabled persons. Hv. A senator or his party has a place in both Reykjavík and Mosfellsville, which are one of the rural areas that highlight the city line. Has a what? A senator himself is wondering if it is proper to look forward to enormous investments when we expect that the next technological revolution will change the use of cars when it comes to our daily lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u176	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, the city line is said to be somewhere between 70 billion and 150 billion. Depending on whether a person uses a light train, a trolley, a car, or a bus. Self-sustaining cars? I'm not well at home with that kind of stuff, but I'm comfortable at home with what turns to the fuel. It is of utmost importance if we are talking about the environmental properties of these self - driving vehicles. And whether it's electric, I don't think it's gonna be necessary. It's just that there are self-driving cars that are of the generation of cars we use, so I don't think that there's much to do in the environment. Besides, we must not forget that private cars take a lot of space, and the street is a heavy catch, so I've been limping under the city line from now on. In time, if you are actually going to make an informed decision, you must show the person the account holder, you must create models that are drawn into the shapes I am talking about, maintenance the roads, changes in them, the cost of the city line itself, space costs, and countless such items that may be made up of three to four models with three to four price targets, and then you can make a more informed decision about the city's benefits. Although I haven't had a meeting about the city line, I've been trying to read about it. But it's such a first attempt to make a comment, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u177	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this. I think it's exactly what the senator points out, about the importance of where the power comes from to drive the cars, and I guess it's also the city line. This is one of the points that have been made. If we look at Norway, which has been very likely to introduce electrical vehicles, we are not sufficiently concerned with encouraging Icelanders to buy electrical cars even if we have very cheap energy. But one of the things I've been really worried about - and the reason I mention it here is that a pack of whales. A candidate is in the majority of the unit's level, and as a result can be expected to have some effect on it - the emphasis is on using the deposit on land sales, which would mean even higher housing prices, which I don't think we need, in order to finance this project. I have not seen this since the evidence that has been submitted to the city line, since people look to this vision of changing transport. [[The president calls.]] I'm really worried that there may be some information here that we're going to be in front of in 10 to 15 years and that we've made the wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u178	Madam President. Thank you again for the question. Only about Norway. A comparison of Oslo/Regavik is not realistic because of the fact that both of them have underground metros, a very good bus system, and they are actively inducting electric cars, certainly. We can learn something from it. But the main issue is that if a city line is created, it is, of course, electric, whether it is a vehicle with a bicycle or some kind of light train. With the wood and funding of this whole thing, that's exactly what I was talking about when I was talking about the models. Well, it's going to have to come into all the city's walls, how it's gonna be financed. Well, I haven't seen it implemented. If we're going to do this on an environmentally good deal, we're going to have to pull into this probably 101⁄215 variables, including the financing itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u179	Madam President. I wanted to come into something that, in a way, has something to do with electrical cars and electrical vehicles and automation of electric cars but in a way that you wouldn't expect. It is obvious that when computers are increasing driving systems in the same way that computers operate in hospitals and water - power activations, and more, their security is becoming more important national security to us. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir In the early days of the day of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, however, the ideas of Internet security had not been financed. I understand this has been discussed only on the environment and transport committee, but I'm afraid it has not been able to monitor the Committee adequately. I've studied the reviews given to the committee, but I don't feel that it's done enough there. I'd love to, if anything. A senator could only explain how the management of Internet security and information has been received in the Committee, especially in the case of funding and why they were suspended. In the past few weeks, we have seen massive attacks on computer systems in many parts of the world that seem to have even happened to some extent by our allies, so it is clear that we cannot trust anyone in this context. The talk was discussed, and to what extent? What Is to Do? Why isn't this financed? Well, maybe. A senator told me?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u180	Madam President. I appreciate that question. This is quick. Yes, we know from the media, and our limited knowledge that computer systems in general, whether cellular or electrical, are threatened. However, we haven't discussed this in any way I know about the Environment and Transport Committee. I've been gone for a week, but I don't know it. I think we've been busy with a lot of things I call big cases, now I don't belittle it, but cases that have established an assembly range from the government. and try to take care of them, and we're not even getting to a frame plan, let alone. We just haven't found out. But I simply take this as a positive criticism, thinking that a environmental and transport committee needs to be turned over. Of course, this does not take place in a national financial program. I can't see in my head that computer security or anything like that is being handled to some degree, though it can't be helped. But I would like to use a few seconds to remind you that electric vehicles will probably never be the only solution in Iceland's private vehicles or electric vehicles. It's meth and alcohol and hydrogen and spirit, all of this is going to happen. There will always be fire machines that can use these environmental fuels. We can make it more or less ourselves. And the assessment, both of garbage dumps and of the same, simply by making appreciated. In itself, with the support of the state and the assistance of our private partners, we can be completely self-sustained when it comes to fuel, I would say, both ships and cars, and even some aircraft.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u181	Madam President. I appreciate that answer. True, this may not be done too much by considering these psalms on the Internet security issues in general. I've experienced a bit of a feeling that members of Congress are a little bit afraid of this matter, that's a big and complicated thing. Now I don't mean it as a criticism of a problem. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson believes that I believe that members in general are in a situation similar to that of the complex financial and such ones before a collapse. Now no one else dares but take a good look at that matter. But now we also have a program called the energy exchange that has been discussed here. The plan assumes that there will be a state aid, subsidies of a value tax, on a total of 9 insignificance. Cars. When I told our Norwegian colleagues back in the day, they responded by a slight giggle over our shortsightedness. But is this not something that we could try to take better care of in just such a financial program? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u182	Madam President. Thanks for the reaction. Yes, you're right, we should take care of this better. Then perhaps it is that at the General Assembly, we have come to the conclusion that we don't have a special service. This is a typical case in which expert services would be useful. I don't like security or computer. I suppose this applies to most members of the Environment and Transport Committee. We'd have to make it right. But as with the energy exchange program, there is a great need for money, as was shown in the minority of our members on the committee when energy exchange programs were scheduled. The little things there are even. Emphasis on still another 201 million electric cars, which is designed to help build up the small country in a country that is too small. But the rest of the fuel is really missing; the methadone, the hydrogen, and the biodisil. [[The president calls.]] It holds our big interests, just like the electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u183	A respectable president. It should not be surprising that the head of the welfare committee, the one being present, has been learning new practices and priorities, but this project is not necessarily very simple and often busy. One of the projects assigned to the Commission was to evaluate the government's financial plans prior to 2018,2022. As we have seen in the discussions about the plan, members of the Synod Committees were given this assignment, and later they wrote to members of the committee. The plan is, in fact, a total of 34 causes of heartburn, which contains 100 case categories and indicates the development of that frame for the next five years. It provides a goal for us members of Congress to assess from measures proposed in this document. The plan says, with President's permission: The programme provides goals for all topics. This programme aims to create a clearer context between professional objectives and the resources spent on individual topics. On the committee, I suggested that I study the goals set to determine if they were measurable. The role of the members of this review was - and I'd like to review some of the corneas from a meeting that we sat down, many members of the council, about our role, on the issues involved, and on how this strategy should be viewed as policy. Then I started my job. Our mission was to support the debate on the future vision of the party, to explain the objectives and standards, to determine whether the object of the seminar supports future vision and the main objective of the topic matter, and to determine whether priorities are correct. We were also allowed to see if the timing of action was practical, whether the criteria support the objectives, and whether the criteria were practical for daily work and government. So the assignment was quite large. I have been wondering, by listening to all the discussion that we had taken these goals and standards deeply, if I were not still in this work for an important and many topics that will be discussed with a welfare committee. I had a feeling I wouldn't talk about NPA today, I would still be diving in these cases. In view of the short time we had for work, the assignment was quite big. However, this food could not be held, and the committee was contacted by as many guests - we had 35 visitors to our home and four at a telephone meeting, I went over the meeting afterward - and it was extremely possible, but we would have had much more time. I know that we've learned a lot from this process and will give us more time and change the behavior of various factors in a year. I'm aware this wasn't the law. I was always reminding myself, since conversations often broke down, and I had to review my goals and actions again. This was merely a review to the budget board. I viewed it as my job to direct comments on them and to view it as a prework, because the work with budget would begin in the fall, and there I would not want to be as unprepared as I have been in this role. I began to realize that the work being done here would be very effective in our work on the budget in the fall. I saw my knowledge improved in these language fields and lawsuits, and in the institutions that hear them, things would change in my career as the chairman of this committee and the senator. However, some of the factors that we have seen to be needed are due to the unique circumstances that existed today after the years, with vast numbers of new governments looking for and a short period of time. I then adopt a criticism of the development of financial programmes in terms of dissociation and definition of the information presented there. Many of the visitors whom the committee received to meet with them during the process had much more detailed information and analysis of their own language groups. This made it harder for the committee to take sides with them. I would like to review some of the committee's opinions from a greater part of a welfare committee that I have heard a variety of viewpoints and would like to share our views. I'm gonna read it up and talk for a while. The review of a large part of the welfare committee: Since April 7 it is up to the petition of a legal committee. Consider the matter. The strategy is based on the government's adherence to the government's financial budget for the 2018◯22022, which is based on an existing financial policy for the 2017◯22022 and its conditions. - It's a pastry again. I'm gonna split it down a little bit and tell you what subject we were up to. There was hospital services, community health services, nursing and rehabilitation services, medicine and medical products, disability and the affairs of disabled people, affairs of the elderly, family matters, employment markets and unemployment, housing support and public health and welfare management. We discussed the matter with 35 people and four of us at a telephone meeting. And to mention that, we got members of the Ministry, both health ministers and social and equal ministers. We took the time to look closely at what they stated. We received numerous visitors from the Ministry of Health, both health and welfare. We had guests from Iceland's Medical Insurance, the National Institutes of Health, Development, the National Association of older Citizens, the National Association of older Citizens, the Department of Work, and the Hospital in Akureyri. As I described here, we tried our best to get over a number of topics and received not only officials but also organizations and opinions from the community. We first make it clear, in general, that we support financial goals. I'm going to say that when we got a presentation from the Ministry and discussed the focus and goals, they were happy with the way if you saw what was presented here as policy. Here are some issues we're going to work on. There was no strong criticism of the way things were going. Then I speak contraryly of all the members of the committee. The largest budget goes to welfare, it has been said here, and it is therefore clear that the topic areas of the welfare committee are enormous and important. In view of the short delay of the Synod Committee to give a review of the affairs of the budget committee, the Committee was not able to dig deeply into each topic field. It is evident, and they see it here, that I felt a bit guilty of it. I may be too willing to take a deep look at things, but I experienced that we did not have enough time to do so. But we did our best. Still, the committee emphasized some factors that reflect her comments. The majority would like to state that in the future financial plans will become more important and that they will always be required to appear no later than March 1. Then the regular committees would have had a longer reporting period and would have the opportunity to give a thorough discussion of the financial program. In particular, the Committee found criticism of rationality in the implementation of the programme. As I mentioned earlier, it was sometimes awkward to have the guests who knew much more about his language and position. This made it difficult for the committee to do that work. A greater proportion of the funds could be more clearly defined for each topic field. The amount of money that will go on the job is not clear, and it is important for the financial committee to look more carefully into numbers and to see if the measures outlined in financial programmes are effective. Once again: I viewed it as my job to redirect myself to a financial committee of the work I thought I couldn't do well. There was no time for such matters. The majority believe that it is desirable to be better divided into financial management budgets and the cost of individual investments in certain topic areas, which have been said to have been across the reverse. Despite the above observations, the majority of them stress that they understand that this is a group - not a matter of opinion and careful spending. When it comes to making budgets in the fall, the numbers of each case will be thoroughly addressed, especially in view of this. The majority of them express satisfaction by increasing expenses for welfare that are expected during the period. We are happy that we are expanding our donations. In view of the greater part, it is particularly important to establish a complete vision for future health care in Iceland. A well - being committee has already agreed to a proposal that it will be made, a policy for the country. Many factors in which health care costs will be improved, particularly in hospital care, extramarital health care, nursing and rehabilitation services, medicine and medicine, public health and welfare services. We talked about these topics. They want to tear apart and say, "There's not enough here, there's not enough there and not enough for this. But it's all playing. As we expand our health care, we are reducing the number of emergency services that are being drawn up at the Land Hospital, a service that is too much to attend. It'll help, it'll support. One result of another, and we are offering it in all areas that, overall, we will go in the right direction. The majority also stress human health, prevention and monitoring - this will have a tremendous positive effect on health - but will miss further division for these classes. The greater part encourages a financial committee to consider and see if the amount of money they take into these cases can be further divided. I see I only have seven minutes left. There are many such comments that came from us, since the plan was not clear enough, when it was found that there was not enough of the lawsuit, that the explanation was associated with public health. We wanted only a better view of the effect that this will have on us. It's impossible for me to stand here without discussing what was discussed in hospital service. There was a disagreement. The majority were generally satisfied with the emphasis and goals set out in connection with the topic of hospital service. The majority welcomes the primary objectives and measures that have been set and feels that it is well defined. I'm going to go, it's a little time, over our meeting with Land hospital. There was no doubt that we had an open meeting with the Land Hospital, and there was a view of the need for a clearer health - care approach. The budget is in a subject field that is not well defined, but it is not adequately defined who is responsible for what is to be done. This is where we were discussing from the McKinsey report, and at the meeting we discussed our concerns on the use and design. It is defined somewhere that 70% of the budget for a land hospital, I don't remember what it is, has a salary to do. Much of it is paid for overtime, but it is difficult to bring accurate numbers over the value of overtime. At a annual meeting, it was said that 600 million had gone to overtime, while others are more than a billion. This is what we need to deal with. We have to have a plan. We need to work together to do that. In the above meetings with the National Hospital, it also noted that in comparison with health care services in Iceland and elsewhere in the Northern States, the Ministry of finance used OECD data based on national bank accounts. It was then noted that the term "SHA standard" is commonly used in the OECD reports at a Gloance. The majority do not realize why the above data were used in comparison and are directed to the budgetary committee for special consideration. The majority trust that a budgetary committee may draw appropriate conclusions about the data to be used in this comparison. Once again, our comments and concerns are directed to the budget board, so this will probably turn up there. I've got three minutes left, and I just wanted to touch one point that's minor to me because we've somehow been misjudged, considering both the Congress resolution and the press. The chemical field of disability and the affairs of disabled people: The chemical field of disability and the affairs of disabled people are divided into five groups of languages, i.e. damage to social security law, social services, disabled people's issues, other disability payments, and the eco-efficiency of public pensions. In particular, the majority rejoices in equalizing a wide range of biofuels from 2007 in accordance with law No. 113/1990 on insurance. At the same time, the greater part of their enjoyment of plans for simple, flexible, and transparent disability-fuel systems of social security will be proposed to improve groups and all other pension workers will have the same impact on the amount of money they earn without regard to the kind of income. - It's taken straight out of the plan. The majority rejoice that there is a bill that legalizes the NPA, which has led to an enormously important step forward. However, further attention should be given to the implementation, capital, and access of rural communities. The majority also feel the need to consider that the ability to work as well as the recruitment of micro-organism in the programme and what funds to contribute to it. Clearly, increasing the growth of disability in a labour market would lead to a smaller budget for the seminary. So a major part suggests that a financial committee is particularly concerned with the ability to evaluate and validate the profession within this category. I've been criticized for what I am. The welfare committee considers this to be a savings procedure. That's not our word. We think it's important to get better information about the money that goes into this operation. Clearly, increasing the growth of disability in a labour market would lead to a smaller budget for the seminary. However, the tables felt that we lacked expenses, and we wanted an explanation. Of course, it affects income markets that more people are at work, less money goes to it, but we wanted to know which money is going to make it work, and make it right for the people. So a major part suggests that a financial committee is particularly concerned with the ability to evaluate and validate the profession within this category. We were told that we would need to consider how this would affect what would be presented to this subject. I just got one minute left and I'm sorry I can't go deeper into more of what's here. But it was very important to me. I'd like to draw out that this is where we were looking at our work with a responsibility and considering the work we've got at a budget in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u184	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty spoke for her speech, but she took the main interest in welfare matters. I'd like to ask specifically what she said about hospital service. Now, a large part of the increase in hospital service is about to build a new hospital, a good goal for us. A senator agrees, and I ask: A senator that uses this program meets the hospital's demand for more money? Or thinks so. A senator's need to do better? She knows this was the biggest case before the last election. Second, I'd like to ask you what. A senator feels that the suggestion of a greater proportion of the legal committee for a special political government over the Land Hospital, which is, of course, very unusual in public business today, would agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question of a plan to meet the Land Hospital and if it needs to be done better. Yes, we need to do better than we have to do it together. I'll just be honest with you about my experiences with a meeting at Land Hospital. Somehow, the National Hospital is on the defensive, and my experience is that he's in a position of conflict like this: There's more to it, we're doing more. It's very difficult. Someone needs to step in and put this together, define it better to make the most of it. Now I'm running out of time. I'll talk about the McKinsey report later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u186	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It describes how she experiences the defense of the National Hospital, that the government and the National Hospital do not agree. It's an experience. A senator, an experience we've noticed, too. As a result, the financial situation of the Land Hospital is long. She's not just since now, she's from the start of a budget in the hospital of 2003. The situation is also that with the 2007 law - approved system for health insurance, the funding of the private health - care system was changed, so the public system has been followed. Hv. A senator asks: " Does anyone need to step in to improve the communication between Land Hospital and the government? Hv. A senator is going to answer me how she feels about a proposal for control. Is it not just the big thing that the Landspians have been under attack to pick up from 2003, explaining the struggle as a dog? A senator here describes in his reply?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u187	A respectable president. I admit, I've done a lot of research and funding for the Land Hospital. When the largest cutout was in the crash, the expenditures dropped by 21⁄23 billion in two consecutive years. All I want to do is point out the McKinsey report. It's an assessment that everyone is quoting and is very important. The report repeatedly speaks of increased efficiency in business. I'm going to be completely honest: I'm the one who's been running around the Hall and presenting ideas about the government of the hospital, not on political grounds, but on professional grounds, that we put professionals in the business so the hospital director doesn't have to be in a fight, in a political fight, at a find out about money. He's not supposed to have to come down here to the House of Congress five minutes for a staging budget to beg money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u188	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I was a little surprised by this last answer. Does this not apply to all government agencies if we are to talk about some professional matter? I would now have thought that those who are in charge at the Land Hospital are just the professionals. Of course, all institutions are involved in a conflict of interest for their institutions. That's just the way it is. So I think it's very special. Although it's a lot of money, it doesn't change the fact that I think it's a bit of a lack of trust in the Agency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this DRG classification system. They're suggesting that the McKinsey report be followed by making use of the funds. Does a senator and the head of a welfare committee believe that the National Hospital really lives in a position where he can start using the DRG category system? [[The president calls.]] Because even of that. that the flow problem is so intense that we have not solved the problem so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u189	A respectable president. I agree that those in charge of the hospital now are professionals. Definitely. But it is my opinion that now, during the greatest development of the country's history, their energy, knowledge, and power are being new in the hospital. This is where they should be working on this efficiency discussed in the McKinsey report. Their knowledge should be there, not here at the Assembly Hall to talk to. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. That's my opinion. He's all right to talk to, but you know where I'm going. My suggestion is sincerely thoughtfully thoughtfully out of the hospital and where this remarkable knowledge is supposed to be. She's supposed to be there, not here in political battle. That's my opinion. With regard to the system: We tried to discuss this at the board meeting. I specifically asked about... [[The president calls.]] I'll pick it up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u190	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. This now sounds as if a certain lack of confidence is being expressed in the management of the Land Hospital. Because I believe the Landspians can well be in the process of doing internal jobs as well as doing other jobs, as the senator suggests they cannot. Thinking of building a home as we think about the hospital's internal activity. I just don't agree with that. I think it's something special. I asked the senator if she had specifically discussed this before the idea was made public with the director or the hospital director. Because it was very flat on many people. I ask along the way, does she think this applies to any other government agencies? That it is reasonable to put government over other government institutions, as is suggested here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u191	I was trying to write really fast. I'm just gonna say this again and again: it's far from distrust on my part. It's rather contrary. I trust those in charge of hospitals. They're supposed to be there. I want to see the son of Páll, the son of Matthíasson, succeed. That's what I'm saying right now. I'm going to state that I'm from another country. I don't know a hospital anywhere in my house, either official or private, who's not in charge. It's just my experience, my knowledge. When I see men trying to run hospitals and at the same time be in a political struggle for money, huge - I'm not talking about all the institutions. At this point, where there is such a call for hospital construction, health care, and we are building a new hospital: the power of people, knowledge, and energy to be there. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u192	Did you talk to the director?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u193	No, we haven't met to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u194	Madam President. On page 18. According to the 54th budget, pay is expected to increase by 9% in the period leading up to 2022. This amount of pay is not expected to be eaten in general in the system so that it will fail to fit into each category. However, in the hospital service environment a total increase in the period up to 2022 is expected to be 8.8%. To me, this sounds like a 0.2 percentage-point cut in terms of pay development. Well, maybe. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty only outlined how this is not a cut, how does this benefit the structural function being resolved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u195	A simple answer: This is on top of a fixed price code.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u196	Madam President. It's a simple answer to the question: It's wrong. It's not just fixed prices that happen, because, of course, collective agreements come in between. It's not like it's just a price-fixing thing. If it was, it wouldn't be a problem. Yes, some of these are prizes and may come forward, but it is, of course, assumed that some dresser therapy will also take place. So it is simply wrong to assume that this 9% disappears for some reason. If so, it would not have to be taken into account in the budget on page 18. 54 because similar lines of the same plan, on page. 52 or 53, I believe, assumes that the entire budget is in exactly the same quality. So you wouldn't have to say that, wouldn't you? So I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u197	A respectable president. Here in this dislocation of the government, I have received assistance from one of my colleagues in the other categories. This is a misunderstanding. All the costs frames are at the price of 2017. They are expected to increase every year according to pay and price changes. These increases are expected to occur in accordance with economic growth. So we're talking about 8.8% growth in hospital service, except for all economic growth and prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u198	Madam President. Good talk. But somehow, I don't quite figure it out. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, chairman of the welfare committee. The review of the Directorates of the Land Hospital tells us that the additional amount of money submitted to the National Hospital's Budget is derived to a large extent by dropping funding for some of the new projects that are already there and continuing to exist. In addition, there are some new projects, which include only partial financial contributions, and there is no basis for buying new buildings on Ring Road. There are other factors to be expected. This is the basis for new treatment cores and laboratory facilities to be completed in 2023. So it doesn't match. So I ask. A senator: Is she okay with this? [[The president calls.]] There are huge holes that we haven't really got answers to yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u199	A respectable president. You're right next door. Senator. This information was found. But we received an explanation for that at a meeting that followed. We received accurate numbers, and we also received the information that there are some work that have been completed, and this financial process goes on to the hospital. That's one explanation. Like I said, I thought there was a really big car out there. The land hospital was defending, they said one thing, but the paper we have here said another. I thought it was necessary to dig deeper into the situation and bridge the gap. I thought it might be nice to have some other professional, to let them do this job, build this gap, let someone come in there and work with them, and with the government or the rulers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u200	Madam President. I'm not convinced. I'm still very worried about the land hospital business. And I'm also very worried about the health care system, both here in the capital area and on the country. However, in the material development of the situation, around the new health insurance laws and other health - care committees during the last summer, concern was whether the care of the health care provider was prepared for this important role, i.e. being the first stop. In the outworking of the matter, it was decided to place an extra amount of money, 300 to 1,400 million, into the health - care center to strengthen it in that role. It was done. However, there is a significant need to improve the quality of the health care system to make this work. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who once again criticizes us, is constantly mixed with business expenses and investments. This is also true of health care, as is true of most others in financial programs. But I'd like to hear it. A senator will be able to share these concerns with my health care and the vision we have about the health care needs as our first stop and whether this will work out just according to a financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u201	I don't have to worry about it. A senator with a vision of the future. I'll take it out. I think it's a good view of the future and I just think we're going there. But with regard to the information we received here; once again, as I said, it was not clear enough about the funds for the project according to the measures set here. That wasn't clear enough. But this document was supposed to be policy, and I was supposed to evaluate it and to address my concerns with you on a budget board. Now we're here to talk about it. In the fall, in the fall, in the autumn, and in the autumn after that, our assignment is to handle matters with responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u202	Madam President. In my first speech, I failed to review my third opinion, which is the one here representing the United States Group on a budget board, so I'm moving on. In my first speech, I considered how I felt about this financial program. Of course, it is a financial program on the right. We officers find little harmony with her. But once the financial programme is approved, we've established a box for a 34 topic field. That is why we in the United States felt it necessary to make adjustments in the areas that we felt were going to be the worst. It is also the areas that were most talked about here before election, and the public has called for a change. We make changes in health care plans. We suggest that the frame will be expanded to the country's hospital service, the national health care and that the health - care providers will be taken down further and that nursing facilities will be supported. We cannot see in the plan how to go up simply to run the homes, whether they are new or older, in view of the financial provisions given to nursing homes. There is also a need to build up a home and to meet the need. The number of nurses added in this financial program is only half of the calculated need for the year 2020. So it's obvious that we're in a lot of trouble here. Most of our proposals turn to health matters, but we also make changes in education. There we suggest that high school get more support to get through a crisis period that will be next year and the next year. This is because a short period of study is going through. Some schools have double systems now and in the next two years. Schools are also dealing with a natural drop in the number of students, but as early as 2021, the number of new students is growing again. The number of them will gradually increase, so this is a temporary problem. Then, in fact, we want to demand that the savings resulting from a short study course remain inside the system as promised and that it be used to strengthen the support of students and improve the quality of learning. The colleges are starving, I'll say, in this program. Government leaders have been eager to talk about the importance of education and the need for a new technological revolution, but education is not expected to play a great role there, as any one will see. We propose that the university will be a major success so that 1 billion will be added each year during the five years. But even though we do, as many people might think, we still haven't reached the average OECD states for college. So we need to make a big effort out there. We're saying that it doesn't have to be this way. We make adjustments in the affairs of those who are desperate and disabled, mostly depend on the quality of the men and women who are expected to receive them in 2019 to arrive right away in 2018, and that the simple system comes in earlier so that they will enjoy betterment. We also make suggestions in transportation, communication, and law enforcement. We assume that the 2018 transport program will be fully funded and funded with a similar amount of budget. However, we expect a number of funds to speed up communication plans, but there is a need to spit on our hands there. Clearly, the law enjoys financial resources and pressures, and it needs to be added. Finally, we propose that development cooperation will be increased. We are a rich nation, we are one of the richest nations in the world, but we are so far from achieving the UN's goals that 0.7% of the nation's income will go to development cooperation. We're expected to go to 0.26%. I'm just ashamed of that amount. It is not expected that we will raise it to the United Nations goal. We suggest that the amount of money will be 0.29% of the local income in 2018 and up to 0.33% in 2022. We realize that much more is needed. These suggestions in the United States are what we say are the least to improve this financial strategy, which would be very different if we had been allowed to write it from scratch. But we also realize that the situation is in the economy and the economy that it does not just mean to raise our expenses, we have to tell you where we're going to take our income. And we will. First, we suggest that the general value tax level will not be dropped in 2019 to 22.5%, as planned. That gives 13.5 billion each year. We expect this to be a major tax. Since it is calculated afterward, it would not come in until 2019 C.E., but we expect 7 billion through it. To give a what? The Parliament's criteria for the extent of this tax that we offer gave the wealth tax back then, the last year he was at the people, over 10 billion in the government box. We expect an apartment building to be reduced to a greater extent than was done when we had the wealth tax in our time. We'd like an officer of the IRS. According to the government tax manager, there are over 80 billion who are the target of taxes. By careful surveillance, we should be able to get some of it. We assume that if we increase our surveillance, we will reach 5 to 6 billion per year. We suggest that the fishing costs increase and the energy companies are about to pay for their resources. There we add a modest but reasonable increase over time. We know that money has been underestimated for a long time. We'll assume that, and then we'll bring a better plan to the real world. Finally, we suggest that there be a straddled income tax set up on the legislature, which would provide approximately 4 billion a year, and a gradual funding tax would give about 2 billion a year. This is the income we make. They make a lot more money every year than our budget budgets are expected, so we need to make more money than the financial programme assumes. We also need to consider other areas of affairs that may have to be improved so that we can set aside some time to do so. We feel the need to do this, and I'm surprised that more of the budget committees that highlight various flaws and criticisms of the plan speak, including the U.S. how it is fair to save the savings that results from a shorter class to high school, but it does not suggest a change. Why is that? The same is true of college. The majority suggest that the amount of segregation proposed for 2017 is contained in 2018, but it does not offer suggestions on this in numbers. Why not? I suspect that the budget is being handled lightly, that it can be picked up and changed, and shifted, and used only to follow the government plan as it pleases. But it is not. This is not so, proper president, because the public financial law assumes that once the Parliament's decision has been adopted, the compromise on the fields to work for the budget of 2018 has been approved. Of course, the schedule is recorded each year, so the next few years are less rigid. It has the highest. Financial and economic Ministers also here stated from this platform that there will be no change in the numbers set in the fields unless something comes up that must be addressed, something unexpected, something unexpected, something unexpected, that we can't now see in the maps. However, the majority of legal committees do not seem to feel that way. Rather, he wrote in text that this need to be added and added, but do not show it in numbers. The majority of budgetors park, e.g. in order to be delayed by the 8.5 billion to enter through a midyear's VAT tax, or July 1, 2018. There is a lack of a income plan of 8.5 billion. No comment on how to deal with it, nor is anything changed on the income side. That's what I feel is completely irresponsible. Hv. The head of the budget board, which often makes sense about the importance of responsibility, careful planning, and firmness, then decides when he directs more of the committee's parts in order not to go that way but to associate with the financial agenda until the next five years lightly and leave us in uncertainty. Public financial law means, for example fix, but it is not already able to keep up with much of the budget board. Then there are some factors in the majority of the interest of a financial committee that I would like to severely criticize, such as. To sell the base at Keflavour Airport. It speaks of taking the discussion, examining it, and opening up the discussion of privatizing the only portal into and out of the country. In the next five years, I think it's not merely unfashionable to consider going on to these exercises, but it actually concerns the security of the country that public citizens have such a business in their hands. That is not to say. If a greater proportion of the budget board opens the discussion to see if the pros and cons of the flight station at Keflavour Airport should be considered, he does not suggest that we examine the effects of personal development in the health system and whether there is a need to compromise or to criticize the plans for personal education. Madam President. Time's up. [[The president calls.]] I may be coming back to you later, but it probably won't be tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u203	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The new Oddný Harðardóttir for her speech and the result of the adjustment proposed by the United States by this financial program we address. I think it's important how. A senator reasoned that this matter needs to be treated with respect, so he showed respect for the other way in which things can be improved and how to make money for them and how to take care of them. I was very thinking about this because we have discussed this in this discussion, and today the members of the Commission have not greatly participated in the discussion, even though they suggest things in their committees and comments. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because I know that she has taken a lot of observation and that she has considered the setting of public financial matters. Now we're going through this process for the first time where the new government suggests first financial policy and then a financial plan, so finally financial law, whether it's not dangerous that for the first time we're going through this package it's like it's all done lightly, suggested that it may be increased here, there's something that needs to be done differently, but no formal adjustment proposed. [[The president calls.]] I'm beginning to wonder where the Council will be working when all this journey is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u204	Madam President. Of course, I'm worried about these tactics. The budget is a political arrangement, so the General agrees with it and then commits the government to do what it says. I like the work that has been done in the professional committees, and these opinions and reviews that the professional committees have turned up are very good songs. There are good comments that we can apply when discussing the laws of the law. However, if it's not to matter what numbers are in the budget, we should not have set this up as a political arrangement on public financial matters. Then we should have said: A financial committee will report and tell her how she feels things should be, and each professional committee can bring her own report, and thereby posting some messages to the government, so she can just figure out what things are like. This is not the case with public financial laws. There's a synopsis proposal for financial policy, and there's a strict framework around when it can be changed and when it can not be made. And it is assumed that for the next five years in the budget, the line of 34 languages is closed by approved Generalis. Then, as soon as the Generals have approved the numbers, we won't tell the Secretary of finance and do everything: we accept this, but then you can figure out something about how you're doing it. It is by no means the meaning of the law on public finances and does not show firmness, transparency, or stability of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u205	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. I agree that there has been good work done on professional committees, which, of course, have been done on the job as well as on the job. It's a legal committee. I think that this work is actually exemplary and dignified for the council, and we have achieved an amazingly good work despite the fact that time has been timed. My experience is that the members of Congress have generally agreed on one thing to obtain information. But just because the form assumes that the frame will be approved, is it not possible for this document to be approved this way, then some competition of the sort on which to pull the money in the frame when it comes to the budget? Really, we know little about where that work can lead us today. Thus, when it comes to the budget, we may find ourselves at a starting point again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u206	Madam President. In view of a greater portion of the budget committee, all these sphere visions, ideas, and indications appeared, of course, one thought that there was no more to this financial program. But that is not entirely clear. In the greater part of the committee, it is critical that the plan is not transparent, so when they lay down their tips, we can read what is right for us. I read in this statement that the greater part is not fully satisfied with this plan and is telling the secretary of finance and the government that it cannot be safe with the support of much more. So when you look at the numbers, there's no change. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. The chairman of the legal committee will review it with us later in the days ahead as to what to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u207	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir daughter for the speech. There are two questions I would like to address the senator about two issues that were presented in her talk or that she has discussed in this discussion. On the one hand, it mentioned the importance of reaching the multi-digited OECD average in donations to the university level. From the moment we saw that the colleges and university coaches and students began to offer these indications that we needed to achieve the average, I have asked, also at a meeting with the University of Iceland and in the Education Committee, why are we talking about the importance of achieving the average and whether it's more important to stress the quality of the study and results of the college that we put in rather than the sum we place on the seminar. This has been shown to be true, e.g. in our health system. We recently received a graded report in Lancet magazine or a study published there, which shows that we have the second best health - care system in view of some of the results we have achieved. OECD has also repeatedly pointed out that we are the best equipped health - care providers to look at the financial resources that enter the system. The second question has to do with a decision that I know the senator has agreed on. It would be interesting to hear her answer in a further explanation, i.e. Her logical support for why she has agreed, as I have understood, to raise the value tax in the tourism service and speak for it. Perhaps that is what I myself have stopped at, rather than other suggestions on raising taxes, which I would have been willing to agree with in what the senator has discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u208	Madam President. The average production of the Icelandic state at each year's university is nearly 1,300 of you. K. every year. In neighboring lands, the rate is 2.2 million. There's a big difference between us. The difference is natural in teaching, but also practical, and especially research. High school is not only teaching but also a research work. It is well - known and accepted that a people with a strong university will strengthen their competitive stand. When we cannot hold on to a wide range of educational opportunities, we cannot maintain scientific activity in some articles because we simply do not teach them or do not do research work, we are lost in these topics. That's obvious. I'm worried about this because right now we need to strengthen our education in the country, to face what is coming upon us by the new technological revolution. Then we're supposed to come together and strengthen our education system. That's the last government ever to have. A senator supported, and the one present in power seems to want to reduce the number of students to the extent that they can be said to be higher. At the same time, however, we are reducing our education levels in the country and destroying our position and competitive position. [[The president calls.]] I could say a lot more about this and I haven't been talking about the merit tax system yet, that's what I'll do in a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. Harðardóttir Oddný's her answer to a friend of mine. It's a friend of mine. It would be a wish we had more time, but as indicated at the end of the debate, we may have a chance to discuss this further when she comes up here again. I cannot see, however, that the senator's answer is directly related to that average argument. Especially in view of the fact that there are reports immediately after a crash, before cutting down, where it was pointed out that there was a reason for a degree of well - being at the university. We also see that we achieve a similar proportion of academics as such. Other parts of the North. Then, in addition to that, I believe Iceland's University, despite the difficulties after collapse, is probably one of the best little colleges in the world. When we look e.g. magazines and, in fact, all the standards for success in college, that's where we have a great school. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps I would have liked to see the exact financial program under increasing emphasis on Iceland's University rather than on distributing it because we certainly have a top-school education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u210	Madam President. Of course, we should set ambitious goals regarding our university career. It may be simple to achieve a good goal in a well - chosen school, but it is certainly easier to do so if we strengthen our staff and our facilities and research work better than we do here. About the merit tax. In the financial bill that I was responsible for, I suggested that the room service take up to a general step. I still believe that it should. The service should go up to the general stage. If that had been done in 2013, this article would have grown in this general environment. I think it would've been better than putting the raise on right now. But I'm still with her. During the discussion, it sounds like I'm one of the few members of the council who have the highest level. Economic and financial ministers on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. Harðardóttir This is a good overview of her vision and her party for the financial plan. Although I am in a situation where I have not participated in the work of the committees, I find it very interesting to come in here and see what committees have done and what the first round of new work has been and how they have gone. It seems to me that the committees put considerable emphasis on reviewing internal harmony in the objectives and numbers already available, but not all of them are clearly visible. I have pondered the agreement with the programs that are approved by the Council of individual language groups, such as the transport program, which, in fact, seem to me to be very conflicted with and heard among others. in earlier this year's council members that all of them want to make up for things, but they don't have a place in the plan. That's why I'd like to ask about the senator's opinion, which I know has given me a lot of thought to these matters, how the committees can actually do better in this order, such as. for the transport program, for the implementation plan on import issues, for the non-inferiority programmes, and for other programmes. Is it not something the Senate should do in this work, and how would that really be possible? On the other hand, I'd like to come to the academics. I share with what. A senator is concerned about high school status. How disappointing it was to see that the savings of a shorter student's test did not slip to strengthen high school! [[The president calls.]] I'm better at the questions next round, but good if the senator finds time to start.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u212	Madam President. In some languages, there are a number of problems with how plans are put down. We've complained that the transparency wasn't strong enough, that there was no price tag on policy everywhere. In some places this is done. That's how the Department of Nature works. They work in policy development, and it's supposed to become part of the plan, which, of course, should appear as agreed policies in the council as well. The Qualification Program adopted before 2016, and there was a parapolitic way to accept it before 2017, and 2018 was just cut off. During 2017, when the budget was fully financed, no more became involved in the council. I don't like that. I don't like it when the council finds parapolitic harmony, talks to rural society, and figure things out, and put together a plan and agree. They're assigned to the government and assigned to find out how this can work out, and she'll come back with suggestions not to do so. Then the majority of the council agree that they are ready to be absorbed by the Commission. I felt that this was the case with the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] I hope there's a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u213	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have a vision that it is extremely important for the council to follow the policies that have been agreed on and that it will show up in a financial program that argues that the reconciliation achieved in a transport program has really been settled on the minimum level of action in this area. Back to college. What I've been thinking about and I've been trying to look and it seems in part to be the problem that the student numbers are just not right in the schedule. I can, for example. not found consistent with looking into Haustabours' website and to figures for individual estimates of student numbers for individual parts of the country. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, results in causing problems, since in addition to students in each year, there are always some older students on the network.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-71.u214	Madam President. I think it's extremely important that high school now be taken into account, and that we here see access to schools, high school out of the country, not to be restricted while they're in trouble. We need to analyze the numbers, see how the applications are, how they fall into school and down into part of the country, which will be closed in June 1. We have to make sure that during this difficult time, young people have access to high school that is next to their homelands. We must strengthen our schools in cooperation in telecommunications and education, where small groups of people are difficult to keep. [[The president calls.]] We must not do what is now going into high school to make the offer less poor because we are saving so much money in our education system. [[The president calls.]] We must not let this happen.
