ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u1	Madam President. I'd like to agree with the words of my comrades on the General and Education Committee, please. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Onvardsdóttir and Andrés Ingi Jónsson. This is about a few words I'm going to review here and now, by permission of a president: ▪ The secretary should make sure that the requirements for equal status and the equal rights of women and men are met. This doesn't change everything, I think, but it's important that we stay on our toes every time we fight for equality. Thus, it has been with all rights struggles throughout history, whether it was equal to gender or race. We have to keep moving. We must not let our dough drop. This would have been a perfect opportunity to continue vigorously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u2	A respectable president. It is clear that the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men applies when the Commission has completed its work and a minister is faced with two or more parties. It means equal law. With the permission of the President, I'm going to quote the majority opinion of the committee: In the context of sex ratios being equal to the number of appointed judges, the majority of the members stress that a minister has a objective. The Committee presented a view that the current arrangement for the decision to be reviewed by the judges, including the Court's Committee, would need to be adopted. Based on gender considerations. The majority, however, stress the importance of working on the order of a court order and suggest that the bill be accepted unchanged. The addition adds no further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u3	A respectable president. It is difficult to read the vote table at a control board with as little more than the one sitting here. It seems to me, though, that our proposal in my section is to fall. I'd like to, for that reason, do the words of the ex-fiancée. Minister of Justice, then Minister of Homeland, to mine, by permission of the President: The Countji General that a minister has proposed to someone who is not acceptable or who does not agree, must be appointed another qualified minister... to be assured, which I think is absolutely fundamental when ordering so many at once, that there is not allowed to rest on one minister. It is our cooperation mission and the Minister to appoint these 15 judges. This release raises questions as to whether there will be some hesitation. The members of the board of directors when the final motion comes for payment. I hope they don't, and they'll live up to the beautiful words, and they won't accept the ancient formulation of national rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u4	A respectable president. I support this change proposal for my share. In a sense, it is unusual to think that a minister should be careful of the laws of the land. It may be said that I would not have wanted to support this recommendation except for the recommendations that have come from a minister. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I hope indeed, and it is what I have found so good to hear from the greater part that votes against the proposal, that it is so clear by the Council that we believe that the law of the equal positions and rights of women and men applies to all the orders of the state, including courts. Though this adjustment may be made, I think it should be very clear now to the minister and to others who will make suggestions regarding the order of judges that we believe the law on equal status and the equal rights of men everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u5	A respectable president. Yes, the color combination of my vote table certainly disappoints me. I would have thought that this adjustment would be carried on by special members of the Parliament, in which some of them at least declared support that this would be applied in terms of equality and that it should be applied in the text of the Law. Here was a golden opportunity to make sure that it was. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Harðardóttir Harddarddóttir make us happy to see that the United States of Congress seems absolutely certain that we are here to live in an entire new level of equality that will probably work here as long as some of us all last our lives. I hope at this point the High Council and the rest of the body are at hand and will see to it that diversity is leading to a new level of judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u6	A respectable president. I'm going to explain to members of the Committee on Social Security, No. 100/2007, with subsequent modifications, correction. The committee met after the case was brought here by a representative from the Department of Health, law experts, and state attorney. Also came representatives from the older citizen's partner in the area of Reykjavík and the elderly. The case, I believe, was well discussed in the Committee, where the main points of this rather difficult matter came up and it was good to discuss them. The objective of the bill is to correct the mistakes of law No. 116/2016 and 1st. changes were made in the 16th paragraph. legal on social security in connection with the recording of a new class of pensions. According to Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, the principle is that all taxable income affects the calculation of improvement. 2 mg. Section 16. The law, but 3 and 4. it is listed as an inaccessible waiver for which income is not counted as earning a pensioner in spite of 2 mg. After the law was published, it was found that the processing of the bill had made a mistake so that reference was made to the classes of pensions at the time. 17th par. And a flock for an administration. 48 and 56. depending on the size of the article "Subjects" which was meant to be in section 4. 16th gr., moved to 3 mgr. this article. 3 mg 16th ... thatexpects including... Pays from pension funds to calculate improvements, should be limited to the calculation of microenergy biofuels, as there were no changes in social security benefits due to disability of the law. I think it's right here that this information has got a bit of a kick. The welfare committee from the beginning of February. It was not until this month that information was received and the committee began to correct the mistakes. The majority of the committee believe that it is necessary to correct as soon as possible this legal error in which great interest is involved. If not, it could have the effect that payment from the pension system would be excluded from the calculation of the new pension and provisional funds. The majority stress that the law's will and purpose to keep unchanged reserves from the principle that taxable income affects the calculation for improvement have been made clear in all legal data, especially in the paper by billing what became the law No. 116/2016. The majority of these figures are clear from all discussions at the council as well as in the community that no legitimate expectations for further pensions have been made, and no one has been harmed. It should be made clear that in spite of another report from AS Today's leadership, no one has been paid in accordance with the current law but has been paid according to the legal requirements of the law. That's for damn sure. Overpaying is not a matter of asking anyone to be reimbursed. It is clear that this is how the committee was introduced, and this has been the case. The mistake was also evident only after payment had been made. The committee was not informed until afterwards. Taking into account the above, the majority of the items suggest that the bill be passed on as it should.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u7	President. I believe there is a great need to prove that people are not being demanded to be paid in spite of this willingness. I think it's very important to keep out of the question as a matter of course. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen was at the highest. A social minister today made it very clear that the spirit of the law should be determined. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator's handling of the problems people face, for example. in a insurance agency when it picks up its rights and falls between ships and docks and the computer always says no, as a recent example is that when two parents both have to sit in a wheelchair, you can't buy one large car, but have to buy two cars: is not a reason for us to take advantage of that opportunity now and explain it very well here at the council that the spirit of the law is not just a favor of the council. A man has full understanding that mistakes can be made, but we should always remember that every word in the law can have dramatic consequences for a large number of Americans. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would not agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u8	A respectable president. Yes, of course, the spirit of the law should always apply and be a valid law. But here it is not a question of the interpretation of the law. It is a question of what the attorney's will was for the law's law. The Lawgiver responded as soon as the mistake was discovered. We agree with that. This case has to go through fast. For more work on simplifying the system, we'll just have to take it later. I'm ready for that job. That is how the law should be, so it should be simple and clear. When we're always trying to make things better and complicate them, we're going a little far away from what was started.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u9	President. It is worth keeping it up when the law is so complex, such as the laws we are correcting as well as other laws that come in here into the council - they need correction because for some reason there have been very serious errors - that when the council makes mistakes and the law has now stood as it does with this evil error, it paid the insurance institution despite what was thought to be the law to say. I have no reason to understand how institutions, as large as they are, and with the same many people, can perform such major operations as this large amount of payment without a very thorough review of the following laws. That's what worries me. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that there is a lesson to be learned from this matter. It's 20 minutes past 8 when we're reviewing this case, no media is there, no one to monitor what we're doing, and it's going to be very fast through the council, and it's clearly not to be taken any lessons. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear a decision. That's for a senator. What lesson will we learn from this mistake?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u10	A respectable president. Regarding the payment of an insurance agency as if it were a law that told about them, it has revealed how clearly the Lawgiver's will was and what the discussion was like. [[Up front.]] But as to how we responded, we talked that much about the situation. A well - being committee has been discussed earlier at the council that we should review how we operate on the law in this room and what we must do to see the overall picture of the law at work, what they look like each time the Senate works the law. I think we should keep talking about it to stop this kind of thing from happening. That is true of some laws that we cooperate with, but that is not a universal rule. I think all we need to do is decide how we can be more informed and keep the process more beneficial while the work goes past us at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u11	Madam President. I recommend a panel of members from Part 2 of the Social Services Committee, i.e. The one standing here who takes the rest of my things away. The welfare committee. With law No. 116/2016 large changes in social security, No. 100/2007. However, the left movement ◯ green supply did not support the changes in law. It has been found that the bill was made a mistake, so the references were in the wrong paragraph of the 16th paragraph. The law says that the members of the Committee are a major member of the welfare committee. This failure was not discovered until the release of the law, but those laws have not been followed. A literal understanding of these wrong references would lead to a huge increase in the financial expenses. There have been opinions in the treatment of the case, especially in the case of the restoration of the laws and rights of the Constitution. There may be a possibility that despite the adjustment of the law given here, the state may have to carry out its duties. Although smaller items did not support the changes made in social insurance law, he or she counts in this case, however, that the Lawgiver's intention was expressed in the law, and particularly in comments to the bill that became the law No. 116/2016. The same understanding of the Lawgiver's intentions is also seen in discussions at the General Assembly and in the community and in the reviews of the bill. In view of the above and the fact that 2 smaller things were not involved in the changes made on the social security law in the past year, 2 smaller things will not vote for the case, nor will they put a stone in its street payment. This is what's stated in the committee's opinion, so I'd like to add that I think it's important, because I don't think anybody wants this situation to be made, to make a mistake like that, to come up again, to learn from mistakes like this. I think it might matter how the law of law is performed at the General Assembly. I think it will greatly reduce the likelihood of making such mistakes if the adjustment is written out completely so that not only the ones to be changed but also the ones to see why. Councilmen, ministers, and other officials who always work with the Law text how the article will look if the change occurs. I think this is relevant to the work force as well as to see if there is a proper number of paragraphs in the lyrics, so it didn't always have to figure out which paragraph is being referred to at any given time, but the paragraphs are just numbered. I think in general, regardless of this case, to reduce the possibility that such a situation will arise, this would really help. I'd like to direct it to all of us, and maybe least why. Presidency committee to review its implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u12	Madam President. I recommend a committee program with a change from the 1st cut of the welfare committee. The first minority of welfare committees violates the current approved case. A smaller portion suggests that the bill will be agreed with a validation date on March 1, but not backward, as expected in the bill. I'd like to tear down the course of matters within the committee, since we've been discussing this matter, and the information presented on the committee that was interested in answering. It was the following: Whether to plan a correction, especially in regard to the recovery of the law, to pass a constitution, or to be in charge of the State's benefits to pensioners. And in view of the fact that the Supreme Court in general has concluded that when the establishment is properly established in a retrospective and burdensome way, a retrospective correction in this case would be considered burdensome. The answers that were made were that these questions could be asked in one question: Did the legal rights of property arise? Then it was observed in interviews with experts who met the committee that in general the Supreme Court has repeatedly declared in its courts that property rights will not be impaired in a retrospective or burdensome way and that it would be a burdensome rule for reform workers. It was considered dangerous to claim that this court did not establish by means of a clear law on the contrary. A lot has been discussed here in a study of legitimate expectations and claimed to be the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equality earlier today that no legitimate expectations for further pensions had been established. But ask yourself, " Does this apply when discussing these matters in a public discussion at the General Assembly? ' that in force there are laws not allowing impairment, whether at that point there may be legitimate expectations of the city's paying according to the words. While everyone agrees that this is a mistake, the majority of the committee assumes that there is some special exception to principles in situations where this is not the case. Mistakes are not a legal concept. However, they seem to be useful to this bill. It follows the question: Is this the way we want to go to law, to set laws, and then perhaps possibly it will stand? Is this an example we want to create? The majority of the panels believe that the legislation shows the will and purpose of the legislature and that it is clear and that the legal error involved in the law of No. 116/2016 is an obvious mistake and inconsistencies with the Lawgiver's will and the purpose of the legislature. Part 1 agrees with the fact that the law shows will and purpose, but it believes that there is no way that people can look at legal evidence to examine their true rights. The text is clear, and the legal error is not so obvious that a smaller portion is possible for the public to realize that there is an obvious mistake. Part 1 suggests that the law must provide a correct view of the individual's rights and that it is undesirable to put on the public's shoulders to go to the rights that he obviously has. Then they came to the committee's viewpoint that the Law text itself could create correctly, even though it was a mistake, and despite the need for legal explanations to indicate something else. To the concerned, this is an obvious burdensome correction in that if the law remained unchanged, the group would gain a better right than it now receives from the state funds. In view of the greater part, he believes that no legitimate expectations for further pensions have been made, and no one has been harmed. A smaller portion is estimated from the committee's visitors that the question of legitimate expectations will not be an improvement. Reasonable expectations are not a strong concept here. The Constitution's rights protection is very strong and all rights of possession should always be added. This may be why only a few judges have discussed legitimate expectations. From the law as it stands today, it is clear that legitimate expectations have developed, whatever may be said of their rightfulness. The first part of memory is deeply concerned about the example set by the greater part of a retrospective legal system and is therefore highly risky and unlikely to accept feedback in this relationship. The committee presented the view that because of the mistakes, the State is a significant risk to improve its role. If this is the case with a court decision, then the Council can ask for an opinion in the community that is less than 1 can bear. In view of this and all of the above, the 1st smaller items suggest that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Section 3. Put it this way: This law has already come to pass. Madam President. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to agree with the question. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, providing a simple solution that could prevent such a mistake in the future. There was a suggestion to type general legal paragraphs, such as the base. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has often suggested that the law be performed so that we can see what is being added in the processing process and what is being taken out of it and what it looks like in its final image in the text. It's similar to what's called the 'Track Changes' to the Word - I'm sorry about the sleigh, Madam President. Granted, human error is human, but if we cannot learn from it and improve our practice of doing things, we will be inclined to look like mistakes rather than mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u13	V.E.G. President. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, the head of the Committee's opinion, I'll sign the committee's opinion in advance. Me and others why. The senators support the fact that this correction is now and therefore settle our vote. The chief turns to the opinions presented to the committee and we had, along with probably everyone else. Members of the welfare committee, wanted to have more time to swerve the matter and find acceptable conclusions. At the same time, we were in government at the time when the case went through the Council and wanted to show the responsibility of finishing the case here and correcting the boring mistakes that occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u14	A respectable president. People need to talk about changes in social security laws, No. 100/2007, from a major health committee. To be told here, there was a serious error in changing law during the last term, a mistake that accidentally created rights that were never intended to be given. This mistake is found on the welfare committee. Both more things and smaller things. This mistake cost us 2.5 billion a month. I say that again, so we all understand, that heavy burden left of 2.5 billion a month, or 30 billion a year, 30 billion that had not been expected in the budget. The members of the Committee on Health Care Committee, says, on permission of the president: A more significant part of the Committee feels that it is urgent to correct as early as this legal error in which great interests are involved. If not, it could have the effect that payment from the pension system would be excluded from the calculation of the new pension and provisional funds. The majority stress that the law's will and purpose to keep unchanged reserves from the principle that taxable income affects the calculation for improvement have been made clear in all legal data, especially in the paper by billing what became the law No. 116/2016. The majority of these figures are clear from all discussions at the council as well as in the community that no legitimate expectations for further pensions have been made, and no one has been harmed. I want to draw special attention to the last sentence. Although some have seen their advantage in distributing false news about the alleged reimbursement, there will be no demands on them. No one has ever been harmed. The primary objective of the change was to simplify the pension insurance system, to increase the rights of those who had earned little or no rights in the pension system, and to increase the potential for flexibility at the end of their retirement and the origin of pension. With the approval of these laws, a large and important step was reached in a global review of the social security laws and we will continue their review during this terms of interest. To continue in human language: There has been no harm here. On the other hand, the damage could occur if a failure to make changes in the law is not corrected. I'm afraid there won't be any financial space to continue working on raising pensions and raising income markets for employment so that older people can use their own skills and community experience in welfare. The risks and responsibilities we face with this feedback are $5 billion - $5 billion in all our well - being and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u15	A respectable president. My question is, Are we really going to be judged in an adverse state by courts, in effect, by a repetitious legal system? Would such a law really not be the same as a court of law, then, would it be based on the fact that the public would be guilty of these legitimate demands if courts reached such a conclusion? Can we fix it? Does it make any difference whether we establish a retrospective law or a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u16	A respectable president. I'm gonna be completely honest with you. I signed the virtue, that I would always be honest in my answers, and here I stand before you saying, "I can't say yes or no to that, because I don't know. I'm afraid for this position that we are in here, but I'm gonna be completely honest with you and say, "I can't answer your questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u17	A respectable president. I'll be just as honest with you: I have no idea, either. That's why I ask, and not necessarily what. Instead, I actually raise this question to all of us. Maybe there was. A senator so unfortunate as to be in a purse when it came to my mind. But I think this is a vital question to ask ourselves: Who would we really be breaking if we were to restore the law? There are so many things that can go wrong with such practices. There is a degree of uncertainty about all laws if they can always be corrected later in life. This is not a very helpful professional practice in the legal process. If we didn't make a repetitious law, would it make any difference to the courts regarding all the explanations made by the law? If we do not, why are we really trying to tread on this habit? This example? I think it's a very difficult matter. I'm thinking, like, a retrospective song? It's gonna sting me somehow. I get some stomach ache when I think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u18	Madam President. I'm so relieved to know that I'm not the only one with a sting in his stomach over this. But with feedback, we're righting the counsellor's will. There's one thing I can say here. I wish I could answer that. I wish I could tell you, what if there's more snow tomorrow? But I can't answer that, unfortunately. But this recovery is trying to correct the lawgiver's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u19	A respectable president. I wanted to ask in a word. A senator I singled out in her speech. If I remember this correctly, then I would talk. A senator that although some have seen the advantage of distributing false information on this matter, there has been no legitimate expectations. I'd like to pray. A member of the Parliament should be more aware of his words. Does she have an idea of which persons should be who see for any reason their advantage in handing out wrong information on this subject, and what basis does she have for this? Does it not feel that there is a possibility that wrong information could have been presented on this issue because there is no evidence in the bill on the 5 billion repeatedly referred to by the members of the Commission? They're not spoken of in an article with a committee party, possibly because they lack all the support for the reason that we're putting the law back here in this bill, i.e. it also does not show why it is considered a reason to go back to January 1 and to let the law apply from that time on. Could the reason why the news on this matter is not mistaken is that much of it has just not been candid with it and has tried to strike the matter down by not speaking frankly about what is involved? These five billion are not spoken of as repetitives, nor are they spoken of in this report. Who are these people? A senator thinks that he wanted to spread false information on this matter? Could it not be an understandable misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u20	Madam President. My greatest hope is that this is a mistake in regard to the wrong information that came out today. We're talking about a lot of seniors out there right now who think the state is coming to get money from them. I don't know who benefited from performing this wrong information, but I said we had to correct it. There were so many questions, I know I can't answer them all. Hv. A senator has to ask again, in effect. [[THOSE: It's just that there's nothing in the committee's opinion of the 5 billion, there's no evidence. Couldn't this just be a mistake, like, instead of...?]] That 5 billion people are misunderstandings? [[THREE: What do you say?]] That 5 billion people are misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u21	The president must state that a discussion must be conducted, not out of the hall, but out of the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u22	I'm sorry. As I mentioned earlier, it's got a stomach thing going on. For this false information, I don't know why they came out, I don't know exactly why. We're not trying to hide anything from this. We're just trying to fix it. In terms of recovery to January 1 it was the law's will that the law be like this from January 1. That date, therefore, is looked forward to correcting them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u23	A respectable president. I'll do my best to stress more on what I meant. Hv. In his talk, a senator said that some saw an advantage in distributing false information in the news on this subject. That's why I wanted to ask. The senator who she could imagine would have any benefit in distributing false information about the matter. In this context, I asked if it was not reasonable to conclude that since this case had not been properly introduced, since it was not well explained, it could not be a natural misunderstanding of how the subject has been presented, with what is presented. Is it not reasonable to think that those who have been spreading news today that pensioners may have to pay back something, simply misunderstood it? There's no talk of a five billion payback if we don't agree, in the report on this. And there is no evidence to support recovery, which is that we do not have to pay this 5 billion back. Is it not just a natural misunderstanding of those who deal with this issue rather than with anyone who sees the advantage of sharing false information about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u24	Madam President. As I said before, it's my warmest hope that this was just a misunderstanding. For information presented in the report and the information that we have received, I understand that. I understand what I've read. Group members understand what's going on here. If I may, by permission of the president, read from a committee list: ▪ The more part of the Committee feels that it is urgent to correct as early as this legal error in which great interests are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u25	Madam President. V.E.G. The head of the welfare committee, if it is still in the area, correctly points out that there are great interests at stake. Clearly, there has been a mistake. This can be serious. But more serious is the fact that the mistake was on January 20. They knew that they had made a mistake. They knew that 2.5 billion people were low each month. However, on February 27, the Senate is finishing this matter, and now it is time to make a retrospective decision on January 1 that this money should not be paid off. Why was the council not called together sooner? Why was this not done before? That's very strange to me. It's amateur. People make mistakes. From January 20th, the ready begins. We need to get to the bottom of it and be nice if the chairman of the Committee - and I'm that the majority opinionr, er. paritaprevir Will Árnason, is asking to respond to me. This is very serious. Then we need to know: Who decided that this decision should not be paid out? Was it a insurance agency? Was it a minister? If it was a minister, we need to get a look at it. I've spoken to other members of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. On section 8 of section 1. 13th par. A law on the General Assembly, says, by permission of the President: The Commission shall also take the initiative to investigate the decisions of the individual minister or the procedures of those to whom it is appropriate to consider on the basis of the surveillance role established by the Council against the Commission. If request such a check came from at least The number of members of the committee shall be the fourth. The committee can report its decision to the council. The Chairman of the Committee himself wants to know. All I can expect is for the committee to consider, since this is a very serious matter. And they say here that government agencies can only follow the spirit of the law. Should they be reading in the spirit of the law rather than the lyrics of the law? We also need to know that this is very serious. Also, it is said that if such wrongdoing is possible, the council should respond as soon as possible. No, it wasn't done. They weren't following the spirit of the law here. But then the spirit of the law is not followed in the advice of men. And tomorrow, we face the fact that the National Committee on the ASI and SA will tell us if 70% of pay contracts, 100 collective contracts, are upset. The Council has not intervened as it was said to have to, not just in terms of the salaries'wages, but in terms of ministers and others who hear under the council, did not then, when the spirit of the law was not followed. Therefore, the appropriate rights to be taken over again should be taken. And then we come to that: Why did people possibly not have legitimate expectations that they should receive those payments? This was because either because of the order from a minister or an administration agency, an insurance agency, was decided not to pay off the money, although the law says so. That is why people did not know because they were to receive these payments. What we need to know is, Why was that so? But the Council is going to restore law, repetitive in this case, because the spirit of the law was not followed. But the Council is not going to make laws when the spirit of the law is not followed in their own wages. And then we are faced with a potential crash following that. There are other agreements that need to be reviewed during the year. It seems to be the tone. We need to get some answers to this on the Board of Directors and Observers tomorrow. I'll start by calling for answers there. But it would be interesting to hear what the chairman of the Committee is doing. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, and what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, the manager of the majority, has the matter to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u26	A respectable president. I can now totally admit that I have stopped realizing what's willing and what's not here. You either work this way too fast or way too slow. [[Up front.]] But for me to review how this case was worked, I'm not talking about the outcome, but, as it was done, it was in complete harmony with the welfare committee. There, we simply discussed ourselves down to a conclusion in the very good cooperation of the committee. We informed all members of the committee as soon as the matter was addressed to the committee when the issue would be presented, what would be prepared before, which guests would be assigned, and what procedure the case should be conducted. That's why we're finishing this today. The committee received this in the beginning of February after the pay came. So the committee had nothing to say about it. We cannot exactly explain what this was like in our institutions. I suppose, at least initially, after all the work that had been done in preparation for this law, everyone agreed on what the law should be like. Then they were being changed a bit. The failures are likely to result in failure to follow the end of the disability - related pensioner and pensioner. Hence, a change is needed. Maybe that's the basic reason for making mistakes. But as soon as this becomes evident, they are working for it. That's why we're finishing this by March 1st. We called visitors to the Committee and tried to do this so that we could work well and still work as fast as we needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u27	Madam President. On January 20th, the U.S. Department of Insurance knows about this. When does the committee know about this? This does not enter the Committee's desk until February 5th. If this was known by an insurance agency, it would be interesting to know from the highest level. Minister if he knew. If he knew this, why didn't the letter of the law begin to be paid, or should the council be called together immediately, or what? This is what we need to get to the bottom of. That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not agree that it is strange that 15 days will pass? 15 days, 16 days, two weeks. What is it? There are 1.3 billion people between being aware of this and being treated by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u28	A respectable president. It should be noted that the Council is first brought together on January 24. Then it's called together. When such a big matter occurs, there must be a review of the whole process, and when it comes to the Committee, the situation has been prepared and the changes have been made, the failures have been reviewed and the costs calculated. These are huge interests. I don't know exactly what happened. It's just gonna have to look at the way it is. However, the committee worked as fast as she could since she received the matter. From that we worked. When did we get the facts, and what information did we have? Why are we so late? What are the needs? I also think it is important, how much interests are involved in this matter, how it's handled, and how it's solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u29	Madam President. Sounds like it, if I understand what it is. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason right, that's something we just need to get to the bottom of to know. My decision was not how long it would take the committee to work. My complaint is that it's knowledge of this at the U.S. Department of Insurance on January 20, and it goes on more than two weeks before the council receives it. Who made that decision? The decision to pay for the spirit of the law, not by law, meant that these legitimate expectations were not created. Who has the authority to make such decisions? This is something that depends on the Senate's surveillance role, and we're clearly going to call for information on this on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u30	President. I have repeatedly pointed out it since I had the most important part of being here to represent the public and protect the public interests of the Council, how important it is to remember that every time we make a law, we have the legs of life in our hands. That's how I do, and I don't feel that many members of Congress are fully aware, perhaps not personally involved, that every word, each sentence often affects thousands of people, affects the most vulnerable groups in this community, because they feel the most sense of it when things are screwed up. You have to ask yourself, " Who is responsible when such a major mess takes place in the legal process? ' The excuses I've heard here that it was perfectly clear what the Lawgiver's will was and that this mess could possibly have been made because something was pulled out at the last minute - what kind of legislation is it that we agree to be okay here at the General Assembly? Even if we never have to face responsibility, do members of the Parliament not realize that we are responsible? We're responsible. We're here to protect the public's interests. You see, President, when the government screws up and the public has to pay the bill, the responsibility falls on the public. It's not a big deal to make sure that someone is overpayed, especially at a insurance agency, that they are torn off people. It's not a problem when people don't have food for the month. It's just that way. I can see why. A senator who deals with the head of a welfare committee was shocked that I remind them that it has been so repeatedly, and then I'm not talking about this government, but the government there and there before and there before, where people don't pull up against the fact that those who can remember themselves in our society don't get benefits because the computer says no. We're here talking about the spirit of the law. When it comes to the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter, it is by means of a insurance agency that many people live in anxiety and fear of seeking their rights. This is where we're gonna stand and say it's all right. There are other laws here that we'll take into consideration where there's more mess. I have to say, the explanation I've been given to members of Congress today and the recent learning we're going to learn from this - I have not heard any examples of how we're going to learn from this case. No one. No one's ever told me what we're going to learn from this, what action we're going to take. Nobody. This is where people who have promised that we will be in a good administrative facility will not work to suggest what we will do to make sure that this will not happen again. We have talked about it repeatedly, and we talked a lot about it when we were discussing how we were going to make a government. It was part of their discussion that we were going to conduct a better government, a more careful legal approach. I have not seen any such suggestions come forth from either the presiding committee or the current government. If that's not the case, I don't think we're gonna wake up and feel the power, energy, and focus to fix the work at the General Assembly, I don't know what it takes. 5 billion, President, that's a lot of money. The more part has told me that if this doesn't run out of constitution, the money will be torn off the people who are the worst in our community. I don't think that's acceptable, Mr. President. I feel that it is not acceptable to have been here for eight years and repeatedly pointed out the bad procedure and that nothing has been done to fix it. We senators who call for the opinion of experts on how we can achieve good legislation, create good laws, provide criticism here, have needed supervision of law and execution, do not receive access to specialists, and it's not good, President. You're gonna have to forgive me, okay? Senators, that I should pour myself on you like this, but I'm just completely offered. I'm all invited. It's 9:00 here, and we're dealing with a huge case. They're going to try to get it through very fast. Here's a little discussion, for fear of what? Because the law is in such a gray area that we could be harmed by what we are doing. But who has the damage? What money are we looking after? It's not our money. It's not government money. It's money from taxpayers. We're shepherds for taxpayers. We must never forget that. It's not our money. It's not the government that owns this money. We're looking out for the benefit of the public. When we make such a mistake, we cannot at least - those responsible for it. Who is responsible for this? Can we say that? No, you can't say that. You can't say who's responsible for this. I would very much like those responsible for this messing march forward and to apologize. I want those responsible for this mess repeatedly making serious proposals to legalize here. We're supposed to look at the Norwegians. They have a more advanced legal system. If we're not going to learn anything from this, I'm going to lose all confidence in the law. If we're not going to learn from this, I have no respect for the laws that come out of this house.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u31	A respectable president. 5 billion because of some legal error, some rash error, a print error, an error in typing, what you call it. This is an incredibly embarrassing mess, worse than the Oscar. I have full sympathy by what I do. The members of the greater part want to quickly fix this and remain in a sort of quiet silence without too much harm to do. As we have been told, it was the lawgiver's will not to pay the 5 billion, but we'd like to live in a state of justice, as I understand it, where law is done. Although I'm not a lawyer, I realize that the letter of the law is above the lawgiver's will, even though it's a legal solution, it's the letter that counts. It would be very convenient to say about the mistakes: Yes, yes, let's just take care of this - but I think, General, I don't mean to disrespect the law we put ourselves, stop following them, and hope there'll be no trouble, no trouble, and so we rely on the community debate as to whether it was expectations or not. I don't think we can go to the Generals, like anybody else, decide that this law doesn't happen to us, so we're not going to follow them, and then we're going to fix it back in time. That's a hell of a thing to do. People have been talking about the gray area here. If a similar mistake arises in the future, and it is not quite as clear in legal explanation that it has made a mistake, can this once again be done? Then, later, it may be that it is not completely clear that a mistake has been made, but people feel that a mistake has been made and we change it. Then even the Council was going to make the law this way, but it didn't go exactly the way we wanted it to, so we must be able to change the law again, too, right? Where is the limit, if the General can decide to change his own law over time? This situation is particularly tragic because it involves the choice of the most vulnerable in society. I don't think we have a reason to change this back again, backward. It's a prince thing, no matter how pragmatic or comfortable it is, we can't allow ourselves to do that. If that happens, we can raise the funds and take the load of money that was created because of our personal mistakes or the mistakes of a particular person. I understand this is a big mess, but we have to follow the laws of the Allied Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u32	A respectable president. On June 2, 2016, a conquistador proposal was adopted. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn the son of Gunnarsson, mine and my wah. paritaprevir Ástrúns Helgadóttir, which says that Congress documents to be published in the Allied press, cr. 90. gt. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1991 will be published in computer formats so that laws, chapters in law, paragraphs, language, numbers, etc. will be detected in the computer language. In previous talks, we've just mentioned that part of the problem created here was that we didn't get the big picture of changing the law. If it had been achieved the aims of this synoptic arrangement, we would have had access to the laws in context. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to press on to the group of service as prime committees to order to complete that work. Only for words at the highest. The head of the welfare committee who said earlier, with the permission of the president: ◯ We are making a decision to the legislature of the legislature. I understand that very well, but at the same time, I think of a case that we handled that covered everything about the Lawgiver's will and the legal explanation. Then I can only think, " Were there the same mistake? ' It was not a law on the rights of judges, which states the sexual rights of the sex. As a result, there is no law code relevant to this information, i.e. There's nothing to explain. Why go to the legal file when there is no law to explain? Similarly, there was a legal article in the wrong place, and there was nothing to explain to it really, so I didn't have to consult the law on that article. I don't know. I think it's a terrible comparison. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's buttum with advice is similar to all these cases. It's a natural law text and the lawgiver's will. It is in a gray area, up to and down, whether it is appropriate, an explanation, or the lyrics. That's something we need to make things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u33	A respectable president. I just wanted to come into the rear workings of the law for a second. I find this so interesting that it's now being talked about that the spirit of the law is not being followed. There are other laws in which the report did not deal with the Law text in such a way, and the State estimated a huge damage if the law is rediscovered again. But let's say this happens so they'll be canceled, these people had no legitimate expectations for this requirement, in fact, all the reasons for our high-priority saying system are down and our personalisation just went down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u34	A respectable president. These laws were passed before I entered this council. It would be pleasant and easy for us to be able to wash our hands on such grounds and in that way. I just want to get into this discussion. I understand the need to come up and discuss this on the grounds that this is a mistake and, of course, that it's boring and all that, but I'd like to come up with a term called a national interest. In this context, I find no doubt as to where he is. This is a possible adjustment of the proposed proposal, and no matter what we feel about things such as subversion of law or such lofty concepts, it is either that the proposed legal proposal will increase the likelihood that the judicial case, if it should be appealed, would be won or reduced the likelihood of it. Hv. paritaprevir When Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came here, he asked earlier: "How does this change really affect us? I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen answered in her speech in which she spoke for the adjustment, that it was most likely more right if such a change was not accepted. From the perspective of national interest, I feel that, although most likely it's not a role that anyone likes to be on, to correct such mistakes in this way, perfectly obvious what the right attitude on this matter is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u35	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek whether he agrees with what I mentioned earlier in my speech about the need to examine who is responsible for this decision. It is quite clear that the money wasn't paid out, and as a result it doesn't have to be recalled, they created the circumstances where there was no expectations. Who had the authority to decide if the law said it should be paid out? But the spirit of the law was different. That's what I'm talking about. Don't you agree that we need to get to the point of knowing whether they have decided as a state institution, thinking, "We just read through the spirit of the law, we're just going to interpret the spirit of the law, and we're going to follow the spirit of the law, not the code of the law, not the code of the law, do we? Did the Minister know about this? V.E.G. Minister said it was more of a process. That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not agree that we need to understand who is responsible for this and that we need to be able to prevent this in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u36	I don't see any reason why we're rolling all the rocks on this thing as different. I agree with the members of the council who have come up here and talked about the need to improve legalization in various ways. But would it have been the right decision to pay out money if people didn't consider them to be in the spirit of the law? I'm not completely convinced of that. It must simply be the decision of that court if you find that it should have been that way. But I'm not entirely convinced that in such circumstances, an institution should take over the decision to pay off money without having the Lawgiver's clear will.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u37	Madam President. Then we are still faced with a decision not to pay. On January 20, the U.S.A., however, the matter was not handed over until more than two weeks later to the council. It is now often this large interest as it depends on 5 billion people, the council is packed in here even on weekends to finish making laws on people's strikes because they feel that billions have become very high in society that they can't be any more. Got it. Is it not strange that it took an entire couple of weeks to receive this matter into the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u38	A respectable president. I reiterate that I'm not it well in those matters, I'm not on the welfare committee, but the members of the welfare committees that have come up here have clearly explained how the matter came up, that it was intended to prepare the case well enough so that it might get a good payment within the council. [[Up front.]] But as I say, I can only answer about the circumstances I know, not the circumstances I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u39	A respectable president. In this context, the period of national prosperity is completely understandable. I talked about the state of justice earlier and the evidence as it was. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek used earlier, i.e. If it comes out better, we should. So I'd like to quote John Stuart Mill, who is known for his usefulness, developed his father's usefulness of James Mill and Jeremys Benthams in the way that we still need to respect certain social rules, so that for a long time, the interests of the whole body are respected rather than that the temporary interests of this principle keep running - we are talking about the human rights and rights that are mentioned earlier. I'd like some to ask why, after this philosophical outcast. A member of Congress whether he generally believes that the lawgiver should be able to determine for each time whether it is a national advantage to compromise the laws that are in force in the country. If the Lawgiver's conclusion is that it is a national advantage, then the legislatator must violate the laws in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u40	According to law, the lawgiver can hardly break the law. He puts it like a whisk. A senator knows. And, of course, we have a constitution that guarantees the right of property and ensures that humans have received a just trial. There is nothing to see, of course, that in spite of this law and any other legal process, a person can take his case and receive his rights if they truly have been created. But I'm not saying that in this case it must have happened. But I think the Lawgiver's lawsuit with the adjustment presented here is that it's better to agree rather than not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u41	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. We're both, I think, unsure about that, we are. Senator, whether recovery will pass constitution. Like what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came in well earlier then, it seems, in fact, unlikely. Does the senator feel that it is proper for the attorney to have the general body of law so that the general council would hand it over to the generals to take their right to the council or to the government if they have violated a constitution instead of holding the rule of following the law and conforming to the Constitution and including the Constitution? the principles of the court's law not to restore a law on the interests of people. I totally understand that attitude. Let's just hope this goes well, then we're putting it in the hands of citizens in the social security system. Isn't this some famous Mass from the Senate story? I'm not being threatened, so they're being held back. Is it not enough to hold on to the obituaries? I don't get it. I have to admit it. I would think that we have a moral and political responsibility as lawgivers to try our utmost to comply with the Constitution and principles of the state rather than put it into the citizens who are under the insurance system to take their rights to us and only hope that they will be successful. I don't know what it is. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u42	It is natural quick to say that I reiterate the constitution as still valid. If there has truly been some rights, they will be brought. But I don't think we should react at first. With the same reasoning, we could have said that we should just have the initiative to pay off money. I don't feel that way at all. The government should keep the purse tight, not try to pay, which is therefore not an obligation to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u43	Madam President. Just really short. I know everyone wants to go home. To say, it is not obvious whether the proposed retrospective correction will pass a constitution, or may create a national debridement to pensioners. Experts feel very unlikely to claim that property rights did not develop with error in the law and to warn of this law. This is not the way the Piratars want to go to law school. So the Piras support the error to be corrected, not adjusted again. If a modification proposal does not cross memory, Pirats will be sitting by to save the bill in the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-27-34.u44	Madam President. As I traced in my history with the Committee's Section 2. My share, I and we in the left movement do not vote for these proposals for changing social security laws. We will also sit by and do not vote for the adjustment proposed in the case.
