ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14.u1	December 5th. received such a written message: Iceland's number tells: I have determined, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council should meet for Thursday, December 14, 2017. As soon as I published this, all those in the General Assembly will be invited to come to Reykjavík for a day and then the General Assembly will be appointed after the service of God's people in the cathedral. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, December 5th, 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet on Thursday, December 14, 2017 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. Fine generals. I wish you all luck in difficult jobs. Your clients have put their trust in you. Which of you is assigned to follow your own convictions in the solution and to keep the nation's interests first. At the same time, you are elected to a council by signs of political parties. There, people have become part of a community of ideals and goals. Groups at the Council are now eight and have never been more. How praiseworthy it is that there are different attitudes here! The General Assembly needs to reflect the diversity of society, and members of Congress must deal with them by reasoning on currents and policies, leading to progress. The right to conflict and conflict is, in fact, the basis for free societies, free councils. In a century of information, French thinker Voltaire upheld this truth. Later, the English writer Evelyn Beatrice Hall expressed Voltaire's view of Voltaires in a way that even though he was completely against them, he wanted to defend with his life the right to disagree. In politics and all social talk, we must be able to share, to promote our own convictions, and to oppose the opinions of others. Before the Internet, public communication was difficult. Happily, this has been the second century, and most of us make good use of new ways to talk about things. I'm sorry, others don't know how to start. Criticism is something else. Such matters are especially aroused when the campaign is held, and people become more competitive. Indeed, voters need information on the policy issues of the categories that can be selected, the benefits of candidates and the evaluation of others in their language. But do we want advertising, shame, and outcasts that no one dare accept? Do we want the media to distinguish the news from propaganda, between the facts and the point of view? For a long time, in our community, it has been lowly to prevent ambushes, to misplace sources. In many parts of the world, greater anxiety is due to the influence of social media, information sources, and blundering rulers can have on people's opinions, the opinions of the masses. Some fear that more and more people are caught up in prejudice and false news, experience a desire and a hard fight rather than enjoying the freedom that comes from learning different ideas and viewpoints. There is no request for tolerance for anything, that all opinions should be as righteous as any conviction offered in the name of unity and surrender. But I believe and trust that it is the case here in Iceland, here in the Hall of Congress, that we don't want to call everyone who disagrees with us an evil man, that we want to listen to people and appreciate their views rather than to be suspicious of those who have joined us in another party, and that we're in the way of nothing good to expect. It's a warning. For example, about prejudice and close - mindedness can be Vör. Get me Jón's poem úr Bad Man about the old lady in the cabin. Her father's family knew no one, her father's family knew no one, when he made a poet, yet she was tortured enough. Jón himself fought for the added benefit of the common people, spent some time in association with communists, but he could not find himself there. ▪ I have left, and he later told me that I tend to show that opposers have one or another's point of view. From outside the world, we can also quote the well - known words of dissident Alexander Solzhenitsyns, who spent years in the concentration camps of his oppressors in the Soviet Union, and who were truly ill - intentioned. Yet, he wrote about the temptation to turn mankind into bad people and good people: If they were now so easy! If it were only somewhere bad men to do bad things, and it would be necessary to hold hands in their hair, separate them from the rest of us, and destroy them. But the line that distinguishes good from evil goes directly through each person's heart. Who wants to destroy part of his heart? Ladies and gentlemen: At the council, everyone has to obey his own convictions, and people have organized themselves, but this also calls for cutting demands, bridge breaks, respecting different viewpoints. At the end of the month, a new government began ruling. During the past decade, there have been five total elections. Less than a year passed the last two terms. This year, three prime ministers have been serving in the country, which is an isolated case in the republican history. While it is good to be able to vote regularly for the council, stability is also desirable in the administrative structure. A new government follows wishes for successful jobs in behalf of the country and the nation. Similarly, members of the Parliament and classes that will be judged by their actions, and the government's opposition will be evaluated according to their actions. So it will continue to be divided in this room. But even though the right to argument is important - and it may be said that Iceland and I know how to use it - we have made it clear in our efforts that we can stick together when we are in great need. For a while, we've been watching the fire station under Eagle Bay. From recent years' experience, we know what bad things under ice can cause, and history from previous centuries tells of human loss, population, and demolition. Snow and other disasters are also known to us through bitter experience, but in the face of the unseen forces of nature, we have felt the power of solidarity. And that power we can always use to improve our community, in all things. Today, there is hope that we will be at a turning point: far and no farther, heard worldwide. Shortly before Congress, newly elected generals condemned sexual harassment and violence. The same voices are heard everywhere, the message is simple and clear: here and no further; the overflow will no longer be passed. We have to listen, we have to do better, we live together in this society. What are some of the ways in which we can apply the words of a poet Elísabet Jökulsdóttir? There are all kinds of normal men, Even my friends, complaining about this circulating wave. They say, You can't do anything, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. To them I'd like to say, nothing at all, you're asking permission for everything: Can I show you what I'm writing? Can I have the toothpaste, please? Can I have the milk? Can I quote you? Can I come and see you? Can I give you a hug, let me borrow your hat? And no means no. Here, it doesn't matter which category they stand, the cause is strong, the need for them. In spite of all our differences, all our differences in ideals, let us stand together on the basis of our community - justice and human rights, openness, tolerance and individual freedom, compassion and compassion, equality, the well - being and the protection of all people against all forms of oppression and strife. When I say so, I beg the generals to remember the foster world by rising from their seats. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, the daughter of Katrin, the daughter of Jacob, and said, Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]] According to Article 1. Congress must be conducted by the most permanent member of Congress until the election is made by the President of the Generals. That's why I'm asking the 2nd. That's the north side. "Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to walk to Presidential chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14.u2	I'm offering everybody what? All council members elected at the General election on October 28, 2017, are welcome to work at the General Assembly. In particular, I welcome newly elected members of the council who were not here when the General of the United States retired. Now there are some special times here in the second year in a row, times in which the projects are urgent. It has been shown that with good intentions and cooperation, much work can be done. In view of the hope that the work of this newly formed council will be a country and nation's welfare. On behalf of us generals, I greet the staff of the Generals and expect us to cooperate with them, as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14.u3	Since the last meeting, one former general has died and will now be remembered. Pálmi Jónsson, former General and Minister, died in a hospital here in Reykjavík on October 9, U.S.A. with long-term illness. He was 88 years old. Pálmi Jónsson was born on Akri in Torfaskáfjords on November 11, 1929. His parents were Jónína Valgerður Ólafsdóttir, Mistress Jón Pálmason, farmer, and minister, and long president of a united General. Pálmi grew up in Akri, a regular country worker. He completed his SAT exam from Hólar 1948 and became a farmer on Akri from 1953. In that country, he quickly acted, even becoming a member of the local community. The chairman of the horse's hardware business and later became a member of the dragon - known Torfa Creekepepps. For a time he was chairman of the Earth, a company of young independents of the East Huns' County. Then, in the summer of 1967, Pálmi took up the Art of the Independence Party in the Northern District of the West and was elected General of the Parliaments that year. He spent 28 years at the General Assembly for 1995 sitting at a total of 31 legislatures. Pálmi became a agricultural minister in February 1980 in the government of Gunnar Thoroddsens, thus serving in May 1983. During his reigns of Congress, Pálmi was in many governments and advisers in areas where he used most; agriculture, energy, settlements, and money. He was head of state bills for a while, and president of the Bank of Living Bank of Iceland and the establishment of the Bank of Bank for the last few years at his council and several years thereafter. At the General Assembly, Pálmi Jónsson served as an agricultural committee, as well as with other committees, and found himself a powerful spokesman wherever he was elected to sit. He was chairman of a financial committee for several years, and later a vice president of the legal committee, making great progress in this regard. By his work, his hard work, his moderate presentation, and his clear viewpoints, Pálmi, made it his way to travel to the council. But he did not always take the lead, and for a time he did things differently but always gained confidence and popularity in the provinces and among his voters. Pálmi Jónsson was always exhilarating and zealous, he was a sportsman's figure, and he was well - mannered and dignified. He was clean and light - tempered and had good dealings with people. Pálmi, though, was a real person and stuck to it when it was changing. His comments and gestures impressed on many of his companions, and the memories of those whom he met were still warm. With Pálmi Jónsson, a powerful spokesman for the farmers and the country. I ask a council to remember Pálmi Jónsson of Paðon by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14.u4	According to 2 mg. 1st par. The Parliament shall now appoint nine members of the committee to test the election and the election of the newly elected senators and the deputy council members. Borist has a list of the names of Birgir Ármannsson's son Birgir Þórarinsson, Bjöl Björn the Valdimarsson of Gunnarsson, Brondi Haraldsdóttir, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jón Dídídímsson, Hjaltason Gauti Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar, Árnadóttir Turnadnadótir, and Egilsdóttir Egilssondótir. Since there are no other nominees than votes, I shall declare the former members of the General Assembly of the Court on the Advisory Committee. The Board of Staff is due in 15 minutes to the conference room of the prime committee. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members and guests to accept the occasion of the Lord's Evening Meal. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to take me to the front.
