ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u1	Borist's letter has been written by Jón St. Valdimarsson, 13th. We're out of here. "Where it is said that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So on Thursday, May 25, at Arms 1, a deputy of the Summit Summit, Sigrún Ingibjörg Gísladóttir. Her letter has been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly and is therefore to sign her vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u2	Sigrún Ingibjörg Gísladóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u3	A respectable president. On this day, I would like to talk about the activities of the council during the last days. They reflect the coming final day that is near at hand. I have made a comment to this chair in the past that I thought it would be better for me to negotiate a lawsuit and to conclude a council instead of the traditional long discussions that are being held at the council right now. True, they have been good, but I think it's important that we try to negotiate the end of the council together, do this with the dignity due to the council. I'm not blaming one or no one that the situation is like this, but I think we all need to take it to us to find common results at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u4	Just take the lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u5	I want to... too. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u6	Take the lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u7	- Yeah, I'll do it. I'd probably have finished the council by then. I'd also like to say about the discussion in the community over the past few days, about putting control of the Land Hospital, that it is surprising how sensitive the hospital officials are to it. For about eight years, I was in the Western Hospital administration, but hospitals in the region of the country were deposed in the year 2000. I'm completely convinced that the hospital had a big comeback when these home governments were decapitated. I think it's a business to roll around. 60 billion with 5,000 workers, 4,000 standards, really need to be in control. Not that I don't doubt those who are in charge of the hospital right now, but it's only natural for the owners to come to the company to help... [[Beautiful vision...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u8	Everywhere...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u9	Absolutely, yeah. We just agree on that, so I suggest that the discussion will continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u10	A respectable president. May 17th. The whole of East and Southeast areas of the area became heavily power failures and power outlets in the south of the village. The lack of electricity lasted two to three hours. It was attributed to a leak in the plant of a suspect on the other side of the country. This is not the first time that power outage in the East can be traced to the failures of other parts of the country. Such a lack of electricity has not occurred in the capital area for more than 25 years, for the better distribution system is strong. Happily, then, the majority of the population are not personally aware of the tremendous damage caused by such disturbances. The interference was in the morning, the career was in full swing, and the damage is complex. It will interfere with all production and services. In addition, damage to expensive equipment and hours of work will be lost. Direct damage is much or indirectly similar, including to initiate production processes and computer systems in fishery, dairy stations, melts, freezers, health services, trade, travel services when everyone is checking out in the morning, aluminium, schools, etc. The damage is considered not only in centenarians but also with high levels of energy waste and waste of environmental quality. Of course, this situation should take place in 2017 only under unscrupulous weather conditions or natural disasters beyond our control. It's not that this can only happen in the East, it can happen in many parts of the country. So I've asked for it at what. The Environment and Transport Committee will consider the situation in particular on the Committee and they will include: to see if anyone has the responsibility to assess the overall damage caused by such disturbances and government work to increase the security of electricity distribution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u11	A respectable president. With the end of the council and only three meetings left to be met, the days will be reduced to the questions made by members of Congress. So I'd like to ask the president if it would be a reason for us to examine this interaction between the council and the executive, because it seems to me that a quick review of the more than 100 inquiries that have been proposed that only ten have been answered within the 15 active days that the Convention is to be respected. There's a time limit set by law. It's not just some protocol that's broken. The same law says that a minister cannot answer a request within this delay, he should make it in writing. From the experience I have with my inquiries, it's like this Nicefififi fifi-fii-fii to guess. In addition, he should explain why the delay is and when to expect an answer to the Council, which is hardly ever to be expected. I have full sympathy for those who fail to fulfill their deadlines, but they must at least be able to adapt these communications so that we know when the answers are held back. Then this raises a natural question about whether sometimes the answers are unpleasant. Some of the questions are like that. It took one 13 months to file a report on Iceland's property in a foreign country, and it was delayed, even. through elections because it was an unpleasant truth. Is there anything on this list as uncomfortable? Is e.g. uncomfortable for the Ministry of Education and Culture to respond to a request for the staff of the U.S.U., a question that is now tripled? Is there something in which the minister doesn't want a light of the day at this point? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u12	Madam President. I'd like to do here to talk about what I'd like to call the government's unfashionable entry to the Land Hospital ◯ University hospital. It turns out that the government forces have been running behind the scenes with ideas of setting up some kind of political government or general overcrowding the governor of the Land Hospital. It is evident that new rulers do not like that the Landspians have done what they deserve; they have informed a council and a nation of the real status of the Hospital. This does not go well with new rulers, who, though, have spoken more of professional practices, transparency, and so on. The Management Board is to be put in charge of the Land Hospital and they should stop coming and introduce their affairs here, etc. That is what has been presented in these discourses. It's called the highest. Secretary of the budget that every real company has control, every real company. That's a strange attitude. Is the Landsaholic just some Corp. Out there, just a business? No, the Landsaholic is a mother's station in the Icelandic medical system, and the Landsaholic is a university hospital, a academic institution. Should political administration over the academic freedom of the Land Hospital also be established at the university hospital? Where are the men going? It is quite so with the obligatory fact that the Department of Social Affairs and the head of Social Services are on the lead for this attack that the Land Hospital, arguing with the governor of the Land Hospital, attempting to question the information they have set out and, of course, go very hard at it, because the Landspians have run every word into the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. It would be one thing if the General Assembly agreed to recommence a work committee or a similar committee that served as the Committee for the Kingdom Hospital in its time, which was made up of the representatives of all classes and professional directors of the Land Hospital, with the involvement of employees and medical councils and with the management of the hospital, but this is not part of the program. No, it's supposed to put in place a government that controls and silences the responsible professional managers. [[The president calls.]] It won't be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u13	A respectable president. In Smokeytown, artist Hallmundur Kristinsson. He is not only an excellent artist and a team of music but also a well - written writer. He writes a great fiction that I'm going to do here and then he says, by permission of a president: ▪ Such as three o'clock. Councilmen have asked to give an answer to a talk. A senator will thus be reduced to one minute in speech. First of all, why not? Tenth. Northeast Jón West, Guðmundsson. V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefanía Stefánsdóttir for an excellent talk In her speech, she mentioned that the government had gone to the top of ice in its government of the country. Now I want to ask you why. A senator if he doesn't agree with me about the fact that the government has kind of crapped it. That'll answer the question. Thirteenth. Reykjavík Precinct East Stefanía Stefania Stefánsdóttir V.E.G. President. Thank you. Jón Guðmundur Guðmundsson for the inquiry. Now I want to try to answer his question to the best of my ability during the short time I have been given in this answer. Yes, I agree with the senator that it can be said that the government has just crapped its back and it can actually be said that she has everything on her mind. I see now that my time is running out, so that answer will be enough. I see that here in the hall is amused, and for good reason, it's both fun reading, but also tragic. This is what's happening to the General Assembly of the Icelanders. You see, this is a lack of a normal conversation between government and government, and I think we have to make things right together with a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u14	V.E.G. President. I'd like to take a moment to address the comments this has been given on an idea that has been mentioned regarding some kind of government over a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital. I was reviewing it in my mind that two decades ago or so, maybe a little longer, then, by the government, which I supported, I believe have done many good things, a course that went out of reducing the governments of public institutions which were, if you might say, the general rule over the years before there are few people today. This was in accordance with a ideologies of the new government, and in the early 1990's, the Government Committee of the Kingdom Hospitals was among the governments laid down at that time. I don't think people need to panic if they wonder if there is any reason to disappear in some way from the current course. I think governments over the government can be useful and can be a source of strength to them. I think there must be an assessment in each case and I don't think we can rule out a discussion about it, especially in the case of such a major institution that plays an important role, such as the National Hospital ◯ University Hospital. [[Is it, uh... my opinion?]] Therefore, I welcome the discussion that has been started here on the subject and hope that we can develop it with the goal of strengthening and strengthening this institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u15	A respectable president. Now at the end of the council, I am trying to appreciate the success of a new assembly. Then I tend to look to the promised new ones, but no matter how hard I try, I can't see what's different from before, except for one thing; participation in the highest. Secretary of finance, discussing his case at the council. More like that, please. The rest is endless. The season begins with a raise and a lie. Pension rights are taken from people because they are conservative, sailors are threatened with legalization of a strike, just when the strike begins to matter for the money, prime minister breaks equality laws and excuses himself by falsifying the story. [[Up front.]] Billions of mistakes had to be settled because of the hurrying of the council at the end of the last election. Now that we're back in the Senate work, we're again trying to cram over the council. The bill of a equally paid witness is not ready, the conclusion of a financial plan is not prepared, and the increase in Kingdom responsibility of 4.7 billion is required to push through the council, although it is known that a portion of the loan is needed. The government's going to take an extra loan, the government that's going to reduce debt is going to take extra loans for V.A. Pass, and it's going to have to cancel some of the loans. The cost falls on the wealth of the state and all the people of the country. Good job. An honest way to complete this tunnel would be either to sell it as it was supposed to be, or to take the tunnel over, as is inevitable, and simply to put it on budgets. But it can't, it takes the capital of the district on other projects. As a result, there will be no new idealapots project, it would prevent politics as usual. Honest work is making professional plans in cooperation with the partner and sticking to them. Part of a new job response, continued payment of incomplete bills, and continued ballot - was that your idea of a new process?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u16	President. In view of the shortness of this council, I feel confident that I will not be allowed to recommend for a synopsis that I, along with others, may not be recommended. Councilmen have submitted an overall review of legal laws, though there is a great need to be done. So I wanted to use this opportunity in the council to encourage the highest order. The Minister of Justice to start formal work despite the fact that the Council has not given her orders. It is urgent, Madam President, to remove legal discrimination from legal law allowing depravity on one basis that a person may suffer from a mental illness. It is urgent to start formal work on a total review of that law. It is urgent to work on improvement in the rights of unscrupulous offenders, and it is very important to keep a promise of validation of OPCAT, which requires the independent monitoring agencies on the affairs of freedom fairs as well as the self - size of a long term human rights institution. Also, I would like to encourage the highest. Healthcare Minister to set up a regulation on forced treatment and forced medication that is still lacking in the legal law but is authorized by the health minister without the approval of the council. I believe that it is fundamental to correct matters that a health minister can do for some people, although not at work. I think it's necessary, Madam President. It must be put in the priority of law changes and regulations which further protect the rights of this minority in our community. Laws about abortion that weigh sexual freedom from disabled women must be placed in the first place. So I want to encourage the highest. Ministers, health Ministers and Justice Ministers, to put these matters first, and to compromise the direction I seem to be using an electronic bill and a steroid bill and to stop the delay of corrective effects. It is more about to impair the right to treat individuals than to improve them. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to improve the legal protection of this group because if human rights are put to wait, it is usually the minorities that suffer, as we know. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u17	V.E.G. President. Tonight, when negotiations fail to improve the quality of the part - time workers, the reports of hospital transportrs at the National Institute of Health and Health in the United States take effect. If this occurs, there is a very serious medical facility in the medical field. The Building Council of Mixotown has challenged the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics to complete a collective agreement with these parties and that treaties will be in accordance with the commitment and responsibilities involved in the work. The head of the National Health Organization is also challenged to coordinate the pay of the partial care providers in the field of the medical facility, but medical transport officials in the United States feel that they have not been seated at the same level as other health care providers. Also, the laid - out Council points out that the part - time worker for the medical facility is 23 of which are in the Bautilus, Dalvík, Redfarve, and Thors Harbor, as well as a part of the relief workers in Húsavík. In addition, part of the demand for part - time medical workers on the preparation of ose is concluded that there is an inconsistencies between pay and the pay of part - time ambulances in the field of the medical facility. I'm going to face the challenge of a Continental Research Council, and I'm at the highest rate. Economic and financial ministers sitting in this room right now and the highest. A minister of well-being to go to the project and reach a satisfactory agreement with the medical personnel involved in this procedure. It is very important that these contracts succeed, these are the security of the patients and of those living in the territory that will be covered by these reports of the ambulances. The fact is that health - care services have gathered in many parts of the country in recent years, and in many cases, people need to rely on the services of ambulances, and the situation of these types is unsettled. So I'm here again and again, using this opportunity in the council, reminding me of the importance of the implementation of health - care priorities for our candidates. We must define what services are being offered in many medical institutions throughout the country and work accordingly. This proposal awaits only a vote at the council, and every discussion on the matter has already taken place so that I encourage it to be a vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u18	Madam President. To be reasonable, it is not unusual to do so, though three categories of government, such as the generals, who seemed to be different from elections, make compromises to form government. It was noted, however, that one group got all their cases through, while the other two fully bent into the dust. Make a covenant of government in which their pain limit appeared. Although they were different, you honestly believed that the management list of projects would be followed by 2020. Two months later, a national financial program appeared to 2,202, two years further into the future than the political treaty. Then you would have intended to keep all the goals of the latter and to do better. But it isn't, Madam President. Immediately in the government covenant, an election promise began to begin, especially a restoration and a bright future. On March 31, it was so clear that the groups did not even trust to stand up to the general, inexplicable, and repugnant text of the Law covenant, which did not find their way in. To bite her head off the shame, members of the government rebel, not trusting to finance the financial program, give her a drop - score, but still intend to approve of it, likely confident that the nation will accept three broken promises in one year, and it is recommended to put political ◯agenta in charge of the Land Hospital. V.E.G. Secretary of finance. What would it be called if a parent in January gave his child a bicycle, two months later revealed that it really meant ice cream, and when it got out of the way, it really meant a caramel? That would be called fraud, the highest. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u19	A respectable president. I'll come up here to discuss some news that has come up with the Ministers' suggestions on housing matters coming up and hopefully to be introduced in the next few days. The report noted that one of the points considered was to negotiate with rural areas in the capital area. I rejoice that this is the case, for there is a petition from rural areas in the capital area, in Reykjavík and Kópavogur, to buy property to build on. In this regard, the following sites have been mentioned: Koldur, Keldnaholt, the Landland Guard Zone, and the weights around Iceland's Weather Service. It has been noted that Kópavogsburgh buys land on the Hill of Waters and has also been called a box around the Sólvester School, City Hospital, and South Street/Hring Way. I would also like to encourage the government to see if there is any chance of being settled back down with fellow rural areas in the Vifilsland and the Cutthroat to ensure that these areas will be actually new to build on apartment housing. That there will be not only the highest market price but the opportunity for individuals, not just big contractors, but also individuals, to build. In view of the fact that the government has spoken of itself as an equal government, I expect a minister of finance and others to attend the EM in the summer of the Netherlands, where our female nationals will no doubt be as successful as they have in recent races. At the same time, a special rural society called Almere Poort, which has been very successful in ensuring the diversity and high supply of weights and contributes to the increased growth of individual or small contractors based on a variety of living facilities. I have no doubt that the Minister of Equal Opportunities would personally be interested in going there, for I understand that he has at least some experience in building himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u20	V.E.G. President. The employment board on the union of marine crops, or the thong and sea bill, is out of the picture, but not in general terms, unfortunately. This bill was at the end of the last terms, pushed off the board in the 11th hour. The primary work of the bill is that a Marine Research Institute will be committed to research on marine growth and to be a consultant to the government on how to use it, i.e. The development of the icicle and its population will be dropped under observation under the fish - control legislation. Residents from specific areas will be subject to licenses and will be given a catch fee on the land of the fish and the sea. In addition, regrowth will be assessed after use and how much these species can be taken in whole and post-regional areas to sustainable use. Summing up the evidence that the bill made it critical that there are no fundamental reasons to protect the biodiversity of sustainable innovation. Similar views were expressed from other parties, which emphasized the importance of assessing the effects of the whole ecosystems, including on crabs, bottom animals, birds, fish, mammals, etc. There was an concern about how your heart rate affects the growth of gray objects and other forms of waste. Of course, the importance of assessing the effects of ecosystems should be taken into account. The bill does not include making room for individual sources and legislators to start functioning in this field. These are deep - seated jobs for the last 40 years that have been considered to be in good terms with nature. Similarly, this bill must be examined in view of the fact that there are no rules on this use today. The bill gives clear messages that monitoring should be performed at the same time as research will be expanded and maximum control in individual areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u21	A respectable president. The local newspaper can sometimes be beautifully green in our eyes, fighting for sustainable uses of nature. There I read a summary of a talk at the top. Environment Minister, Björt Ólafsdóttir, at the educational policy of the National Institute of Innunciation, and then I listened to a similar positive environmental talk at the Iceland Natural Science Agency annual meeting on Wednesday. At the same meeting, it was noted that the Agency has endured a recession on income due to the noise of the state. Four years in spite of increased work assignments. It also showed that the values have declined progressively for several years. This is the agency to monitor progress in Iceland's nature. When the high words of the Environment Minister and this reality are compared, we can see how badly the government's financial policy rhymes with its declarations. This example sums up a total of three years of 1.6 billion contribution to the environment and two years of 300 billion. K. cuts make the policy of the government of these substances a kind of environmental disaster, i.e. if you see. And what do we do in this matter - it's a conscience question, why? Councilmen - to five years of age? So, finally, in the spirit of conversation, I'm going to challenge it. The council members in this room, and preferably more, give me a reply in the debate on the terms of the financial affairs that follow and even next week if they continue to look, because while I am very fond of government officials, it would be a great difference to see or hear others in this important matter, which is the government's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u22	Madam President. I'm only going to talk about the government's position and plans, who they are and who they aren't, and testify to the meeting of the National Security Council that was published in the days where one and another comes out supporting what we've been saying, left green and more government opposers, in the pitture of the intervening process. A national budget plan. You will see, however, that a prime minister who said at the meeting that this year's increase in money was far beyond what could be expected over a longer period of time and far beyond what could be expected to last longer. He also noted that the laws on public finances have become a major influence. Instead of making arrangements for the government's income in November to be paid by the end of the year, they would be in the spring and take up many years. Therefore, it would be vital that financial programs always appear in the spring, as legally established, and be handled successfully. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that the emphasis on a government budget is on subsidies, maintenance of business, and wise control of the government's investments. This is what we've been living with, and we've seen it appear in the budget. The Mosaic Law includes the Law covenant. tax that the role of the tax system for mutual expenditure should be reinforced. How? By supporting a money policy committee? No, that is not to be done. That is to be done by paying taxes. Now the Independence Party or the greater part has said that he is not going to support the rise in taxes on travel, but it has not been reported that he refuses to support the reduction in the value of taxation level, i.e. from 24% to 22.5%. [[The president calls.]] Here we are once again weakening the government's revenues but not being fortified to live up to the common consumption that was promised for elections by all groups, to strengthen the interior parts of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u23	Madam President. The government that now sits has one person more part of it and a smaller part of the vote behind him. You would expect that situation to go to the top. The government is very aware that it needs to be careful and listened by its actions. So I have to say, after all that has been said about wide communication and conversation, I have been surprised to say that the government is not really telling us where it intends to go in health matters in the field of health care. It's been hard to get a clear view from the highest. Government. However, it is constantly cited that the Mosaic Law speaks of a wide variety of business forms. I want to point the highest. The government should, according to a new study, favor Icelanders with a vast majority of the social services of health care, i.e. Health systems that are funded and organized not only by the public but also by government and by key operating units. Socially controlled healthcare systems, which best address access to services, with the lowest relative costs, best public health. That should be the best. Government listening. The government should listen to tests that show the best health systems. She should listen for less than 92% of Iceland's population wants more money into the health system, 86% want to be expelled from the public hospital, and nearly 80% want public health care to be fired. A majority of the supporters agree with these views. V.E.G. Of course, governments should always listen. But the highest. A government that now sits can't afford to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u24	V.E.G. President. I'm in the President's conference board to make serious comments during the absence. Minister in the budget discussion. In fact, at the highest. Under the most exciting discussion, the secretary of finance would commend the session. Senators on the State budget, but I make special comments in absence at the highest level. Secretary of education and the highest. A health minister, but a great deal of criticism has been given to the lawsuits they are responsible for. I know, however, that the highest. He or she is not at the council this week, but he who should be aware that this week would be a national financial programme for discussion and further suggestions on how to discuss the matter. So it's very bad at the top. Ministerial servants do not attend and try to take the notes as a matter of course. Congress is suggested in the debate on the budget program and is taking the important messages presented in the public address. I'm on top of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u25	President. I'd like to take a hint. Senator. I would like to ask the president if, in view of the fact that the health issues that would focus on that government and its priorities, we can actually complete a discussion of the budget of government for other reasons than the fact that it is in the first place. There are very severe hardships in the group, starving financial policy, and, in fact, there is a strain on health - care management, on the contrary to the promises of elections and the words of an empty government contract. Now the head of the Land Hospital has apparently said too much, in the opinion of the government groups, and there has been an idea of putting a quiet government over the hospital. A respectable president. It is unacceptable now that the group of litigators is so upset during the discussion that a health minister is absent during a week's discussion. I ask the president: Is it not true that while the health minister is not here to participate in the discussion, we can hardly complete a financial discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u26	Madam President. I can't help but agree with them why. Councilmen who have spoken, for this is, of course, the highest government case to discuss, which should determine its course to the next five years. Certainly we managed to hurt some of the others. After pointing out in the public address that their participation is virtually zero, the members of the Governing Body are participating in the discussion. A couple of them came anyway. Senators and I appreciate them the best thanks for coming up and trying to have a conversation here, because the Council is supposed to be about conversation. To me, it's a little tricky, though it's the best. The minister of finance has sat here and was very grateful to be under the discussion, that he does not have much of a share in the discussion, I hope he listens to them much more. He does not see a reason for answering the directors of the opposing parties when they arise and criticize his plan. In fact, no one ever saw a sledgehammer. A member of the board of directors has reason to do so. I wondered, " What is it? ' Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of the government are afraid, since they seem afraid to participate in discussions about their major issues. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps because there is such a nonsenseing dispute in a house about the very plan that every time it appears here, a senator will come from the greater part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u27	A respectable president. It was kind of sad to watch the highest. The minister of finance sits alone in a chamber, not just for a few minutes, but even for hours, in which he received no support from his government forces. Prime Minister is naturally long lost, no one knows where he is, he can hardly be seen here. The same applies to health ministers. V.E.G. A health minister has basically given up on the project, plans to get some government so that he may be able to come out of hiding. It's not possible. This is where we're talking about the financial program that affects all society's demands. All of us are well prepared to participate in that discussion, and I will be thanking the chairman of the budget committee and the legal committee for making the decision to refer the program to the professional committees. We've been working and we've been discussing this case, and this is exactly the scene to take up this important piece of work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or are directors simply saying that the budget is of no importance?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u28	Madam President. I want to agree with this. I miss the Ministers from this discussion, not only on behalf of the government but also on behalf of the members of the government, for the unexpected has happened that this is not this traditional diacre, a convergence between government and government opposition. Now the Ministers of one team, the opposition to another, and then the general members of the government are also against the government's plots. I don't expect that, and I don't expect all our views to be taken into consideration. But the highest. Ministers owe at least fellow soldiers sitting as private members of the Parliament are responding to the indications and falloffs given in the majority of committees'opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u29	Madam President. I wanted to agree with my colleagues. It's amazing that we're discussing financial plans for the next five years, and a minister doesn't have a proper share in the conversation, especially for me on a welfare committee, that there is no health minister. It would have been incredibly helpful and helpful for the process all to come up and ask him and to hear how he thinks about it, especially since his part of financial plan has been extremely critical. It's the last half of the council and it's weird that he's not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u30	A respectable president. A discussion about financial programmes has been going on for two days, which is no wonder. This is the third day, this is the most important policy discussion of the budget. The budget is being reassigned from autumn to this time, and the purpose is to make policy, Madam President, policy of the legislature. A suggestion comes from the Commission, and it is the lawgiver who makes the box. If it were quite clear that the policy presented here was not critical except for us in our smaller parts, if the case wasn't that the administrative sector, the legislators in the hall, severely criticized, as indicated by the majority of the body members of the legal committee and the rest of the document proposed here, we might not have to have a discussion with a minister. [[The president calls.]] But when there is a fundamental difference between the private members of Congress and the executives, the Ministers, they must be desirable in this discussion because it is too late to do so in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u31	Madam President. I will not commend those who sit in the hall, for they have the same law as with the other members of the council. Rather, I would like to show how few people are in the hall in this discussion about the largest case in the government, which should be a harvest festival but is so far from being one, since the management personnel show no understanding in all their references to what is stated in this program. They think it's as bad as us. Maybe that's why the Ministers don't have enough to stand here. Perhaps that is why a health minister has fled to Switzerland, in a neutral area, so that he does not have to explain to his associates why he is going to cut health issues. At the same time, he might apologize for how the people of the World Health Organization are being counseled on the alcohol network, but he may be using them at night. And of course, a high school minister doesn't come here to explain why he has four-fold cut-offs at the high school. [[The president calls.]] Has he ever explained to his companions why he became involved in the government's fight on the limited amount of money that the highest. Money Ministers don't give me any doses? Why did Kristján lose Þór Júlíusson in government hunger?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u32	A respectable president. Sometimes I feel like I'm the Tumi grasshopper of this government. I sit on her shoulder and remind her to follow the right and good customs, not to roll over the Council, and to show some respect for the Allied. It's okay. The story of Gosi is good, and I'll take this role. But this is by no means possible. What's the bottom line? Health Minister on committee opinion. The Gaming Committee? I have no idea. I haven't heard him say one word about it and not at all here. How do other counselors feel about that view and the words that come from a·gaʹpe? Officers? Should we respond to that statement? We have no idea. The government's going to run this case through without listening to us in the government position, it's just as usual, they don't think much of our language coming, and they don't even listen to him, but when they don't even listen to their own management, you start to wonder why they're sitting on top of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u33	Madam President. I have no idea what the biggest thing is. The health minister is out of the country. All I know is he's gone all week. I hope, of course, he's not doing anything wrong, in contrast to the highest. The prime minister who crashed into the NATO meeting and suddenly promised them more money for the military service from Iceland. There was money then. But they do not exist in the medical system. There is no more to it than to draw something from NATO without consulting with a council and a nation. Both of these ministers, the highest. Prime Minister as Director of the Government, and especially the highest. Of course, a health minister with so much value here should be at the discussion so that they could be asked questions and asked for their attitude, including the following: to the Commission's opinion of more of the legal committee. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannesson, it is too late to communicate with the Ministers in the fall. Then, what has become the case? The word that dissociation in an appendix that even the Council cannot bring about change proposals. [[The president calls.]] This discussion with the Ministers needs to be conducted now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of Parliament who have spoken here. I especially miss a health minister in this discussion, and I don't have the opportunity to meet him during the days I sit at a council right now because he is absent during this important discussion. But I understand the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, as well as the Minister of Regional Affairs, stays far away. As with their lawsuits, they try to stay away from this financial program, in case they were asked questions about the issues they hear, do not speak about academic and cultural matters in the ideal minister of education. There we can point to various things that are incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u35	Madam President. That was an excellent arrangement for a previous envelope. for the government's financial plan that a minister could be consulted there in the plan. It was a good time to have this conversation with the Ministers, and I feel that the Council, and I want to direct it to the highest level. President, I think we should look at the work. Now that all members of the Senate have taken a step in matters, there is a real need to have a conversation with the highest level. Minister. Therefore, it is shocking how far they have been in the discussion and myself would I, for example, have been. I'd very much like to have a conversation with the highest. Health Minister on what he has to say about the proposal to establish control the Land Hospital. I think we need to look at these tactics because it's a big issue of the government that's being discussed and then we have to be able to have access to advisers to talk to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u36	Madam President. I think it's pretty clear that the case is not arranged until everyone has come in and participated in the discussions. The majority of legal hearings say, by permission of the president: ▪ This financial program indicates that new things have not had enough time to prepare and implement financial programs for the next year. ... It is far off to say that the procedure and work on the new setting is acceptable... Therefore, the government has had a very short time to prepare the situation, bearing any marks, whether it is viewed by its own financial plans or by the aims of its individual causes. It is then taken over for a team, and the government has taken over from the rulers. However, while the committee finds out about that remarkable conclusion on page 30. 19 That it does not comment on the synopsis, I think it is based primarily on the traditional intervening slavery of senators to Ministers and Governments and fears of the need for a new election. [[The president calls.]] I think we should take some time to talk about this place all the time in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u37	Madam President. I cannot help but agree, especially in view of the fact that for the first time we are fixing this arrangement, i.e. The law on government finance and how we conduct it. It would have been a great idea for ministers to be seated here for answers, although they had not been given to do so unless there had been some particular time. I think one of the things we need to discuss next is how we're going to do this, whether there's gonna be a special time for each minister, or how it's gonna be. I think the majority of councilmen talk lightly about a budget plan as if changing it won't be a problem in the fall. It's just a plan, it's not a law. That is true, but we are still talking about the same frame of money, that is not increasing money, so the House members also have to explain what they say in their majority - aluminium and what language group is open to. It hasn't been shown. [[The president calls.]] They haven't come to our attention to say, "It's no big deal, we can fix this, for example. with high school by taking money here, we can put it there. But this has not been accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u38	V.E.G. President. I just have to agree with it. My deputies have talked about here. We can't complete this discussion on a budget plan until the highest level. A health minister sees himself in the hall and participates in the discussion as well as at the highest level. Secretary of education. That's what I'm saying because I have a seat in my head. The General welfare Committee. In the material outworking of the case there, capital differences to be made in the seminary were called upon, called upon how to meet the goals set out in a financial programme, but the data were not obtained. It is therefore very important to do so. He or she will gather here and answer the important questions asked by members of the Committee about meeting what is to be presented in a financial programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u39	A respectable president. I just want to point out that the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is next to the rosary, so if you want to get a vision of the Government's Minister on the government's terms, I think it would be better to listen to what he has to offer than to care for what we're doing now. I must also say that although I know that it is a tradition to find that ministers are not present, in this case it is clear that the health minister has a perfectly legitimate and legitimate advantage in meeting his colleagues by the World Health Organization. I don't think we should play with it when men do it. I have a dream for myself that Iceland will be even more active in international cooperation, e.g. in the European Union, and if it becomes reality, the absence will be as this rule, not an exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u40	Madam President. It is true that ministers have obligations in the country and abroad. I remember the time in the service of the directors in 2009-2013 that ministers were called home from abroad because it was important that they were here for a discussion. We're talking about something very important, the highest case in the government. I wouldn't think of anything unusual before we've recorded the discussion at the council that a health minister would come to answer the questions that have been raised. I'd also like to think that there are many people discussing a better financial plan because the knowledge of the Parliament by a changed work ethic is more than ever before. It's good. But I want, for example. can talk to the highest level. A minister of education for why he decides to force students to make a wide range of studies by making sure that Hallorm School will no longer be a people. Will he do the same with the House Control School in Reykjavík? Will we shut down this study? Why does the health minister not stand up to the reduction in ambulances in the Grinch? [[The president calls.]] Or to the fact that the Hun Lakes don't work with medical personnel? These are big issues that are extremely important to society. Why does he not want to contribute to a social health system that was in the news magazine yesterday discussing how much better it would be? We don't have any answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u41	Madam President. As senators have observed, I have observed the interesting discussions about the financial program. There have been many good talks and no bad ones. Today, however, it was only on Wednesday. I wanted to inform the United Nations that I could not change certain meetings that I have to go to outside the Senate hall and ask the members of Congress to respect it for the better, that I will not be able to attend all the discussion today. But I'll be as long as I possibly can because I find this interesting. And as many fine senators have noted, listening to what the senators have to say is of great value.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u42	Madam President. I must say, there is a considerably higher demand for this speech than I had anticipated. It certainly puts on me a certain amount of pressure. I also know what is right, that the senators, and especially the council members, will sit in the hall and listen carefully. It is a joy to have an opportunity to discuss the government's financial plans, its policies, and its prospects. I would like to begin the discussion with the wide lines of the government covenant, which include the following: appearing in the budget, but not all, but interestingly keeping in mind a discussion about the plan itself. It is extremely important for us to build here on a solid foundation. It gives us the opportunity, however, to promote the basics of society, to promote the fundamentals of the health and welfare systems. It is of utmost importance that we create here a powerful competitive living standard for the future. There is one of the main points in the government contract, because I have listened to the discussions here at the council that is called for political vision, and it did not exist or that there was a great need. There I so warmly disagree with those who have thus spoken, for this very government has entered a power that has spoken and made it clear in the government's covenant the importance of caring for the foundations, that we provide the soil of a powerful, good career life that creates here a powerful and high level of well - being, because the welfare system is always on the social scale. It is not so, as you might sometimes think of the less part of the budget plan, that we have no limit on how far we can go in taxation, that we have no limit on how much we can add to the state expenditures in all things. During the discussion, you miss the fact that they lack all responsibility for the criticism. Of course, it is inexpensive to criticize all that is said and done in this program when the big words never need to be fulfilled. Here we are developing a national financial programme that includes a very large increase in the rate of pay paid for Kingdom interests in addition to the significant increase already being made, ensuring the budget enough to contribute, while contributing to the main goals of money policy, to the maintenance of the economy, to contribute to the more important things, that we can here reduce the interest level, which is all too high. This government has also put first the important issue of reevaluating the long - term money policy in order to promote stability, which contributes again to a more varied, more efficient, professional life and better support under the welfare system, in order to contribute to a lower interest level for the homes of the country. In international context, we today compete for the rest of our world. Our young people can educate and work wherever they choose. If we are not made rich creating a competitive, competitive interest level, a competitive pay level, and so on, we will be prepared to compete in that competition and will lose out on the few of us. Of course, we must never do so. Thus, in the political debate, politicians often talk about being created in this room. Of course, that is far from true. However, we can create the soil. We can create the setting. We can make sure that our business life here and home is living in a constant environment that is comparable to a low interest level in our neighboring countries. What a grand theme of the government covenant of this government! In terms, financial programmes, and in terms of the importance of my Ministry and my company. It is a little special to watch and listen to the discussion about cutting down expenses on welfare at the same time as it is evident that there is a significant increase in government spending on the time of this budget. Clearly, the priorities involve all the welfare, health, older, and desperate matters. It is by far the largest increase, and it is in all the basic elements of action, with the emphasis that my company, exorbitant, put in the contingency of elections, in the campaign itself. I don't think that if ever there was ever so much effort in the case. The increase in health during the 2017 budget period is 42 billion. On a yearly basis, there is a 22.5% increase. For the well - being, the annual increase is 28 billion, by 15%. It takes a creative accountant to call it a welfare cuts when it's obvious to thirst for increase, if we look for an overall expansion in a five-year financial program, these two groups are on the move. However, in everyday speech it seems to be called a basic surgery on the health system. It's very difficult for me to see compatible facts. In this discussion, the government's opposition is at a high rate that the restoration has sacrificed all its major policies in order to achieve the same pay-off as that of the government. It's very nice to compare our priorities with a national budget plan, for by our election campaigns for elections under the presignment of the cards, we put forth very well - disassembled emphasis on government matters. It stressed that during the election season, health costs would increase by 40 billion a year at the end of the term. The balance of this budget is 41 billion. So we are fully dependent on the promises we made. Actually, there's quite a bit more social security than we said. It's sacred even. of the changes that took place in the council last fall, with increased emphasis on a special increase in the lowest improvement and current revision of the micro-energy pension process. I think in this context it is very important to look into it if we discuss the financial agenda in a broad context. This is an increase in the annual budget of over 80 billion over the duration of the programme. When it comes to criticism that there is not enough work to be done, you look for the plan to be based on the strongness of the economy now. This helps us to do much, for we can set priorities for the health and well - being of a very handsome person on the basis of the powerful income fund now available to the State Fund. While we may need to be alert to various warning signs in the economy, we hope that this will continue with us. But it is crucial that the government will support the economy in the country, for a change. This is now one of the criticisms of the maintenance phase is too much, that we are overcrowded. At that time, you look to the goal of spending about 1.5% of the budget as a proportion of land production next year. It is of utmost importance, and probably a considerable proportion of the fact that the Belourbank is returning to growth, that there is still considerable prices and expectations that we can continue to enjoy so much of the economic conditions. It has been so over the years that the government of government has been completely out of harmony with economic issues at any given time. I think it is the largest and most important factor in changing the Parliament's work ethic in developing financial policy and financial programmes to bring together the economy and the government of the state of the budget because it is one of the most influential factors in the economy, with the exception of the ever-growing decision of the United States Bank and other than pay decisions at the labour market. I'm glad we got a better grip on the business around the government budget. I believe the discussion was very thorough and careful. It is important that it is, although I sometimes miss it no more on the basis of a financial plan, i.e. in the regions itself. We're putting together a frame of the topic fields ourselves. As a result, budgeting for individual projects within the topic field is not yet being determined. There is still a subject in the discussion on budgets at a time. Since it is important to make this distinction, we do not lose out in a discussion about the smallest aspect of government billing at the same time as the conventions of this framework, deciding the terms of government spending at any given time. I am impressed that we keep our priorities clear. This is shown in the majority of the legal committees after the peak increases have been broken down. It is in exactly the categories mentioned here regarding health matters and other health matters. While environmental matters are very prominent in our priorities, it is rightly noted that education can be offered more fully. It has to be remembered, though, that this is a fundamental change in high school with the same Kingdom rate but with a year's shorter study period. It must also include a reduction in education years apart from the number of students. This must mean that each student will make a major contribution. When we look at priorities in these classes, it can hardly be viewed as cutting down to high school when students are shrinking, when years behind the study are reduced, but expenses continue to increase the absolute value of the same. So I cannot accept the criticism that this is a road to basic education in society. The same is true when we look to the university. There's an amazing increase in expenses. At the same time, the number of students is shrinking after the great oppressor who went through college after a collapse. Then we are getting closer to a more balanced state of life within the university, which means again and again that each student's expenses will greatly increase. In the community discussion, there is a perfect agreement on priorities in the sense of well - being. Under these circumstances, the priorities of the health - care system will be taken in a very handsome way. It is of utmost importance that we restore our health system after a large recession in donations during very difficult times here in 2009,2013. We see that we are returning to the same level of health costs that we were before a collapse. This can be seen when we compare it with solid prices, taking into account the almost 2% of growths needed for medical donations to support the aging and biological development of the nation. At the same time, funding is provided for new hospitals. I think that the vision presented in a financial program for health care is quite interesting. At any rate, this is the first time I receive a clear answer to the criticism that has been made in our medical system for so long, which is that it lacks perspective, it lacks total policy. It's good to refer to a multiple-scale McKinsey report that says, "The overall health system is not being watched. Some of its features are being watched, so - called siloth thinking, and we do not watch the interaction of the individual components of the medical system. This interaction and emphasis is very clearly seen in the financial program, focusing on promoting health care, promoting the role of the health - care system that has brought significant costs to the Land Hospital because of its inability to meet its demand. It is well - known that the Hospital Emergency Hospital will conduct a number of patients every day who are to attend health care services, but for some reason they seek into this stage, one of the most expensive elements in our health - care system. At the same time, we also place substantial funds in the building of aging services to help reduce other aspects of the Land Hospital, which has been very burdensome, the inability to graduate patients, where the hospital has no place to send people who cannot return home. That's extremely important. Of course, the huge increase in cost to the health - care system will bring great relief to the land hospital and thus increase its capacity to carry out its important tasks, in addition to the growth in the hospital itself. In this context, the importance of new hospitals, the economy that the building will involve in the health - care system, for the hospital itself, is also often forgotten at higher efficiency and lower costs. All of this reflects the high attention given to the health issues of the budget. When it comes to social security and welfare in general, the interest of the elderly is highly emphasised. This is where minimum improvements are being made. This will emphasize the promotion of sectoral flexibility, the promotion of the income of the elderly, and the better use of the elderly's services, if that is what they choose. It is well seen in numbers recently published by the Ministry of Health for the Surgeon Development of the Elderly that there has been a great change and a continuation in the coming years when it comes to buying the power of the most money in the elderly, where we watch a quarter rise in the first, second and third income of the elderly between 2016 and 2017. Will be a continuation of this development in the next year, where the lowest amount of money will be added further. That's extremely important. At the same time, it is important to increase flexibility in the work process, increase the ability of people to work longer, choose it, and enjoy the fruitage of the effort in the form of voluntary income, where appropriate. Second, a great deal of emphasis is given on the matters of disability. I think it's one of the most important projects on the welfare system in the next few years. How can we turn our disability pension system from the microenergy assessment of what is being used today, to the future work-evaluable? That we rely on people's abilities, not on their inability, that we provide resources for them to be responsibly employed and for jobs? There's a huge increase in funding for employment with support, employment management of disabled persons, and disability by the Labour Organization, but also a high priority for further linking the sciences of supporting our disability when it comes to the disability, mental health and other health care measures, when it comes to leaving the work-repeatures, as well as to the level of functioning to which should work, certainly provide increased ability to work, and the ability to work as well as to follow the necessary consultations needed for jobseekers, for which, of course, it is essential to connect. I hear and sense very well the concern of the Corporate Community in this matter. Of course, it is necessary and urgent when these changes are under attack that we have a very clear focus on disability and support for them in this regard. We also know that the trend that has been here in recent years is totally insurmountable to us as a community. The rising percentage of disability outside the labour market is a major concern, not just for the welfare system because of some of the costs involved, but not least because of the poor quality of life associated with this situation. I say and have said, as in the past: I feel that our well - being systems have failed this group when it comes to rehabilitation, when it comes to caring for the way back to social functioning. This activity does not always have to be active in the labour market. It may well be that there is a situation where people do not return to work, but it is of enormous importance that we guarantee that our social activity. And, under any circumstances, let us give them the way to a job market where it can be done. We will never live up to the human welfare of this group except by all means supporting them to self - preservation, to deal with them back into the labour market, and to support rehabilitation and sectoral management. I'm not going to have any more of my words, but I'm looking forward to the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u43	Madam President. I could start talking here about cutbacks against the increase and funding that had been promised to go into the health system, but I don't want to waste time on it. I think everybody's got that illusion. But where it's the highest. A minister is so interested in the health system I would like to ask, in view of articles in the news magazine yesterday that much more of the voters We built would like to have a public health system, not the personal driving: how do voters describe the restoration to the Supreme Court. Ministers sit in the government with a group that has spent many years in the shelter of night working at the privatizing of the health - care system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. We're fine on this government team. I think that when we examine our health system today, it's very varied. That's right, there's a vast majority of the people who want public health. There is nothing else about the policy of this government than that all the principal health systems, especially the Landsspike itself, remain in public business. [[Up front.]] The fact is, however, that we also have a wide variety of health - care arrangements. We have independent doctors as an important support that I don't think should be underestimated. We have our aging services more and less driven by self - interest institutions. Of course, there is much variety in the way our health systems are run and operated. It is not a product of one government. It's a system that has been shaped through the years and decades and has, I think, created an excellent harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u45	Madam President. Everything else. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the labour market, as it shows in financial programmes that the labour market's main challenges are increased in Iceland due to job-related diseases such as motor and musculoskeletal disorders and increased mental illness. People are leaving the labour market and falling under the micropower system. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he was not looking to see the possibility of reducing stress on people. I don't think this applies just to the workforce, the community has become extremely stressful and stressful. Why not think only about cutting people's hours of work out of the box so that people do not have to work as hard with increased self - efficiency in the community? All studies show that production does not decrease the time for work, if anything, it will increase. Why is it not a matter of looking at this program to shorten a person's hours of work so as to reduce stress that people have more time to care for their families and cultivate themselves than they always do for the job market? [[The president calls.]] I just see in the budget that the workforce is supposed to take care of all of this. They're not putting any money in the analysis of the problem, studying this, thinking outside the box, and looking at other possibilities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u46	Madam President. I appreciate even more interesting answers, but I'm afraid a minute is too short. This is an enormously important subject. This is not just the workforce's objective, and we are laying down funds to better determine the consequences of the disability, the causes of this rising disability rate. That's right, musculoskeletal and psychiatric disorders are most prominent. There is also increasing disability among young people who are deeply concerned. If we examine how the disability load is divided between the pension fund and the State, we will see that much of the disability is among those who have little or no history in the workplace. Of course, it's an independent diagnostic. But the other is also very important how we reduce disability because of work accidents, insecurity at work, too much effort, and how we help people to re-enact themselves from broken and difficult jobs. You could continue to count that. This is what we contribute to, not only to map these routes into the disability but also to the resources needed to resist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u47	Madam President. It's honorable for the highest. Minister to participate in the discussion, allowed others to imitate him. I had hoped for the highest. A minister would then back up things in his language, such as reducing the period of unemployment or gradually reducing housing support. I'd like to get to that as high as possible. A minister mentioned in his talk that it was inexpensive to criticize that there are no better ways to do so. I ask an alternative, wasn't it cheap to promise and promise an election, but if it turns out it doesn't seem that you have the will to earn anything after the election, as directed by Reunion, the Prancer right party? The state has lost its way, reduced its weight, 50 to 170 billion dollars. in steady income stocks in recent years. This schedule is not based on getting back one cent of it. It is based on the fact that economic growth should create space in order to increase the number of anonymous funds. But throughout the entire period, the share of GDP is falling. [[The president calls.]] Is it not possible to properly cut down on the welfare system to set up a schedule that allows for a decrease and decrease in the share of the consumption throughout the schedule? [[The president calls.]] It is a practical guide to what is involved in such a lawsuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u48	A respectable president. I had already reasoned on the unemployment benefits of the previous conference's discussion of a financial strategy and emphasized that we watch our primary goal of improving activities also during the period of unemployment, not necessarily marrying the way it is chosen to shorten the period of improvement. We will no doubt have discussions with the labour market members in this regard. I studied in my talk our campaign account. They fully pass this government budget. We were never proclaiming such dramatic tax increases. We just said we weren't going to go on tax returns, we didn't plan on raising taxes after these elections. There is therefore a limit to how much government spending can be raised. In the nature of the object, the cost of land production tends to decrease during time because of the high and vigorous growth that exists, but it is rising very elegant when the economy meets again. [[The president calls.]] It is called the automatic fluctuation of the state's budget and has, in fact, been crippling here that it has not been sufficiently handled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u49	Madam President. That was fun. See, there's the right man up to the highest. Minister. Right, unless this government doesn't intend to allow automatic swing equations to work in both directions, they're only supposed to work in one direction. They should only be used to take the share ratios down during economic growth, but if a break in the backslash, the ceilings that ban the ratios to soften the impact of society. This is one of the greatest rights ever to be served. I don't think the two of Chicago University kings could have done better. It's so cruel. This is a political declaration that the welfare community in Iceland is to be brought down. That's it. I agree with the highest. A minister on the importance of looking overall at the health system and fine that the minister is interested in it. Perhaps he should have taken it upon himself and not on the foreigner. There's a reason for what's at the highest. A minister said that this program should promote health care and increase nursing care? [[The president calls.]] They are to build a new room between 260 and 2022. [[The president calls.]] There's half the expected need. How can the highest. Ministers stand here and say that it should be under attack, including some circumstances. So, solve the flow problem of the Land Hospital? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u50	Madam President. I can only say that this is becoming an interesting discussion. That's where the right man stood in my mouth, said why. Senator. I readily admitted to being on the right side of the campaign. I have always held responsible government policy as soon as a powerful welfare system. When it comes to this balance of terms, it is very important to bear in mind that the financial policy established by this government is a global financial policy of charity, a great rise in the economy. It makes a complete eye for me that if here were to hit the background, it would need to revise that government policy. It's not a financial policy to cohesion in the economy. This would require significant adjustments in priorities and in the outer squares that would be set for that course. It is designed to support economic management in times of high economic development and to contribute to the growth reduction and competitive environment in other respects in order to ensure that the burdens of economic management are not limited to the Federal Bank, which we know has never given particularly good experience. I completely refuse that there is some surgery in the welfare system that will strike here in the background. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, it would obviously require a review of government policy, if that were the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u51	Madam President. What an interesting discussion! I would have liked to have these conversations with the Ministers in the Hall of Congress much more, and that they would also challenge us members of Congress. I'd like to discuss only a state financial plan... with the Minister's lawsuit party. I believe there are a lot of things that are highly underestimated and underdeveloped in there, whether it is the child pension, the vacation market, or the NPA. I'm really worried that we can't put our arms around it the way it's put up here. On page 18. 327 in the plan says it's time for a full reexamination of the children's pensions. I'm worried that it won't work. It is not suggested to extend the birthworm; it is not suggested to set minimum pay for minimum salaries or to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. It was shown in responses from the highest. Ministers that the maximum pay is most effective for mothers, much less than for fathers. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how to handle this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. In this regard, it is true, in fact, that there is a huge difference between fathers and mothers who have the maximum pay and, of course, show the problem of the work market in the sex - pay market and the gross status of the sexes into the labour market. To me, it has always been the most important part of the maternity of a labor market, apart from the time of the child's private right to be with his parents in the first few months of life. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that fathers take advantage of birthworm too, as do mothers, or both parents in that context, regardless of income. It is the best equality we have to make sure that children, the very same thing in young people's lives, are not some sort of gender-defined difference in employment markets, as was certainly here for a time but have blessedly diminished. But he's still there. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we have stressed that these peaks are raised in order to ensure that fathers, who are still much more rich, as is clearly seen in this reply, are not making the same use of their own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u53	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. However, I feel that it is important that we think about what we can do to cope with it. In a report made by the chairman of the minister in his day, the first 300 measures were proposed. The crowns would be intact. I'd like to ask you about the minister's attitude on whether he thinks it's wise to go that way. As the answer shows, there is still an unexplained difference in pay between the sexes and women in general get less pay and thus lower incomes from this fund. So I think it's important that we find a way to earn them, even when they're alone, which is never less than a minimum wage. I would also like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on disability and the matters of disability. Is it correct for me to understand that the straggler insurance policy will remain around the lowest wage but continue to be cut off for a dollar? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If Ministers think it is -- we can call to meet what was said here before elections, i.e. to strengthen and support the interests of older people and disability. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. Just so you can finish your baby's oro. I've definitely not opposed it, and we're actually considering ways of ensuring that the lowest wage for the current system is in terms of some kind of floor. Besides, I haven't excluded the prolongation of maternity school, I've just said that it's a priority to rebuild the arrangement to a previous function in order to ensure its equal role in the labour market. Not taking birthlofs is dependent on income or sex. Of course, in terms of disability and the crowning of a dollar for a decrease, reevaluation of the pension arrangements in harmony with what was done about pensions is a top priority. It is quite clear, however, that the next year's financial budget is limited by a large rise in the minimum amount of money and its cost. That is why it is assumed in a national budget that a new system will begin on January 1, 2019, but we have already started a job in the shape of that system and, of course, we will import it as fast as we can. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u55	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for coming here and having a conversation with us. I agree with the highest. A minister of the importance of looking at people's strengths and abilities instead of their weaknesses. I also agree that job security needs to be improved and support for individuals within the energy system is strengthened. During the last term, such actions were discussed. It was then estimated that in order for these changes to be successful, it would take 5 billion dollars, but it seems to have an estimated 2.7 billion. I'd like to ask the highest. Social and equal minister what would explain this difference. Has there been a detailed review of the difference between the calculations of the previous government and the 2.7 billion in the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u56	Mr. President. All I need to do is look at the basis for the calculations of the previous government better so I can answer that accurately. The budget has two large-scale costs, we can say; on the one hand, an increase in the minimum financial value from 280 you. K. of 300. K. for years to come, however, this fundamental system change expected. There are no fundamental changes identified in the calculations of the new system to be accepted. Such a system is expected to be fully comparable to the pension, i.e. that the improvement groups will be united to one of the core improvements and the impairments will be comparable to those of pensional patients, i.e. 45% decline regardless of income. In this context, however, we especially need to look at employment in the same way that we are in the process of delinquency patients, making sure that these systems are built - in for employment and that people are benefiting from them. There have been no physical changes on this basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Next time, I'd like to ask a little questions about my maternity issues, and actually there was a problem. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir slightly into it earlier. Government budget states that there is a good increase in maternity payments. I'm glad they're trying to appeal to fathers to enjoy the activities of their children. V.E.G. Social Affairs said he was looking at it with the floor and the length. I wanted to ask him about other issues related to the birthworm and related to a matter that we still have. In order to get birth care, the panel members of the Convention proposed that they meet the parents who need to be given birth service away from home and have to start a maternity vacation much earlier. It's the highest. Social Ministers to examine their actions in order to allow for extension of maternity vacations at the time they have to wait for a child away from home?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This has been examined very loosely. It is important to consider how we can more fully support this group. Clearly, there is a question of the perplexing reasons why this is so. A senator mentions, i.e. In this case, if birth services are not available, a mother, in this case, needs to be kept away from a job market earlier. It is perfectly normal to look to that fact when it comes to making a decision on the part of an unborn child. There would have to be some kind of birthworm authority to face a special situation. This is an opinion, but it should be acknowledged that the priorities for financial management are not far off, but that is to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u59	Mr. President. I'm going to review what I didn't get into my first speech, because as most people have noted, the time we have to discuss it is extremely short and realize that it has not worked. I'd like to start with the local government a little bit. It is very important to look at the stage where the settlements are held in the foreground. We talk about the nature of the case, according to a lot of terms about Land Hospitals, college hospitals, school issues, etc., but not much of the community in the big context. It has been observed by the European Union of Iceland that they believe that there is a vision problem for the group, how to enforce a national budget. We left greens have been highly critical of the budget set up in the national parish programmes designed to increase the share of the local people in decision-making and community measures. Sadly, a considerable amount of money seems to be needed to achieve it as planned. I would discuss only the agriculture, the fishing road, and other things, and I would like to do so before going into the general discussion. This large article, agriculture, has been very little discussed and given very little attention. There are no analyses of the effects of various measures and conditions that are evident to have an impact on agriculture and its status over the coming years in a financial programme. We can mention changes in legislation that will greatly increase the import of raw meat. It is a complete reversal of warnings and advice from health professionals in the field of public health and disease control. The increased incidence of food-borne diseases and drug-resistant microorganisms may be associated with major complications in Icelandic society. So you have to say that the budget for the Food Agency is disturbing, but it is reasonable to assume that the Agency will be prepared to perform its role during the period. The bad status of sheep farmers is clearly obvious. Their situation is in turmoil, especially in the most scattered parts of the country. Clearly, without the support of the government, they will not survive. The problem between sheep and sheep cannot be solved on the basis of the market. We know that the State's authority needs to be taken into account by well - prepared and collective measures, taking into account both farmers and consumers. This has to happen fast and definitely. Many farmers are failing because of difficult business situations. The same can be said of fishing and fishing. There is no such thing as the order of resource bills in fishing or fish farms. Despite reports from the Food Organization that there is a great need to support the Agency's activities, research and monitoring seem very important to all the food products in the country, and it is actually monitoring around 6,000 countries. He's making too little money to carry out his assignments. There have been significant changes in the operations of Fishing Room, including Because of the move to Akureyri, and the pressures have been considerable. They also need to be addressed because of the plans for increasing fish farming. By all means, to us here within the house, i.e. General Parliament and observation centres. The discussion hasn't given much weight. We have the U.S. National Reconnaissance and U.S. Marshal's Office. It is clear that these individuals have not been able to fulfill their intended tasks and have not been expected in a financial programme, at least it has little transparency that one cannot see it. An agent is also an agent. ... toprovide so-called OPCAT under the synonym of validation of optional accounting against the United Nations Convention on torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. It cannot be seen that this is the intended location, either with an agent or with the State Department. The same can be said when it comes to foreign affairs. How sad that we should not spend more money on development than this indicates! Unfortunately, in the last government of 2015, this was cut off when we should have decided to pay about that. what the United Nations has set up, i.e. 0.7% of the gross national income. Despite the tremendous need for international humanitarian and evolutionary support and over 65 million refugees, we have not cared for and contributed as a rich nation. The same is true of all this surveillance program, for it has often been observed in the case of independents that they do not approve of being under supervision. The consumer's office is well-funded and more people who are expected to be involved. At the same time as the Treaty states that increasing and strengthening the protection of consumers will be provided by institutions that are not to be cared for for for for. This was what I was going to report in my committee party. Now, I just want to share my songs with a cross and talk about unique topics that have been held at the top of the discussion and that are found in both the members of the section and all the smaller parts. That's even. The medical services we were discussing. I think that in view of what we have information about and articles published in the News magazine that Sveinn Arnarsson put together on the social health system, there's a lot more to think about. We should not have to discuss the issues of a private hospital when this is the case. This shows not just the study that is under the heading of the article but how many other countries have been successful. It says that health systems can be divided into three things: social systems such as those normally used in the North countries, mixed or so - called family insurance systems known in many Western Europe and then a central impact system. So says the President's permission: The best approach to services is to social health and relative costs to the lowest of the three. Research has also shown that people healthy people are the best people in nations where social health systems are involved. " We are moving away from social health systems. " This is in the opinion of a professor of public health, Rúnar Vilhjálmsson. So here's what it says: But when are we in a position not to live in social health care? Rúnar says that once individuals are refusing health care, red light will flash in their dashboard. ▪ When a large proportion of patients are turning down the necessary service because of cost, we are getting out of this box. That's exactly what we've been talking about for a very long time. A lot of people refuse health care. For what? Because it costs too much. This was approved during the last season of the pay program. We always thought we were talking about 50 pulses. K. Since then, it has been said to go up to 70 o'clock. K. Then the drugs are countless. It's way too high and it's not exactly what they suggested. This is what we need to react. I would like to continue to quote the article that mentions that instead of using the term "privateization " as to the changes that have taken place in Icelandic health care, this is a way of speaking about increasing private business or supporting a wide variety of management plans. These are, with the permission of the President, an example of concepts for a home bridge that has little value in the theoretical discussion. It refers to personalization. I mention this because I remember the last health minister speaking very strongly about our not using terms correctly. There's a lot under there. As I came in earlier, I find it shocking that in many areas of health care, we cut down our service. They're laying down ambulances, e.g. in my hometown. It's not good to negotiate with those who drive the ambulances. It's a basic service we have a right and it should be there. It's an increase in tourism. It's important that the service is in place, that the law is in order. She's not okay. The budget needs to be cut down now. When government officials talk about how they can butt between lawsuits this fall, I want to know where they think they can be brought down. A respectable president. I'm also going to consider that when we talk about people's positions and they can't go to health care, I feel that we are talking too little about who gets involved that money is not properly distributed. It's our children. Too many children as we know and reports are available in poverty. If we're going to invest in wood, we're talking about human resources, health, well - being, and education, and especially about children. We're supposed to invest in them everywhere. Ever since they were born, until they graduated from school, to buy homes, and to have a home. They need this investment from the start, support, and help to develop and have a good life. Sadly, there is a cutting of a child's service. This appeared during the last terms, and it continues right now. Fewer or fewer parents get e.g. child damages, this is becoming a kind of charity. Mental - health issues have been very busy, especially with young children and young people at school. Sadly, the 1.8 billion for increase in family affairs do not come about until the end of 2022. It's one of those things that's kind of an illusion. We're talking about a five - year budget, but it's made up as much as next year. It also speaks of strengthening the support of youth service, but much of it is seen, and it is not said that all children should be able to share in youthful service or sports. There's more people looking at what's done. That's good, but not to be forgotten about the others. I agree with what's going on in the Committee's list of parts, and I hope we'll see where that's going. It's like the third sector, we need to think that these issues are in place. A respectable president. Time continues as usual. I strongly emphasize that we watch that the United Nations Children's Covenant is guided so that we can reduce the inequities of children in the whole world. That's what we do. By increasing the proportion of GDP in development cooperation, we are doing this by strengthening a system under a state-of-the-art financial program ranging from maternity, child development, a bridge between nurserys and daycare and school, etc. I think we have to face up to rising income in order to meet the ups and downs that we need. We cannot simply add expenses, that would be irresponsible; we need to earn money in order to live up to them. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the government is not interested in that. That is why I feel that it is very important for us to hear from the executives where they think we have a table for a table. Their presentation has repeatedly shown in the Committee's opinion that the box should not be enlarged but should move between frames and frames to the budget in the fall. All reviews, perhaps two or three, say we need more money. All right, well, it's often the nature of institutions and those who do services, but if we just look at what we can call an emergency basic service, I ask: Is the government content with the lack of enough funding and the need to reduce the number of police officers? Is that okay? Are we happy that in the years ahead, we will not be building, for example? A ward at the Hospital in Akureyri? Do we accept the fact that we are not going to let more families enjoy the benefits of child rearing? To what can representatives of the greater part accept? [[The president calls.]] How's high school? Where will they finance what they suggest the money stays inside the high school system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss a few adjustments. A candidate in my 1st section to a budget committee where it contributes to the increase of the state's income through taxes and possessions of 334 billion and various expenditures, creating a new topic range of 35 different expenses. It's no less than just a new topic field. These are substantial increases as close as possible. I began to count in an excel document and add it up. In what the government is developing in this financial program, there are significant increases, percentages between years, and these are 4◯7% between the individual years. It'll make you feel better. A senator at quite a bit. We'll see these numbers coming up. It will be a total of between 11 and 12.5% between the years. There is always an increase in this range, 11, 12, 12.5% over this period. I just want to ask you: We got here from another body member, okay? paritaprevir With a new Oddný Harðardóttir, an introduction to her comments yesterday, she explained how to get into the tax business and get the money out. In this process of change. There is no mention of how to reach these incomes, taxes, and fees to the State. Could a better explanation be given? And perhaps, I think it's about to reach a whole new level in Icelandic history from year to year, the tax returns laid on the side of pay, whether or not. A senator will feel that this is part of a financial program when discussing disciplined economic management and such factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u61	Mr. President. It might have been better if the senator had been in the hall or heard what I said, for I already answered that question. This shows you where the greater part is, that you should try to counteract the fact that you are offering additional income or expenses. There is no new word. Before the election, we put on the left green a national budget. We told of it as if it were always necessary to make a living to meet the expenses available. But we are also accountable, and we make room for it, so that it can be served. Not everything is put on expenses. To a small extent, we have no basis. Like what? A senator knows that the financial program is lacking so that we can resolve this in a practical way. But we do know and have ideas about it, left green, where we can make more money. For example, we can earn more money from the richest people in the country. We can take a fiscal tax, we can take an increase in capital tax, we can take a carbon tax, we can take a sugar tax. Money can be picked up in many places, huh? A senator, to face that. And I believe the country wants to get more cohesive, not cut off on the shared consumption. I'm also asking why. Returning to the body: Does he feel it okay to reduce the consumption of the Memorial in this five - year period? In case of a moment. A senator means anything by saying that the school case is allowed to keep its uninvolved contribution, whether to a university or that the cutout doesn't go through in high school, where will he take it? This has not been shown in the majority of proposals. A senator and a lot of the money on a budget board. When we're being brought up by some percentage of our questions, this is realistic, and if we don't do it at a good time, when on earth are we supposed to do this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u62	Mr. President. I appreciate that. You see, it's this thing with the transparency that has been talked about. I'm sure we've been here listening to the talk I've achieved for about 20 to 30 hours and many other hours. Many individuals have talked about transparency and such factors. Would it not, then, have been in the spirit of receiving with the light where people are going to get those huge wages? It is some 334 million that are proposed in this process by increasing taxpaying to the State. This is a million per person in the country, a family of four, four million. More than a million a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u63	Where does this money come from to...?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u64	There are many areas of life that can be considered. There's economic growth in the country. But what I've been drawing attention to is the most important thing: Is this the wrong kind of government? You see, it's about getting through that period. [[The president calls.]] It is easy to let things go by presenting such crazy ideas, as some have said in a talk chair. It's a crazy idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u65	Mr. President. No, it's not a crazy idea. It's a crazy idea to go to taxes at this time. That, in fact, is what it says. The Secret Bank's money policy committee. This is a crazy idea, as was done during the last term and should continue now, to lower taxes. That doesn't make sense. Senator. Not at all. Taking income against expenses is fine. But when you don't want to take money because you can't get money from those who have it to finance what was promised before elections because it's okay to betray a promise that's being made here, clearly, it's being made, and it's in buildings that were decided to go in amongst... [[Where will you take money to finance your efforts?]] [[What promise?]] [[What promise?]] [[What promise?]] A lot of promises, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, you could come up against me, but you chose not to. [[NFL: What promise?]] I've been. There are a lot of promises here that are not being fulfilled, and they have references, narratives that come from more and less all sources say. You're not doing what you said. That's not what you're doing in transportation. [[The president calls.]] That's not what you're doing on health care. This five-year plan doesn't show that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u66	The president asks the senators to remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u67	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech and refreshing answer, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter arrived. That's what gives us a life in our discussion. Hv. A senator did much to cover the settlements. They may not have been given much discussion here on the government budget. A high level of criticism has naturally been observed on health and health issues and education issues. We've done a lot of good with them here, even if it's okay if I come in on them later. I'd like to ask you what. A senator may not have to work on a collective policy in regional matters. It would be necessary to take care of such measures as the need to use them, e.g. The student loan system in connection with impulse - related activities in an effort to obtain specialised jobs in the country. We can mention nurses, doctors, or other experts who lack enough in the country. Well, maybe. A senator envisioned that this was part of a focalal course. would take action such as paying taxes on travel to and from work to strengthen the economy and the settlements of the country? Is that in harmony with what you are doing? In his earlier speech, a senator called for a lack of information? In recent years we have seen the trend where companies and many institutions have, in many cases, transferred their activities from the region to the capital area. Counts 'em out. A senator might even have a lower insurance fee for a company in the country to try to reverse or keep them in touch with? They started working on it during the last term, but we have not yet been allowed to see the results on that subject. I just wanted to put it together. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly what this is about. They have, in my opinion, been given far too little publicity during this discussion. Of course, you can see that other big cases take up the space. But it's one of the biggest cases, to secure the entire country. How do we do that? I have said of the student loan system that there are some places where students are known that it is new to attract people to work. At least I think we should look at it. So wonder if it can matter. This needs to be checked by those who are especially in the jobs that are missing in the country. Then we need to define what the basic services of land should be and then squeeze into smaller areas. That, in my opinion, is absolutely necessary and should have been long since. We define things as baseline in each society, i.e. basic needs or services. I think that's something that needs to happen. The study system is one of the things that could support these ideas. Tax harvesters to and from homes in more scattered areas? Yes, I think it might be considered. There have now been a conquistador proposal made on the part of the council. A senator, or at least a request for the material I think is worth examining. I agree that companies are moving from the country - but many are playing in there. I'm not sure the insurance bill should vary according to the position of an enterprise, but there are many other factors to consider in that subject. In this context, we might consider some of the types of transport costs and other costs for inhabitants of the scattered regions, energy costs, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers are very clear. I agree with her that it is important to examine these measures. Also came the second. A senator accesss the currently significant retail system. We agreed on a last summer's committee opinion that the payoff button would be up to a maximum of 50 points. K. But 33 of you. K. for children, the elderly, and the poor, but now the roof is higher than we agreed. A committee study of 2nd memory of the health committee I wrote shows the importance of further entering the payment system and improving, e.g. The dentist, psychological services, travel costs, and the two systems involved in medicine and health care. Takes it. A senator would not be subject to the importance of this? In a budget plan, however, it does not take place, for there is so much ambiguity when it comes to this series of languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u70	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Yes, we need to aim for subsidizing and putting more on it. We need to place psychological services under it. We talk about mental health problems that seem to be all over the world, but we need to get more than merely mental - health professionals into this system. I think it's important to drag more people into the system and then those who need a lot of medication to come in there. We need to try to reduce their costs. It's hard to read, but we know that this group has been in trouble. I'm trying to read this, and after the information that has been presented by the senators on the subject, it doesn't seem enough to assume that the payment process will still be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a second time, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the extensive discussion of financial planning. It has been shown that we show complete irresponsibility by making adjustments and being the prophets of delirium. That's what I want to do. I want to protest. Hv. A senator mentioned these ideas as crazy. It is not crazy what is happening when we make adjustments in order to improve the interests of those in the community, children, the elderly, the desperate, so to speak. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator into what is involved in the income of a committee list 1. I sensed it as in the text that the increase in cost of transport taxation, from 11% to 24%, is the left green being any subject of thought, including In view of the need for a much better diagnosis and a lack of money on these and some more. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council how it feels that the implementation of these measures, these plans, will affect the tourism, especially the country's environment, and what this will do so as to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You see, if I was in the government office, I'd have put in a different financial programme, that's perfectly clear. And then I'd also have better access to some basic data that I don't have today. Therefore, even if you have some ideas about what you would like to do, you are not responsible for putting it out of your mind, completely broken. Of course, you have to have all the information on the table. The valuable tax in travel services is as mentioned in the first two years too late in view of the situation today, all of this building up and growing stronger, normal, since economic management does not speak to a financial committee and does not take into account the guidelines given to sustain stability. Therefore, we need to have an analysis of how this affects the areas. It has been observed that the small companies in the scattered regions feel unable to live up to an increasing price that would result in an increase in value tax in tourism and that they are still building up. It is still widely available, so despite its increasing number of tourists, it has increased much slower than has occurred in the capital area. We can only see in the magazines today what effect one decision will have on other rural groups in the context of the failure of tourists to reach places. Of course, they're gonna need this kind of staging. I had been discussing this with the minister of finance in general, and he said that it was very difficult to perform such a field - analysis compared to a part of the country. [[The president calls.]] But we who live in the scattered regions know that this will have tremendous impact there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to ask you about geographic matters, too. We're both from the country's settlements. See what? A senator, any sign of an application in a financial program? Then, of course, I look first at what is next to me, that is, health care that has ended in the past few years, whether in the case of daily health care or in the clinic, and then in some other work-related matters, i.e. In agriculture and fishing roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u74	Mr. President. I think, in fact, that there's a strategy that we have before us that we lack some transparency, as the European Union says, they're not fully developed. Then there is one thing to put down and another to see that capitalism follows. I guess that's what we'll come to see in the fall. I've said the application plans for parts of the country to ensure the presence of the local people that, unfortunately, they were now only excommunication at the beginning of their last terms. After a lot of time and fuss, they put the money back, way too small and I'm afraid there's too little still. The church? No. I can't see it, with no business, no health issues. Of course, some planning is being proposed, which is really good, because it is a real need, but that alone is not enough. It has been observed that there is little left for public health issues. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're supposed to look at, not just talk about percent and money. Health and life are not percentages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u75	President. During my speech on Wednesday, I reviewed the review of a third - part financial committee and failed to complete my review. There I spoke of hospital service and health care over head, disability, medicine, medicine, medical supplies, and the subjects of the elderly and other matters, as well as work markets and unemployment. The government's financial programme estimates that unemployment rates will be reduced from 30 months to 24 months. This includes a further decrease in the rights of unemployment reformers who have already had to suffer in the past 36 months to 30 months. They're now planning a further decline in these rights. Is this done on the basis of a good job situation in society and the need for so long a unemployment period? It is important to be careful that those who still have the right to accept 30 months of unemployment maintain that right. It is already being treated by the Supreme Court on this subject from the time the unemployment period was reduced from 36 months to 30 months in which the rights were taken back. We have to make sure it doesn't happen again. Then there is concern that the work period should be shortened at the same time when radical changes in disability evaluation are made. Unemployment is a vital safety net for those who have difficulty finding a suitable job. There is some danger that the cost of these individuals will move to the countryside when unemployment rates end. On page 18. The three main challenges to the labour market are discussed in the 337 program, which shows that the main cause of energy in Iceland is a type of work - related disease, a bit devastating. These include motor and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as stress-induced psychiatric disorders. This huge problem is to place everything in the hands of the workforce, and there is no mention of the government's responsibilities or financial contributions to projects that would reduce stress. It could be, e.g. progressive by reducing the number of working hours and increasing the availability of psychiatric services. But it is clear that there is something amazing in our community if stress and stress cause people to fall out of a labor market into disability. That is something we obviously need to face up to and examine solutions. In view of the high cost of uncivilizing such problems, all the funding for prevention is lacking. Much has been discussed in the community as to the emergency in a housing market. There is a great lack of housing, especially on the southwest corner, which has brought great financial gains on housing and makes it more difficult for people who do not have housing to invest in their first residence. It is noteworthy, then, that the plan is expected to make a major reduction in donations for this group of paintings. In order to improve the quality of the budget, it is necessary to keep up with the budget of interest up to 2022, allowing less money to be made to pay for housing. It is then assumed that building scholarships will up to 1,800 new general apartments from 20188/2021. It will be obvious that such donations will not be close to responding to the need for an apartment building, but the analysts have felt that the gathering need is now up to 3,500 apartments, and they have not been taken into account the population growth that will take place until 2021. The camp loan fund has worked on the development of a host plan with rural communities. Such cooperation may result in increased housing opportunities, but it is clear that housing needs more than this is expected to be needed. It is also interesting that nothing should ever happen to visit the rented market, which I find very serious. The evidence is that most people in a rented market want to buy themselves. But you ask yourself, " Is it not normal in the present situation, where rent markets are so difficult for people to buy? ' How would it be if the tenet was like it is in many other parts of the North, where people can rent an apartment and live there all the time at an affordable price? Would there be just as many who would rather buy homes? I don't think that's a good reason not to look at rent action. In terms of public health and welfare management, there is an estimate of a 4% increase in the pay of the case. Expenditures under 2017 increase from 8,303 billion. K. on budgets of 2017 to 8,658 billion. K. after 2022. Less than one third of that amount goes to human health, prevention, and monitoring. The Icelandic health system is a reactant, not a prevention drive, which means that the resources used for prevention are often spent in the treatment of patients who have serious health problems. With increased funds for prowess, much savings can be achieved, as well as improved quality of life for those otherwise affected by health problems and in many cases by disability. So it would be reasonable to increase expenses on prevention in order to improve the health of the country. In this regard it may be noted that in Article 3 less part of the budgetary policy adopted by the former government, the following was presented by the president's permission: The increase in disease caused by life - style, such as poor diet and lack of exercise, results in an enormous cost to the health system. It is, therefore, incomprehensible that not all efforts are made to curb evolution by all means, using preventive and early intervention to replace drugs where possible. It is difficult to identify the circumstances that have changed since this committee was signed by Senator Bjarts, which causes no more money to be spent for prevention. President. We are a nation of over 300 thousand people who are fortunate enough to live in a rich land, rich in natural resources, making us one of the richest and most developed people in the world. Contemplating the nation's economic well - being, economic growth has lasted for some time after much hardship. A financial program points out that we are entering one of the longest continuous economic growths in Iceland. Yet, it is worth pointing out that the success of tourism, as well as good mackerel fishing, has indeed rushed the nation's economic recovery after a spectacular financial collapse nearly a decade ago. In the abundance of our lives, we have the opportunity to invest in the people of our country by strengthening our welfare systems and working toward the goal of eliminating poverty, equal opportunities, strengthening human rights, and improving our well - being. One of the most powerful ways to cope with poverty is to make sure that everyone has adequate progress and that basic services, such as education and health care, are free of charge. All should realize that the authority of the public is an investment that will eventually come back to a number of times. Sadly, this emphasis is not found in a financial program. It is all the emphasis on continued maintenance and cutting down on community foundations. Little or no help will be provided to the worst of all, in the community and in poverty, to continue feeding. Here we find a course that is marked by a vastly shortsighted and lack of understanding about the real value of the land, of course the people of the land. The conclusion of section 3 is that this financial plan should be rejected on the above grounds. I would also like to state that there has been an enormous lack of information in the processing of the committee and the opinions of this financial programme. Pirats have called for further information so that we can better see how money is divided into lawsuits. It is my sincere hope that we can get this information so that we can better understand it, but especially just for the common people, so that the public can really see how this money is to be spent and how the government thinks about the future of the community and where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u76	A respectable president. We are still discussing a five - year government budget, which is without doubt the most important issue of this council. I am now coming to my second speech, where time did not work to finish the passage I had planned. Let's see how far I can go this time. I would like to speak in this second speech, including ... moreinvolved on the part of the member of the financial programme which falls under the topic range of 8. A major change in rural activities has occurred in the last two to three decades. A number of projects previously on the government have been moved to rural communities, and this trend is not yet completed. For example, there are basic schools and services to those who are disabled. This has increased the share of the government's business and economic partnerships. The increased share of rural society in public activities is reflected, including the U.S.A. in that their employees are now more than the government, and their income is about one third of the government's income. In view of their increasing scope, public attention is increasingly important, as is the case with new government laws. A government review concluded that the real status of a local partner needs to be reflected in financial planning and the ability to repay debt. At the General Assembly meeting with representatives of the National Review Board, it was made clear that their estimates are that the objective of the development is not at all working against the communities and that such a plan is, of course, completely gone. It's, for example. grossly peculiar, to say the least, that the budget does not have special coverage on housing matters. I can agree with the People's Accounting that the next five years' budget is a novice in which there is no respect for the real state of the countryside and that there are no realistic goals for recovery. The review of the European Union's 26th - April County Partner is consistent with this opinion of the State Accounting. that the relationship pointed out in its review of financial policy since February 17 that it is considered that the purpose of the successful financial policy being unrealistic and out of harmony with the adopted local financial programmes. The share-of-the-art share of the financial programme is different from the ones that come up in financial policy without identifying them in financial abnormalities. During 2017 and 2018, a financial plan is expected to be less effective in rural society than in financial policy, but better produced by 2020/022. As with other aspects of the financial programme, no consultation has been made with the community, including chapter 5 involving the financial community. Of course, I strongly criticize the lack of communication with the European Union and the preconceived conditions that are fundamental to the factors involved in the survival of the rural community. The relationship is critical of the lack of consultation with the shape of financial criteria for the survival and economy of rural society, and I reiterate to 1 1 1. There is a law on public financial matters that includes communication and consultation between government and rural society. Is a minister to ensure formal and regular cooperation with rural society in the shape of financial policy and financial programmes. Hopefully, these factors will be improved in the future. To be reasonable, all of us are really working this way for the first time and so perhaps for the first time. normal to a certain extent that the project is not perfect. Yet, this work is far from good enough, and it is hardly enough to meet the requirements of public finance laws regarding the act of the law. V.E.G. President. I'd also like to cut down a little bit on the financial board's reviews about the survival of rural society and the interaction of financial policies and financial plans there. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. by permission of president: The majority of rural society is dependent on moats in the economy. During economic development, income increases but falls together as the economy contracts. In this regard, it should be noted that uncertainty about the expected trends increases with time. As a result, there is a greater uncertainty about economic growth in the latter part of the period than in the first half. There is also wide uncertainty as to whether sufficient rest will be due to total survival in the latter part of the period to achieve the declared financial objectives. If the total survival of Part A is to be determined to meet baseline on sustainability and stability, it is necessary to determine the uncertainty of the economic forecasting proposed. If, for example, the economic forecasts that support the budget fail to be fulfilled. if economic growth failure is not expected and economic growth is reduced in the late part of the period, then rural society is unlikely to reach the expected share in the expected total A-part recovery. It would be necessary to perform other measures, should the purpose of the programme be followed. Both stability and firmness would be supported by the action taken in the event of a change. A review of the Union, SIS, also gives rise to the lack of focus on rural politics in the financial program. Among the reasons are the development of rural development, changes in national and rural activities, and increased consultation with policy-makers. However, there is no forward vision for the group and no explanation of the means to achieve a set goal. No future vision and means that goals are not clarified. What's that in the state budget for the next five years? Is this just to talk about policy and policy, but not work accordingly? I wonder. I still find it hard to believe that more of the budget committees have not produced adjustments in this financial program, since it is quite clear that this is not how we can handle the situation. That would be absolutely irresponsible. The plan also does not include the timing of major investments, but it only referred to government priorities without logical support. At a meeting of the General Assembly and the Council of Economic Affairs, it was found that there are no studies available on the potential for a variable product effect on national activities. It is not available in all parts of the country, as is the case, and for this, we must take into account the priorities of the implementation. In its review of April 26, the firms of industry state that it is important to hold back the government's growth but at the same time cannot be overlooked by the urgent needs of investments in the infrastructure. The organization points out that public investment levels are low, and the result is that the fabrics of corruption reduce the competitiveness of society. At a meeting with a representative of the Industrial Association came in, including up to now there was little work to be done on aquifers due to a low construction level on road construction and activation projects. In view of this, I have to say that vision in this field is absolutely lacking in financial planning. Are people really going to stay in their hands when the economy is up and up, like when the downturn is down? I say, "When is it time to act if not now?" Will we let everything go down? I hope not. Apparently, it is when the government's policy on transportation is examined. There, the government actually returns riches - yes, amazing, but true, it returns wealth. If we want a better and safer road, let's just make it a road to the road. What a course. For transport and general planning, such as A transport plan, a law enforcement plan, and, above all, the financial programmes of a community should all work together in harmony with one another. We are not yet in that place, but of course we should be heading there, i.e. Synchronize the periods, aims e.g. The key schedules at five years, taking into account the available estimates for financial programmes. Now it's somehow half attached, and when you point it out, some men even shrug. We have to work together to change these things if we're going to reach the goal of the law, i.e. Mismanagement, espionage, stability. - Because I'm looking at what I'm looking at. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, president of the budget board, I would like to commend the majority of the committee for what is expressed in his opinion of this factor, this consistent strategy, and perhaps a time limit, so we are really heading for a realistic goal, that it works together. It is the purpose of a law on public finances, that we are working within the framework to ensure stability and forethought, and to increase the discipline, as I said earlier. The more part gets the plus for that, and we agree that this is the way we need to try to keep up. Then we come to the teamwork that I'm very interested in. Despite being a small nation with tiny government, we know each other and all that, we are still trapped in our own box. Meetings and consultations must be increased. In my opinion, the current government has definitely not improved that aspect, despite its declared objective, i.e. if you have a range of comments from stakeholders. The red thread in the comments I have read is that it lacks consultation, not based on existing products, presentation is untransparent and aims, such as. target of rural society. The worst part, I know, is that we're going to be responsible, that the big cause of business is abject treasure. The environmental issues are one of these issues that I am deeply concerned about as they have all the most important issues in the next few decades. The importance of the party, however, is not reflected in a financial program. There are so many things I'm going to say I have to ask the highest. President to sign up for another speech right now, I see I can't get over half. But I would like to step in with my energy issues. They are also a very important case group that has to do with the construction of jobs as well as the equal management of countries all over the country. I am extremely concerned about this subject area, where it is difficult to see how the government intends to secure energy security across the country, including the U.S.A. to meet other programmes, as shown in the Constitution resolution of energy change, let alone project to speed up electricity compression, which should be completed 2034 with the current programmes. This project is very important, so that modern employment can be done on the whole country, since all larger devices are now based on electricity compression. There is also an interesting project to increase the share of thermal and heat sources to reduce the energy costs of cold areas and/or reduce the use of diesel generators. The media criticize this government's priorities because it does not show any willingness to settle the existing conditions and support the development of employment throughout the country. Hv. paritaprevir The negative Sævarsdóttir Saevardsdóttir's state of energy safety was well considered, and the economic consequences that power loss can bring on the discussion earlier than ever in the past regarding earlier activities of the council. The damage that power failure can cause on large parts of the country, which she named the area of the arms and down to the local community not long ago, appears to be highly underestimated and only a fraction of the damage taken into the calculations when men are doing it. This must be examined, and it sounds to me that the energy security is taking place even at a certain point during the coming council, and that's fine. Like I say, I have to jump over a good piece. I'd like to mention only the public health. More than 40% of all financial expenses go to health and health care. The nation is getting older, and it is clear that we need a good plan if we are to continue providing good health for all. Our system as it is today is characterized by overwork. We can save a lot of money in the health system by being guided by public health policies in all policies, both governments and rural groups. We have so much to look into the experiences of our neighbors, many of whom have already made a clear policy in these matters. We have countless skilled experts in this area, and people's general interest in health is growing. The work of public, specialists, and, above all, government interests is improved by people's health. This said that I have the tremendous disillusionment to see how little attention is put on public health according to an existing financial agenda, but there is little or no financial growth in the seminary. It describes a complete lack of ambition toward public health and the work being done there. An increasing focus on human health is, of course, a future savings, especially where people are getting older and knowing that fewer hands will be there to sustain the health system in the future. Of course, we should put an extra emphasis on human health, of course we should--but, no, this government isn't going to do it. Presumptuous vision is the identifying mark of the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator, an excellent speaker, and a critical man. I don't agree with all the points presented in the talk, and I don't surprise anyone. I just stopped for a second. At the time, a senator may not be doing so in all parts of the country. I think it's true, and we agree that there may be an opportunity to attack the infrastructure there. We know that we have not been in the business over the last few years and a decade. I'm wondering what. A senator had considered how this can be done. On the one hand, we're talking about the social infrastructure, such as the education system and the health system, where I now see only that a government fund has to lay down until most of it, and there are also economic structures. Green infrastructures include e.g. Transport, ports, etc. I'll figure it out by then. A senator says this will be a cooperation project between state, rural society and private members, e.g. Pension funds and other investors? In what way, then, should this be done? Or rule out what. A senator of all such cooperation, whether here in the capital area or especially in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a very good answer. I think our hearts are beating in rhythm with projects in the country and what it needs to do, but of course it's not the only areas in the country, we also need to guard up to the southwest corner. I don't want the emphasis to be sliding the other way. But what I was primarily pointing out in my talk was that in order to make an accurate assessment. A senator mentioned what kind of work to do in order not to add to the spell needs to be better analyzed. In view of what interests us, we were told on the subject. We do not have enough analysis of these factors and, in some cases, none at all. It was shown by the Industrial Association that they, along with advisers' unions, can't remember what that company is called, are about to start working as an analysis of infrastructure structures and more. It's very important that this is done. We are not based on such analyses, but we are still setting priorities here and there, and we are struggling with a lot of expansion. That's all we have to do. I have received this information more than once and more than twice from the road to, for example. Action such as the senator mentioned, port and road, as well as other, is not a triple - size project, especially when considering the different national status in terms of impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u79	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. True, she forgot to answer what I was doing inside, anyway. A senator thought that perhaps it should be a means of cooperation in financing. But let it lie in between things. I wondered, " What is in the financial program? ' A senator wants to make changes in order to secure electrical security, which she stepped in highly in with her talk earlier. What exactly is that, any change as a man. A senator wants to see that we work on the budget? And this is connected, it's tough. Senator that it is considered that we change our ownership of Landsnet, i.e. Do you take the Landsnet out of the country's construction as a share of 66% of property, and take that property directly under the state, and the Power farm of the West, and Richard too, and get the possible pension fund as part of the shareholders into the Landsnet, and, by doing so, in the enormously important structure of the electrical distribution system, that we must do because this is one of the only essential factors for the growth of jobs abroad? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u80	V.E.G. President. That was quite an extensive second answer. I don't know if I can finish answering that, and I'm sorry I haven't finished my last question in my previous answer. At first glance, I feel no temptation to take Landsnet out of parentheses. But, of course, it has it like other things, e.g. I think we need to examine the ways in which this might be considered in a public interest. When the situation is as it is now regarding the interior of our complex committees, we have to get ahead and find a way and try to compromise. But the holding on the Landsnet and taking it out of Landing? [[The president calls.]] No, no, no. Senator. Doesn't sound good. But I'd like to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. I'd like to ask her how a financial plan is going to go out with things like the culture of our Icelanders. At that time, I keep in mind the cultural background that surrounds the country, the coast. I have just received an answer from three sources of advice on protecting the cultural mines around the country, the marine waters, and the seawater tides because of the way they affect the spread of culture around the shore. Camps, sea camps, and so on. There's been a lack of money for the Minjah Institute to make a protection plan and registration for all these memories. Either way. A senator sees that a financial plan allows an opportunity to strengthen it. Of course, it's our cultural heritage. It turned out in December before this year that the funds planned for transport between 2015 and 2018 in the marine environment due to the cultural mines of the coast were all thrown out, taken down. I remember about 88 million. So there's not much ambition there. You're really worried about when we're supposed to be on top of the economy that we as a nation don't see our worth in protecting our culture and our history. We don't have palaces or castles or some architecture. [[The president calls.]] It's our culture. What's the matter? A senator on how this is handled in a financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u82	V.E.G. President. I don't have the numbers here with me. I'd have to look up the document that's on my table, my financial plan, about my cultural contributions. Hv. For example, a member of the U.S. Senate named sea cover - control control, and what is widely damaged by such factors as water pollution, water pollution, pollution, and pollution. In my territory, the Southnes, and I know many countries where many people are very concerned about these remarkable cultures. Like what? A senator mentioned we don't have palaces and old medieval cities, but this is our culture, our inheritance, that we have to watch for future generations. Unfortunately, this policy is not reflected in the financial program that there is some special emphasis, unfortunately. During the last session, the presidents of all the political parties agreed that the National Museum would be built, but there is no part of the budget. There is yet another broken promise in our long list of modern times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's just sad that this financial program is not more ambitious than it really is. I'd like to mention only that as a dog. A senator mentioned in his talk about an equation of energy prices in the country. We've only gone through that stuff a little bit, but we're way too slow. I can't find a place where you're walking to the end of this great difference in energy prices, whether in distribution of electricity or house warming costs. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with me that this project needs to be completed, which is just fair and has been on the side of every government for far too long, but it is too slow to move forward, as there is an enormous difference between parts of the country where energy prices in cold areas are high. Either way. A senator sees that there is something being done with and that there is something to do with these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u84	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, there is little need to find in the existing financial strategy that policy is to balance energy prices and ensure greater distribution across the country. It's a little strange in view that now the top-class of the government, the Independence Party, has had its policy since its beginning to be, well, the concept is that it is a category of employment, that it is one of the main objectives of the individual team to ensure a strong nation - wide work environment. But the distribution of energy is not safe across the country all the way the situation is now, and another, you can see it e.g. in the Northern East, and also on the Southnes by line 2, now we only have one line there, Southnes Line 1, that lack of energy has become a high level of construction in these areas. [[The president calls.]] There's really no room for more large companies for now. Because of this, there are a lot of restrictions on the construction of jobs, and I really don't see it in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u85	V.E.G. President. I thank Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for a good speech. It came into the national language. I cut down the financial program on the development of crowds in capital and national areas, and with the permission of a president, I would like to quote what says on the subject of vision and the main objective: ▪ The future vision of the topic field is that all citizens of the country have equal opportunities for employment and services and equal biographies. The main objective of the topic field, as well as the legal objectives of a rural strategy, is to promote regional development within each part of the country, thus equal the opportunities for all the people of the country to work and service, to balance vitality and to promote sustainable development across the country. Special attention should be given to areas where people live with long - standing decreases, unemployment, and monotonous employment. These are very noble goals, but perhaps in many respects, a little air. Today, the forwarding team has a bill at the council awaiting a health vote, a health - care programme in the country. A very handsome Parliamentary proposal that deals with the need for health care throughout the country. We would not need to, in view of the local situation, make similar plans for e.g. Transport? Electric transport and other necessary items to make people want to go ashore? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u86	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's objection, and he would like to recall that when this government, the present right government, heard a voice saying that a combination of the Ministers was not good enough at all, i.e. They were all from the southwestern corner of the country, and we who burn for the local languages were moved by cold water between skin and skin, and they were deeply concerned that the government would not place enough emphasis on the subjects that burn on us, which have the national situation under control, such as e.g. the lay of the house. Good to see you. A senator asks. It would be interesting to hear it from the highest. Minister of borders, if he were in the house, where e.g. The schedule is now in the system. It is quite remarkable, speaking of the present government, that when you read the majority opinion of a financial committee, that is exactly the ideal national settlements that are interested in regional affairs like myself, there are quite another emphasis, in effect, given the contribution of a financial program. The Ministers aren't interested in the locals. Perhaps a local minister could instruct us below if he was now a member of the council. But more of the legal committees are interested in that number. It would be fine if these good people would now talk to each other and reach a common conclusion at some point in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for an interesting answer. I'd like to move on to the tourism service and the service abroad. Today, the number of tourists has increased dramatically. Southland and the southwest corner are under the most pressure. Last year, a plan was made to take travelers to the country and use the Eels State Airport, which was rejected for expenses, fuel costs, and not enough service. There was not enough available to receive tourists. Is it not the prospect of going to work to analyze it as well and put money in increased tourism in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's a good thing he mentions travel because, in view of a lower share of the budget, the advance party, there are some ideas on the distribution of tourists and the construction of the tourism network in Iceland. We've talked about a coming fee or a natural fee or what people want to call it. Such a price could be exported in a way that allows us to control the distribution of tourists better than is currently available in the country, e.g. by having lower comets at airports like Egls. In addition, I would like to point out what has not been so high in the debate on the merit tax and the changes the government would like to make on the basis of a system that the return rate could provide very similar financial resources, such as when both changes, which are a reduction in the upper level of the cost tax and a further increase in accommodations, have been implemented later. With the coming fee, we make both good revenues and make it possible to spread the country to tourists. [[The president calls.]] Let's hit two birds in one strike and we'll do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u89	A respectable president. I'm going to go through a rough line to my review, which came to the wish of a legal committee. I'm sitting as an agent of Pirata on the pro board right now. The employment board received a petition from a financial committee to give a review of the terms of terms of terms of fiscal planning to be adopted by the Committee of Parliaments for Economic Affairs for the past 2018/2022. The main issues under the committee have been reviewed, but they are aware that because of the short time given in consideration, there was no opportunity to give a detailed review of a plan that would apply to the year 2022. It is most reprehensible that we have not had this discussion before on the committee, since there was no one who came to discuss energy with a professional committee. When discussing the matter, the commission arrived at the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, marine emissary, and agricultural minister, Þórdís Kolbrún R., daughter of Gylfadóttir, industrial and innovation minister, and her assistant, Ólafur Guðmundsson. Then came the follow-up staff of the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms for the committees: Kristján the son of Skarphéðinsson, and Guðrún the daughter of Gísladóttir, Ólafur the son of Brynja, and Sigrún, the Einarsdóttir of Guðmundsson, and so on. Then came the Rannis, too. First row consists of studies, innovations, and fields of knowledge. In the years to come, new creations and branches of knowledge are being tailored to a very narrow pattern. The plan covers an estimated 2.6 billion dollars. a cut in the paintings during the season. No data can be seen on the basis of the programme and on other available data on how to comply with the targeted targets in the following topic areas. The review of the plan is on the way of increasing the number of jobs in the fields of knowledge, that is, on its own, a goal. The same value of increased production on the basis of innovation. It is difficult to see how production can be promoted on the basis of increased knowledge on the issue of knowledge. So the aims of the program must be considered unrealistic. However, the goal of trusting institutions, companies and schools is to go to international funds. In this way development and technology development will be financed in Iceland. I think it's amazing. Travelers are now experiencing quite a disturbance in the affairs of tourists. A huge dissatisfaction was made in the visitor's case regarding the proposed change in merit taxation, and in fact, at that meeting there was little more to talk about than the increase in merit taxation. The schedule also allows for an injection of funds during the first two years of the period, followed by a reduced budget. Although there is a right development in order to legalize a righteous wage from the industry, there is a sharp possibility that, at the same time, legal rights are cut down. If the plan remains unconvinced, it is to be expected that the largest growing rod of Icelandic employment will not be brought to the prospects it would like to maintain. A major risk to the future in Iceland is to create a group of paintings that are as big as this one is not taken in hand. In addition, the increase in cost-to-treat tax worth in the tourism service should be protected to establish its base and control. On energy issues. In fact, I had come in a little bit. However, the minister came to the trade committee and explained the legal group. No institutions or stakeholders came there except for the representatives of the EEA, who, in turn, stepped onto an energy exchange programme, particularly the land transfer of ships and such. Is that true of many major projects mentioned in the above - mentioned program? Based on budgetary contributions from existing financial programmes, none of them will succeed. So the group of languages is subsidized and neglected. Thus, the Icelandic country will own several square meters of new analysis and reports that will become a well - chosen paper path. This group of subjects consists of the development of electricity. It is an ancient project that has gone on for so many decades that we are still talking about the fact that most towns in the country cannot get a three - part electricity. For marketing surveillance and consumers. Budget plan describes the increased transparency, active competition, and healthy business practices as a basic policy for the future in this category. The concept would have been that the current government set a good example in these matters and made sure that the financial agenda presented here was based on the same values, especially on the aim of evaluating the knowledge of firms on principled principles. Based on the way oil companies have been controlled here, there seems to be a considerable knowledge of competitive laws and how to compromise them, so I cannot see that this goal is especially good. Farming. New signed domestic agreements include a recession to the seminary. Yet, there is a number of projects in this article that are worth supporting today. In particular, these include the development of a database aimed at ensuring the traceability of products. I'm sorry it's not being done today. It's a terrible situation not to be able to make a special place with their farms, since farmers can't compete to be with them, for example. a sea baited lamb or a flavoured lamb or just given his sheep a beer to taste them taste better. But there's nothing to it, because when the wolves go to the slaughter, they come back and you don't even know if the meat you put in butchered meat is from you. But this is a good goal for them. In fishing and fishing. In order to inform the members of the Commission on the reporting process of the trade board, the head of the industry and the head of the network came in. A conversation with a local representative stated that there was little or no consultation with them on the basis of the case. The cost analysis of projects was evident within the Department of Employment and Development prior to the distribution of financial programs as a Senate document. Clearly, then, solid data and statistics were deliberately kept out of the schedule. At the same time, it was observed that although an individual institution received all the provisions of a minister, it did not contribute to the funding of existing tasks. So it has to be concluded that the list of projects presented in a financial program is as important as the election's election reserve. A respectable president. This concludes my review, which was written at the request of the money committee. Perhaps there could have been more to say about these areas, but the cold reality is that such meat is on the bones of the financial program that it can be difficult to bring strong criticism, just as it is difficult to identify an invisible person. The current budget is oscillating, unambiguous, and has just as much contact with reality and political policies. But there are things outside of my subject. On page 18. 278, on university level, target I, says, by permission of the President: Would you like to study in college? Improved learning progress reduces student debt and contributes to improving the use of educational funds. The plan is to set some goals and save for students in high school, i.e. If you cut short on school and get a lower student loan, it's good for students. However, it is never taken into account that there may be some students at the university who may find it difficult to be in this position. First of all, a financial program says that people have to be improved by the speed of study as well as that those who can continue their normal study schedule should be rewarded, i.e. to strengthen those who are at a natural rate of study and not those who are not. - But punishing family students to the best of their ability. At the same time, people with learning problems are showing favoritism. That is, in one sentence, let's discipline the strong and fuck the others. Air travel is hardly a matter of financial matters. However, it has been discussed that perhaps the parts of Leifs are to be sold to private employment that produce some income. I have read a series of articles that put high risks on a crew, so it's not easy for the state to hold on to this kind of operation. I must ask: Is this idea merely a matter of interest to a few government officials, or is there more to it? I don't see that these earnings are set aside in a financial plan or any purpose of it. For decades, bats and organizations around them have drawn all the money from a U.S. Airway to the United States. So I have to criticize any movement towards the state to stop her operation. In health matters, I must give a review. S. Brjánsson of the Committee's Committee members, 3rd, less of the legal committee. It's about the ambulance. By permission of the President: ▪ There is no longer any contract in force to transport the country. Contracts with the Red Cross, Iceland, on the operation of the ambulance B.H. The Ministry of Health went down two years ago. Despite the advances of RIM, who operate the automobiles and their equipment, the situation has not been resolved again. The Ministry has not given up whether they will meet with the same party again, whether they will accept the ministry, or the service will be offered to a private person. The contract is underestimated because of the increased cost of the ministry, which includes the field ministry. in better - equipped automobiles How could such an important link in the medical system be out of agreement? This is illustrated by what is happening to us in the health - care system. I don't see that the purpose of the Red Cross is to apply. Therefore, it would be reasonable to assume that no such measures and costs for them are calculated into medical matters. However, we can be glad that the plan will consider air and land-reporting medical procedures. I can see that they plan well on buying helicopters. It may be fun to find that there are helicopters in Norway, and perhaps there is a plan to think about Norway in this regard. In the P.R., an additional $4 billion is estimated. The problem, however, is that two large groups of people are under the police on the one side and the National Guard on the other. The identity of this money cannot be determined, but the police have not benefited from it and are shamed. Since 2011, a number of police officers have taken their place in pay. During the period of pay ups will be expected. At the same time, a legal program describes the need for more policemen as being considerable. Despite the promise of a new helicopter, it is not revealed who should be human. On the other hand, it is clear to everyone that the amount of money promised to the seminar is not even enough for one helicopter, let alone the three. And as we discuss helicopters, we now have a lease on a rescue helicopter that cannot be used for rescue work because it is prepared. Why is that? In fact, the helicopter looks fine in a flight helicopter book, but it does little else. Also, there is no particular objective that the National Guard buys fuel in Iceland, but as noted, the Hostage has seen parishion tools in getting fuel to the Faeroe Islands. Maybe it's time for the Iceland government to negotiate an oil purchase at Costco.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk that I would have liked to have more time to ask about because it made me feel that much interesting. Maybe I should start by asking about it for a reason. A senator came in on innovation and evolution and, well, cuts, I couldn't understand any better. Because I don't sit on a job committee and I don't have this insight as a dog. A senator has, and as he came in, it's very complicated and broad, you're not somehow in the same shape as this. As much as a political scheme? asked him. Senator. Perhaps as much as the government's declaration of policy because it has a special feature on innovation and evolution, a handsome feature of research and development and the role of competitive funds will be expanded to research into creative articles. Increased access to growth of the growth sector for innovation and creative enterprises, to foreign markets and necessary foreign expertise, etc. Is none of these beautiful promises found in the Treaty in this financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u91	You see, that's the thing. There's very little financial plan about this. On the other hand, the aim alone is to increase the skill of institutions, schools, and businesses in foreign funds. Actually, we're planning to do this for someone else's money so we can make it up here. That's how rough it is. This promise can be fulfilled in parentheses. But the reality is that there is an enormous recession, and even the minister himself was concerned about just this class. She thought it was kind of indefinable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's interesting, but maybe it's the same thing you've heard about. Officers. Money is not necessarily to be put on jobs but to be taken by institutions themselves. I can think of a forest culture where there's no wood. The government is not necessarily going to place money but to rely on a private driver to get to it. Hv. A senator introduced energy exchange in his case. I find it interesting, if I noticed correctly, that the Environment Minister had come and discussed this matter with one guest at a meeting. Business committee. It's a case on the top. Secretary of the trade. I have as an agent for what? The Environment and Transport Committee is looking for the financial resources that need to enter the necessary infrastructure should follow the energy exchange programme. It's obvious that a large line structure has to be done. Electricity must be ensured in many parts of the country, taken over by the system. [[The president calls.]] Shared. A senator with me not to find a place for them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u93	A respectable president. It is not true, however, that the Environment Minister has visited the Committee but the Agency. The energy exchange was just there, but there was no one from Landsnet. However, it became evident in the energy exchange program itself, and it was the very thing that, surely, the Landsnet and the Energy Company of the West and other members may have financed it in some way. They may have been financing for many years. It's been going, but there's gotta get money out of the way to speed up the important projects facing in Iceland's energy transport, especially to make sure that we can power-cure. There are no proper systems in the country and highways so we can electricalise the vehicle fleet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u94	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson introduced many issues in his speech. I'd like to go ahead for a moment, since a second answer was taken up in research, innovation, and articles of knowledge. A senator says that it is the policy to increase the number of jobs in knowledge articles, but at the same time, there is a restraint on the topic field. I'm worried about how we should be able to do this for the future, because at the same time there is an increasing requirement for education when it comes to it. I want to pray. A senator only sees this because he also came into the academic language in his speech, whether there is a certain contradiction, is planning to have a higher level of knowledge, but at the same time, to slang more deeply when it comes to the educational issues of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u95	A respectable president. This is exactly what I have been worried about. However, with a new bill on LIN, people could still study abroad. That's good. We're not going to isolate ourselves here in Iceland with our knowledge and whisper it in circles until we're native. But about this. It's not just there. It's also in the Food Institute and Marine Research Institute. The staff are being reduced, the people are on retirement contracts and the like. New and fresh people are not being hired in there. The research is not being financed, funding knowledge in Iceland. It's en route. In fact, fascist societies are thrilled that knowledge does not exist, since there are so few who can stand during revolutions and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u96	Madam President. Knowledge is not being financed. I think this is a key and one of the things we should be discussing the most because it's a concern for the future, and of course it's related to whether we really want to get through the climate change from man to man. Of course, it requires investment in knowledge and new technologies. That's why I'd like to ask. A panel of professionals who have been on a professional committee and is the highly developed committee, whether they agree that it is completely unacceptable to me, when it comes to this category of knowledge, that the expenditure of Iceland's commitments to the climate goals of the United Nations and whether it is not in this category and in the context of these issues must be taken into account on climate issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u97	Yes, I share this concern. That's exactly what it is. A seafaring and agricultural minister, Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, speaks of her wanting to build up here on the land of knowledge agriculture, does not really understand that concept but herself, I think. But with this, research around the country and climate change: We watch that we have cold waters north of us, and the pH is rising. It's easier to eat colder water. When it reaches the Crimean dot, the shell - forming plant will cease to collapse. But there's not a dollar in the Edro to investigate this. But I'm sure it'll be the priority in the box as well as in everything in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson for his excellent speech. He made it clear that there would have been a short period of time for the preparation of this financial program and a committee article for the introduction to this discussion. Does he think that this has affected the quality of the discussion that we now have? He mentioned the ambulance, which, of course, we're worried about. It seems to be at the very height. Our Ministry has begun to think of other arrangements, but the successful cooperation that has lasted 60 years with the Red Cross and negotiate with other parties on it. He also mentioned the helicopter flight. Has a what? A senator's idea that we should go to the air with an ambulance? [[The president calls.]] It's been taken care of by the National Guard, but the further renewal on helicopters may not be suitable for a medical flight directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u99	The government is just one of my hobbies. What I find is that our cousins in Norway have all their medical flights in helicopters. There are no medical planes in Norway, for obvious reasons. In Norway, flying into the fjords is like on the West. It's just crazy people who do it. But since I see an opportunity, if we coordinate a medical flight and the field service, we will likely have to increase the number of crews and the number of helicopters. They can play a double role. As a result, all I see is an opportunity to promote our privacy and her helicopter flight. Because it's out of order today. It's not always that we can send helicopters to places. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u100	A respectable president. The available committee views more of the legal committee than just a few jobs. Yet, it is reported that in various areas of the country, public work has decreased, which is of course a concern. Counts 'em out. A senator says that there is a possibility of increasing the number of specialized projects in certain areas of the country? I'll think of something like that. in seas and branches related to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u101	A respectable president. Yes, of course, I see an opportunity to increase the number of jobs in the fishing field. The one standing here has given us strong testimony that we need to increase the number of beach fishing. I don't see pay expenses at the cost of per se. It's not the same as oil or anything like that. In the back, there is a family. And when the family's behind her, she's probably gonna have to eat food, so that coin goes into society, but it's not bleeding out through oil companies and that kind of thing. Then, too, with such a fishing project, a small boat making, all fish come ashore. All the side effects that are now going into the water when we're on the cryo-bots, you can work. In fact, there we have found that they are more valuable than the frayed ones themselves. So I see a lot of opportunities in the construction of the fishing grounds, but I don't see them in the present system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He only moved into the country and talked about Norway. There I feel that I have considerable ignorance of matters. In Norway, airplanes from seven different locations and helicopters transport the disease. Norwegians divide the land into seven areas, comparable to the land - all over the land being carried out by the Landsspians. All of these are aircraft and helicopters. Tromsø is the best example for us Icelanders to see how the Norwegians do this. It is similar to the distance between two hundred and twenty - five miles (5,250 - 450 km) of airlines, so it is handled by airplanes and others by helicopters. So I'm very sorry if at the High Council it's a false case about how the cousins'country handles their own business. I wanted to make this point. Has a what? A senator studies the subject of a medical flight in Norway so thoroughly when he has it up here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u103	A respectable president. Like what? Friðbertsson On the inside, he noticed that I told him that a medical flight in Norway would only be done with helicopters. This is what I was told about people who know about. Obviously, they do not know them well enough. So I admit to being defeated there. However, I had been inspecting helicopters and hospital flights because I had been told that patients in helicopters could not be transferred from pressure or flight past weathers and such. When I'm told that a medical flight in Norway would only happen in helicopters, I leapt naturally to that as an opportunity. But it may be in some way wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u104	Madam President. Yes, thank you for the answer. You see, I think a lot of us here at a council meeting would be most desirable if we were to study these matters carefully. This is important and big. In Iceland, ambulances have about 85% of air planes and 15% helicopters. As we know in the discussion that I took here, in a special discussion recently, the idea of buying three large helicopters is similar to today. It's because of land immunity, economic law, distance, and so forth, they need to be withdrawn. But they're big, they're heavy machines. This may be three times, four times the cost of moving with such a large helicopter as a plane. But I can't rule out anyone looking at the helicopters with the intention of trying to get smaller helicopters for some transport. But medical helicopters don't solve emergency planes in Iceland in any way. It'll be late.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u105	A respectable president. It's simply that what I'm afraid of about this bargain is that we don't buy the right helicopters, they don't put pressure on them to hold the same pressure in the helicopters as on the ground, which is in airplanes. Theland Guard's helicopters today are not in that way. This is one of the things that might need to be taken into consideration. The National Guard may well get some medical flights on helicopters. But it's no wonder, since her helicopters are simply not made for a medical flight. I don't know, I just saw an opportunity for Iceland to adjust from wearing long-range helicopters that could be used for hospital and so forth, and therefore have a double shift of both sailors and sick people in Iceland, which is not today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u106	A respectable president. As it turned out, against who. Friðbertsson It's good to be informed about the issues now, which is a little about the financial agenda. The material of the financial program does not give us enough information about what we do for the next five years. This is clearly seen in the review of the financial Council on the lack of transparency and access to information in the program. I would like to proceed with my committee's opinion and discuss the technical development of the financial programme. On June 2, 2016, the General Assembly agreed to agree on the computer format of a Senate document. It doesn't really mean that the law should appear as a html web, or as a pdf document, but should be distinct and readable in a computer-created way. This means that the computer should be able to read the Parliamentary documents and their information in a standard way, without the non-employable information that is relevant to the computer. There is now the website for talks and committee meetings and a number of things, but there is a lack of this for law-engineering data and general data, e.g. in public finance. It is also specifically stated in the public financial law that the bank budget and the bill budget should be available in computer formats and that data should be available to all to post-recycling in a computer-created way. Sadly, however, it is not stated that the same should be true of a financial budget, as financial tips indicate access to numbers behind the financial information in a financial programme are presented. It's not enough to see the chart. The data behind this should be accessible. If the plot shows a dialogue, the data that are combined must be accessed. The design of a list of tasks is a different matter. The products of the media may also be somewhat more technical. The software program often uses a method called Agile for projects. The aim of the task category is to regularly set priorities for short periods at a time. Of course, it is a little difficult for a five - year plan, but in view of the big picture, the whole list of projects is still available, even though it changes slightly in each part of the plan. It allows designers to cope with their changed circumstances without too much effort in matters of importance. When one project has been completed that it is unnecessary, we don't have to do it, we can just drop it, or we can prioritize it, because we've found something else, we've got new information. The transparency of the financial plan list does not include just how vague the criteria of the projects are or the lack of the precise cost analysis required. Opacity also involves the fact that the non-recognised tasks are not known outside the ministry or agency. It is essential that the Council be made available to these task list of advisers in order to make financial decisions on their tasks. Thus, the Parliament can take a position on matters such as priorities and the consequences of changes in financial resources to the topic field. What task will be eliminated if we decide to reduce financial resources, and what additional work will be added if we decide to expand? What is the effect on the timelines for which assignments are delayed, or what projects will be done sooner? This is a top priority for making financial decisions. A minimum of four items suggest that the public financial legislation will be changed in order to cover the financial and information published, to open up the topic framework and to publish priorities in which standards are explained and stated more in the cost- and benefit analysis of the projects to go to the top of the list. There must be a requirement for a project to be carried out that costing it has been met. There must be a requirement for the Council to agree that a project should be carried out that costs have been assessed, that is published in a financial programme, and then in financial terms. An application could be created, e.g. showing project distribution to the next year, according to priorities, costs and funding. Then we will be able to see better as we adjust the impact that this will have on our work. If we decide to move a project further into time and shorten the time, we will see exactly by the cost analysis how this will affect the overall issues. There is just one other thing that has been missing, that is, a comparison, a comparison of developments. In a financial program, comparison with the previous years is very difficult because we have just entered a new organization. Substitutions in these areas are new. It has only been reassigned earlier budgets to 2010, but reclassification of at least To the year 2000, because we need to compare a similar period of time with what is now, economicly speaking. It's hard to compare data from the crash to the data of the past few years. Well, circumstances are not comparable, so if we take information based on what the situation is now based on how it was 2010, we get a completely different conclusion. It's not the same economic situation. I've been asking for these data, I've sent a request to the secretary of finance and economics, but it's highly unlikely that they'll be available before the end of this council, as there are several hard work to go through all the data back to 2000. It's a gradual process. The sooner the better. Yet, there is one field of topics that is relatively easy to compare with previous budgets. You see, in previous budgets, there is always a table divided according to UN CRFOG standards. There is a language group called health care. In the current medical climate category, the range of topics is very well defined as related to health care. There are language fields such as hospital services, non-medium medical services, nursing and rehabilitation services, and medicinal products and medical products. The rise of the case party health issues, and then the topic areas, together, are very similar. It's a lot more expensive and clearly more extensive than the COFOG class. Still, it is very interesting to compare these two sizes. According to the media, the increase is between 2017 and 2022 17.9%, with the construction of a new hospital. The increase is 8.8% without the hospital. According to COFOG, there is a 25.9% increase in that topic class, health issues, in the year 2000◯2005. A 26% increase is observed in 2001●2006. The increase is 20.3%. A 18.6% increase is reported in 2003-2008. The mean increase over all four periods is a 22.7% increase, a significantly greater than the topic range over the financial period. This shows that there is less increase in health care during a financial program than there are in all equally long periods of failure despite not building a new hospital. There may be some minor error, however, because the exact same tasks are not being compared. However, to consider an increase in the COFOG Department, there should be as good evidence of increased contribution to the health of the health sector as if we considered an increase to the products listed earlier. To compare these increases should provide a somewhat good comparative picture. This will not be in the best interests of the current financial programme, taking into account the big words given by the government on the basis of health contributions. It is true that it is true, but it has always been true, except in the collapse. Health contributions, which since then have always been up - to - date, were added together in the kronos, in 2009 to 2012. It was not until 2016 that donations had returned to the most important contribution since 2008. Politicians tend to beat their breasts and say they're doing the other thing better than before. When it comes to such speech, it is necessary to examine the actual evidence behind the claims. It is often more likely than not that the truth is being adjusted by talking about centenarian increases when it is properly compared with increases. In the end, of course, there is always the need to determine whether projects were successful and if goals have been achieved, so that there is little easy for them to do. Every time people talk about being doing something awesome here and there, they need a closer look at it. In my coverage of the financial program, I have mentioned pay development in which there is an increase in salary of 9.0% in the period. I couldn't see that it was counted in the numbers where, for example, it would be calculated. 7.7% increase in funds to the university was expected. I assumed that it was really going well, but after further notice, I found that the extra payoffs have been expected. This was very interesting to me, since in the financial frame, the current pay, the pay cost. Outside the budget is then added to the rise intended for the period. I think it's very strange. This draws my attention to the lack of the transparency that I believe is in financial planning and financial advisers feel the same way. You can't easily tell which aspects are included in the amount in each subject field. You can't just look at the topic field and see that there's 30% in salary and 50% in business and something in monotonous work, etc. You'll at least be to be able to see the current position and whether there will be any significant changes in these proportions over the years. That's a top priority in policy. Are we going to change something beyond what is happening today? You see, this financial program does not answer. That is why an office like the businessman in the capital area and the local sheriff's office are asking for his contributions. They will appear to be cut off because buying helicopters is emphasised or they see an enormous increase in donations by refugees as they see that making donations to the office is affected. It does not explain that there will be an unchanged condition in these institutions; it does not guarantee that there will be no cutting down, nor will it be added, either a project that is unsaturable or an extracurricular charge. They need information like that, that kind of insurance, really. It's policy to say we're not going to change anything. It's one kind of policy. So when it comes to changing something, you make it clear that here is a project that has a specific dimension. Although not necessarily specific to which institutions are funded, it can be observed, and this is especially divided. The financial programmes have just a lot of information that says that something fits within the framework, is not the cost rate at this point or that the work is not the same. All of this makes financial programs not telling us what to do. This means that when a financial bill follows, we need to consider what is going on there, guess what will happen for the next four years. We have no idea, either. We really need to resume the discussion. That was not the purpose of a government law. The purpose was to take up the discussion of where they were being cut down and where they were adding earlier so that they would not have to do it again around Christmas and the season, as they have been doing during the past few years. [[The president calls.]] I think it's all headed for it because the information is missing in financial programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders has done well in reviewing his comments on this matter. It would be unsettled to consider just one point in such a brief matter. But what's wrong. A senator has said about the form I have found interesting, for I am as a humble member of the administrative body at work. The environment and transport committees have had to deal with this same structure, and perhaps there's even more fighting for us in the non-whispered professional committees. It's a legal committee. We've watched trying to figure out who the frame is. Let's just leave it alone, there's not numbers in 2017, you don't see the raise properly, you have to do some information from here and from there. But, hey. A senator made a good impression on organizations that are very uncertain about the status of this financial strategy for the next few years. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The environment and transport committees experienced a wide range of uncertainty. Some were concerned about the future because they did not know what would happen, whether some increase that had even been spoken of or promised was included or not. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator, taking advantage of his position to look up a little bit about the form because I know he's taken a good look at it: How can this be stated in a clearer way?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u108	A respectable president. Part of it is what I set up on the technical development of financial programmes. In policymaking, we say what we are going to do in the future, so when we make a decision about it later, that is not a good decision. This financial plan is almost completely missing. I've put it in e.g. The discussions of financial policy and now over and over in discussions about the financial agenda must be developed ideas about how a plus or minus a person in each topic field is cut down. Even if it doesn't change. Then there must be a similar discussion in the budget whether something is changing, up or down, whether the combination of funds - not necessarily the individual institutions, one case can be enough, along with the guarantee, or that the amount of money to the individual institutions will not be altered. If this is to change, and people think that it will happen, they must first be put forward in a financial programme and explain that there are no more emphasis on financial contributions, such as. developed research on the pH of the sea. This is shown in a financial program before being shown up in financial matters. If you don't say so, you don't expect to change, but you don't know, because there's so much ◯munity in the box, and the numbers just don't fit in there, given the cost of the tools and the size of the frame. Then you must say, "Show me the breach."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u109	A respectable president. Stays within the frame, I guess it's the sentence that you've heard most of the time in this frame of things. That's what you should call the highest. Government. But just as this is so because we are now discussing financial policy with a budget roof. We have the financial plan, and then we have the budget. I realize we're doing this for almost the first time and we're somehow learning how to do it. I've found it shocking how misleading information and data have come from problems. For what? The Environment and Transport Committee gave us access to the Department of Transport so approximately on the switch of business and construction, possible budget forms, if I remember correctly, 2018, and then 2021 or 2022, I don't remember, everything else was from the highest level. Environment Ministry. [[The president calls.]] You've heard this information from committees. There are very different data. Is that not shocking at this job?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u110	A respectable president. Somehow, the numbers in each complex field came into being. We simply ask people to explain how they developed. So I'll cut down a little bit on our profile on the pro board, but this applies to other committees, including the General and Education Committee, where I only came in, that's where, by permission of the President: ▪ The Commission's review, as well as other committees, was a kind of hurryer, where reporters were piled through the committee as if they were being marked in a box on which visitors arrived and thus would be the democratic role of reporters. It was just the same on a budget board. A financial committee was introduced to the committee, to the Economic and Business Committee, and to a financial committee at once. In fact, they did not have enough time to dig more and more accurately in the analysis of financial resources. In fact, we just got to ask a few superficial questions and to confirm that it was as it seemed to be, that the transparency was just a complete mess, and that many things were lacking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u111	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson,'s request for a very familiar and interesting speech. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council talked a little about what he was talking about. He spoke a lot about the transparency of this national budget that we are discussing here and the vague criteria behind the budget and even the financial policy adopted here before this budget was discussed. He spoke of a transparency in a controlled budget program and how difficult it is to compare the development of budgets, i.e. Generalis's surveillance role will be much weaker when we do not have this comparison or when we have to work very hard to figure out whether there is an increase in the number of subjects or not. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator how and whether a public and computer database could help to increase the transparency or whether this would be just an increased transparency for the public to observe how and what basis for our decision at work. I'm asking because I don't completely understand all these technical issues that are behind us and how we might use the technology and the statistics to work on this. I'd like to ask him about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u112	A respectable president. I mentioned here some vague standards, such as. the number of Boy Scouts or registered members in KFUM and KFUK. I do not know exactly what the criteria are for whether the project was successful or not in that case and in some other cases, but all tasks are not the same. Many of them had standards that I didn't understand were some kind of successful task, if their standards were met. A database that gathers the information we create equally, as you put in new budgets and government bills as well as the like, helps us in our surveillance role because when we ask: " What are we doing now, is something that can tell us what it has been like before? ' helps to answer questions about how we continue. If we are to make a decision about one direction, we can ask: Has this been done before and in a similar situation? And whether it is a good decision or not. Also, the surveillance work is on the subject of guests and the time we receive with guests. I often feel as I described earlier, as if the members of the council are just put in a committee and then guests come along; they are done and gone, and then the next guests are done and gone, and you are not able to get the conversation with a vagrant and a professional about how the real thing is done. It takes a lot of deep, long conversations that we'll never get for the Committee. So I feel that it is damaging to the council's surveillance role, although this is not related to the financial agenda. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm going to continue to discuss the lack of transparency with regard to the budget, or the national financial programme. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " The local senator is mixed with the basic cost and the cost of operating in many places and in some cases with the current salary cost but not in the future. Where there's so much transparency, and there was a very good impression on my job. The welfare committee, which was difficult for the institutions, and a client, to understand what they were really getting a lot of money to promote or maintain their function, was difficult to do, except by a very large amount of diagnostic work, and to get very capable individuals to find out exactly what it would be. As noted in the state financial program, there is in fact a 23% increase in hospital service, but when clients had dived into it with a very large amount of work, it was found that there were only 338 billion that the increase was, in fact, considerably below what the budget is about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You wonder if there is a need to improve this practice, separate the cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u114	A respectable president. This is the perfect key, the perfect key. People who are elected to Congress are not all experts, far from it. We're here according to our own convictions. That is our conviction when we press the button yes or no. So that we can press the yes or no button, we need the best information available in front of us. If the experts who bring up the committees do not have that information, or if they had better information, they'd give us better comments that would further help us to be sure that we were doing the right things when we voted with or against some change in the law. It's a key figure, I think, in the Senate job. I don't experience that there are the circumstances in which we are going. We're not set up for this. We don't have time for that, and professionals are not given time to provide us, who are not experts, with the best possible information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I want to enter the land's poverty and whether it is. A senator sees that the language people talk about during a battle, and so the discussion seems to drift away, and somehow it goes out to do something to reduce the poverty of the land that is indeed there. Now it seems in this financial program that support through the child - reform system should not be increased. System support has been decreasing over the past few years and the number of families who have been eligible for child support has decreased. This decrease has decreased by nearly 12,000 between 2013 and 2016, and the decline rate was increased in 2015. The conclusion is that child - welfare expenses are being reduced, and they will continue to be supported by young children. This is turning into support for all, the poorest. Of course, there are many more who need child support during these difficult times when people are doing so much at once, raising children with expenses, building homes, and renting homes and all that comes from running home and family. What does it say? A senator on how the government treats young children in a financial program that continues until the next five years? Are they being improved?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u116	A respectable president. This is exactly why we asked professional reviews to help you understand this better than the financial program shows. I tried to cross those numbers. As with so many other financial issues, I soon ran out of answers to those questions. My honest answer to this is that I have no idea because the answers were nowhere to be found. I don't know if it's going up or down. I can't answer that because the figures on what the family's going up aren't disintegrated. It's as simple as that. I don't remember exactly what the welfare committee says, so I can look it up here, but it's boring to do it in a lock, so I'll just slide over it before I answer a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u117	Mr. President. It is not good to have a financial program that is not clear on whether to reduce or increase support to children. All signs are that children should continue to be affected. But I'd like to keep asking about what concerns young people like stocks and stocks. In 2014, his share in insurance was reduced from 1.28% to 0.65%. It doesn't seem that the tax system is being reinvented. Is that the same understanding? A senator? Can he read from a financial program to five years of age that support young people through the housing system, whether they are support for the building of tenants or the support of building apartments - I'm talking about people who don't have much money between their hands - growing in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u118	A respectable president. The priorities are a little strange in these family matters. There is an increase in the maximum pay of obstetrics, but at the same time, the increase is not necessarily expected to be raised by price. In the year 2020, there may be no increase in real value when the increase is due to occur, to your total volume of 5,500, U.S.R. K. This was one of the factors that were drawn out. Much of the rest is still quite invisible. Now there is a shortage of apartments, especially in the southwest corner. A financial plan allows for 1,800 general apartments between 2018 and 2021. There is a need for structure for 2,000 apartments a year just to keep up with the population development. A report or analysis of national records showed that they were missing even up to 8,000 apartments. Now you don't even know how these 1,800 generals will be, where to build them, how expensive they really will be, how expensive a building site, and how much like it. There are many questions about how we will solve our housing problem, and most of it is more doubt - not so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u119	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a proposal for a resolution of a financial plan for 2018/2022 with a subsequent discussion. Since I didn't have the opportunity to get to the first discussion, I feel that it is important to share certain viewpoints here. There are many things in this program that need to be considered, and many members of the council are involved and are the best. I will, however, address only a few things. I have wondered what matters with this discussion now that we are going through the overall process under the new government laws and how the work can be most successful. Of course, the overall vision is of far greater importance than the fact that we look at individual issues and that it is in harmony with the will of the Council as it has been published in the previous approved programmes and policies. That they are working according to the existing implementation programmes, often in transpiritian terms. It also makes me feel very important to have a prior opinion of the rules of budgets, which rules of sort apply, and how the basis for sharing funds is found. For example, this may apply to the estimated number of students in high school, which I have found difficult to figure out. Similarly, it is important that the basic services in each field be defined so that we know where the priority lies when the budget is set. For example, it may refer to health care, the basic services of health care and transportation, to name something. In view of this, it is very important to have plans in more fields than we now have. If so, I would like to mention a medical program that has emphasized the importance of this council by members of the Parliament. This is not only a key factor for the speakers but also for members of Congress themselves when they review the plan as it is available. I've heard it on the discussion, both in the platform and in the discussions with members of the council who have been working on committees, that the comments of outsiders differ in different ways. I think it's always good for us senators to keep in mind the different roles of the reporters. Not everyone can have a full vision. It's the role of a particular person and ours here to watch the bigger picture. That's the way it is, for example. It is very important to see the picture as it turns toward the inhabitants of a certain part of the country. The aim of a national body of members to review whether a service in the areas where there is a major difference in schedules, whether an equality is being cared for, whether a project scheduled to take place within a schedule, should continue to be counted. I also believe that the long discussion we are in right now is important, even though some people believe that it has grown to a full length of time. That is often the case here, some of whom feel that it is far too short. Thus, the work of others is more connected with the financial work at the General than has been practiced in the past. In the years that followed, a stronger frame of discussion and work might be shaped, but I think that it will be very important to continue looking forward to the fact that as most members of the council can participate in the discussion and that ministers can be active in the conversation with both discussions. Back to policy for topic fields and litigation classes. By the 5th and 20th. the legislation on public financial matters shall present policy-making policies for the financial sector. It also states that each minister sets out policies for the issues and lawsuits to which he is responsible. In a financial program submitted a year ago, environmental policy was published, and in a budget bill of 2017, policy was published for individual language groups. They are now being integrated into work, and they recognize policy schemes for both grammatical and litigation sectors. This is how the General shall receive information. In the appendix, policies for 34 topic areas and 101 seminars were presented. It's not easy to figure out these policies and put in context for the first time you go through them, but I hope this will get better in the coming years. I would like to emphasize at the outset what I said that there is no way that a financial agenda can be proposed completely independent of the policy that the General has already accepted, unless there is a specific explanation for the potential inconsistency there. I therefore believe that one of the most important work committees, i.e. Other committees, noncommittee, are reviewing the harmony reflected in the litigation categories under the committees when faced with the adjustment, long - term plans, and projections. To some extent, this has been done in the reviews of the committee, but I think there's something to make up for. Enough about work. I'm going to move on to special groups of subjects and first stop on transportation. It shows that it is not consistent with the policy adopted by the General in the transphere agreement and the schedule as it is known, where the need for transport is not expected, which, of course, is one of the most urgent projects at the moment. An attempt is not made to correct the inconsistencies between transport and financial programmes of transport. When protests began to be received from the public early this year because of the preconceived transport cuts, this year it is inconspicuously out of harmony with the speech of many executives. Hence, it seems that the government is going to skip the opportunity here to correct the mistakes made in the budget for 2017. It should be clear to all that the four-year, four-year, transport action programme is only expected to be absolutely necessary, and the failure to follow it is contraband. It would have been much more necessary than to slow down. At the same time, it is clear that the government's problem is at home. The objective of the government to return 1.5% of funds at the same time as 2% is announced is very limited to this kind of project. Or, as stated in the opinion of the 2nd reduction of the environment and transport committee as yet. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson signed, if possible, could respond to urgent transport demand by reducing the cost of at least half a percent. As has often been observed in the discussions here, the expansion is not nearly everywhere outside the capital area. Thus, transportation projects in the region could be used. This is also shown in a committee study of a 2nd smaller section of the budget board. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdótttir signing, in particular the comments of the Industrial Association that despite the importance of restraining public expansion, it is at the same time impossible to overlook the urgent need for investment in the infrastructure. The official level of investment is low. As a result, the subjugation of society's competitiveness is undermined. It is important to start the preparation and design so that there can be a start at a time when space is created. It was also noted at a meeting with representatives of the Industrial Association that there is now little work to be done at work in the low construction level on road construction and activation projects and the lack of analysis for the presence of infrastructure. As far as I can see, most of the transport committees share the same opinion, focusing on the construction and implementation of transport in cold areas, i.e. where thawing cannot be maintained. So there are strange discrepancies that are expressed in words and actions of the greater part. I believe the development of transport workers needs more. It is absolutely essential that it be greater in maintaining competitiveness between national and national parts of the country. Then you could pick up a few things I was surprised not to see in the schedule. One thing is that the construction of a Museum of Nature is not to be expected, but as it is noted, the proposal to build a nation's capital in natural studies agreed together as Council No. 70/145, 2016. That conclusion gave the promise that the Museum of nature would finally set in motion, but it has long since been time for more than a century of fighting. A Museum of nature may never have been more important than right now. We really need to increase our understanding of the natural world. It also matters to us in the structure of our tourism services and our role in the exchange of information about nature in the northern regions of the world, important to us in the international community and the cooperation we are in. Thus, it is a real disappointment that a Museum of Nature is not mentioned in the financial program for the coming years. There are other factors, such as the absence of funds in the proposed cultural building that was to be built at the places of Egress. Then, a minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, signed a declaration on the project on a trip east of Eglskolls two weeks before the election in October. It was to be completed in the slaughterhouse, in the cultural building at Egls, and in the museum. However, the promise has rapidly vanished despite the possibility of a contract. One thing many members of Parliament have talked about here is high school and university status. At least I want to come into high school. As indicated by the Committee Department of Overseers, a lower portion of the budget is presented. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Dögnsdótttir signed, was in the financial programme adopted for 2017-2021, assuming that contributions to high school would increase by 3.2 billion to the real value of the period, or that represent nearly 12% of the period's physical growth. At the same time, significant business savings were expected in the high school system because of reduced study periods from four to three years. The plan assumed that all the savings that fell to shortening would remain within the system and be about to further increase the high school level. That certainly is not the case in a new financial program. These contributions are reduced from what was previously planned, so in 2018 they remain in real value but slightly lower thereafter, by about 0.6% annually, corresponding to 630 million dollars. That's what's been collected in the season. A savings that will result from short - term study for a student's school course from four years to three years is taken from the high schools across the bounds. There would have been every reason to make use of the space to improve the work and to-do in line with the financial goals set out in the budget. In addition, I believe that several other things that have been discussed in connection with the promotion of high school levels, e.g. The publication in English and access to study material for high school, which has been different from ours for as long as the oldest humans remember. My concern, though, with high school financial contributions would be less likely if I saw that the basis was based on a real number of students, but not on plans for a number of students I don't see fit into reality. I see, for example. not that the number of prospective students in the East match river marches on Iceland's Habitat Office. They may be looking at different areas, but they're at least one of the things they don't have to do with the plan. In recent years, it has been observed that in many places there has been a great difference between the actual number of students and the estimated number of funds that have been based on. It also tells itself that it depends on the student group that enters school how fast students go through, for even though study time was shortened, it remains flexible. That's key. Thus, it is impossible to aim solely for a number of internal students; students must be taken into account at the start of high school. But we have exactly a brilliant system to do that, the new rating system A, B, C, D, which, of course, can predict how long it takes students to achieve the skills required in high school, although, of course, there is never quite 100% correlation between them. I also believe that at the same time as it is anticipated that students will reduce their high school years, it is very important to support the various activities of my schools they have come to to provide a wide range of educational opportunities, such as. the school of education. Just to college. As indicated by the Committee's Committee 2, a smaller portion of the budget is estimated to increase from 44.6 billion in 2017 to over 44 billion in the programme period. The largest single project in the United States is the building, with a estimate of the cost of construction being 3.7 billion between 2017 and 2021. Iceland's university will pay 30%, but it's estimated that the state fund pays 70%. Thus, real - life growth may be expected to be about eight billion dollars, or $3.2 billion, over the course of the university. This shows the defect in the implementation of the programme, mixing management and investment costs. Before the last election, I participated in a meeting held at the University of Akureyri, where representatives of all classes promised to intend to increase their funds to the university to the average OECD states. But there seems to be something else now. There are other things that would have been worth coming in. I would have liked to have an opportunity to give a second talk on the financial program, but I guess that won't be because I don't have time for an assembly right now. But the planned change in cost taxes in tourism is surprising to me, especially in view of the economic and economic focus of the last terms led by the current highest level. Prime Minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. At that time, the emphasis was to conform to the application of tourism so that there would be a targeted effort to internalise the worth of the tax system a variety of services to tourists who had been withheld from a worthwhile supplementary tax, and to match a worthy extra tax so that all tourism services would be in the same step, the lower level. For this purpose, e.g. worth taxes on alcohol dropped, and retails raised instead. Now this harmony doesn't seem to matter much anymore. Is the efficiency of the system really no longer important? Are we going to build inconsistencies and inefficiency in the system again? All of this, too, is to be taken into account for a relatively small net effect, which I believe would be more reasonable to reach by other means, such as return charges, natural charges, and host tax. There are other factors that would be involved; the community, the context of the application plans, the introduction to new personal protection and the interaction of financial and rural society, one of the things that must come to a better standing for the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u120	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for her speech. It may be said that the eye is clearly seen in this context when a vice - council member who has not participated in this discussion from the beginning comes into the middle of the discussion and enters the discussion. It is very interesting to have her vision of these matters, of how obvious it is, even of those who come into the middle, of how lacking the plan is, as we have actually been talking about ever since the previous issue. I also found that it was very interesting. A senator entered his talk, and we may not have talked enough, i.e. The convergence from what has been decided on and on into what is being suggested here, and then the connection with the individual matters of Congress under discussion. I find this interesting to hear, that it's put in context. But, hey. A senator introduced inconsistencies and there mentioned the merit of a tax change. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether it could be, as shown on the first page of the Committee's Committee, that this financial plan indicates that new things did not have enough time to prepare and implement financial plans for the next few years, whether they simply could not get together in a financial plan of the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir counters. Yes, I think there are many indications that in all cases, the administrative part has not had time to talk down on the common conclusion. It is not really possible to read another from the majority of the branch committees and, in fact, many other committees that make a little out of their opinion and opinion. Among other things, it's about the value of tax increase. It will, in fact, be very interesting to see where people discuss the discussion with the final payment of this case, what will be presented there after all the discussion that has taken place, both from the greater part and from the smaller part, although, of course, one would have chosen to hear more from the greater part of it than it has been. Thank you. A senator, too, for coming in and agreeing with the agreement in terms of legalization and work to the Senate, as well as the government and local financial matters. If new financial legislation is to bring benefits to society for the future, I find it extremely important that the council is, whether it is dealing with financial matters or making other decisions, always trying to link this work together. I think it's the benefit of having money on the agenda for the entire council, or both in the spring and in the autumn council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u122	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is important that social institutions have something to live on, although, of course, they are expected to see political changes when a new government takes place. But this needs to be considered, the whole system has to roll forward, and the vision needs to be somebody. Hv. A senator's talk was quite a part of the inside, focusing on transportation and education. Perhaps that's all there is to consider. But I just want a vision. A member of health care and what has been discussed in this regard is that there is a lack of financial resources, and I would like a vision of the town council at that. As well as the proposal presented in the opinion of the greater part to establish control over the land hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, health matters are what all of us have really agreed to put first. But that is so that I have not put myself in detail into them. From the discussion and the opinions of the committee I have considered, I feel that capitalizing is not a problem. Of course, there is also the need to establish health priorities, as is often discussed, that health care is most important, so that it will be the first stop. And maybe because I talked a lot about transportation, it's a huge health problem in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before her speech was brilliant. I realize that the senator is in here as an assistant, and this is no small matter how extensive it is trying to go through. I thought it would be nice to hear her review of who should have the perspective, just to continue at work, especially on committees. For example, the member states of the country that are supposed to have a view of their communities and know whether equalitarians are being cared for or if tasks they think are needed to go to bed within the programme, etc. That's just what you're calling out for. The fact that so many people are in the discussion right now I like it. Since I first arrived at the council as a deputy of 2004 and began listening to a budget talk, it has always been so that a very small number of people are from a budget board and they're always wiped out of the hall, using probe, now there aren't very many people in this room. I hope that later when the next speaker goes to a chair, ore. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, when the companions of Óli Björn, the Kárason of Meriasin, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, are upset because they have complained that they will not be able to find room in opposition to the council. Anyway. I'd like to ask the senator about the division of the state and rural society because she only introduced it. [[Up front.]] What are some of the ways in which it will lead to our being reasonable for that purpose? Yes, both of us know that there is a great need to find a way out of it. Hv. A member of the General and Education Committee was in the last term, and he knows those matters very well. The result is that, according to police officials in both the South and the Northern countries, ten people will need to be reduced. It is also necessary to do the same for the politicians, to reduce, or to close. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What is the situation, since we are now in the same district, in its part, i.e. ... east? How does it matter? A senator's concern is specific?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. I'll start with the discussion about the division of state and rural society. I think it's really important that a good conversation is there. The little I've been able to examine, it seems to me that there's been a lack now. Hopefully, this will be corrected because it is important to all of us that we have an ongoing conversation. There are at least a few things that I've wondered about that would be of great importance to the communities, for example. that the host's fee, or what's been called, if I dropped the English, ◯city tax-; simply moved to rural society. I think it might result in a much more efficient collection where the surveillance would be in close proximity to the community, for example. ... withthenexts. It would bring more income and equality and efficiency. And, of course, local societies will be used to build up a transport service. Then I think there may be a lot of rural areas that can be shared, allowed to divide between rural society. This is especially true since tourism is still a temporary industry and only a part of a year's work. In that case, even all the revenues of tourism are going out of the countryside because of the lack of response from hotel workers or other tourism services in the rural community. The officers and the county must wait for a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have to say, I'm impressed that the host's fee, the tax or what we want to call it go to the countryside, whether the transfer would be that way, or that some money, the first X million or what it would be, would go to the countryside. We left greens have had ideas about paced maintenance fees. I'd like to ask the senator how she feels about it. I agree with the fact that the rural communities have a better perspective and more surveillance on this. Perhaps that would be the best way to cope. They might need to follow some signals about built - in structures or things if they had to go to them altogether. I also agree with people who come to summer jobs, and no tax comes from that kind of work, i.e. We need to find out where we can go so that the rural communities that provide all services for those employees and even have to build up can get something against them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u127	A respectable president. I appreciate that reaction. In fact, I feel that there is a need for a step-by-the-house tax change. I have even. Help teenagers collect in tents, where they are even paying for 1st. K. For the night, and it's not the same thing as where 50 of you are being paid. K. for the night. You would think it was in the same step. But as for the sheriffs and the politicians, as far as I know, it's very narrow, especially with the Eastern county office. I don't have quite the latest information, maybe just as old as I am. A senator has. But I have certainly been disappointed that no further assignment has been made to the county reformers to strengthen their foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for the speech. It was widespread, including through wood. Well, one of the infrastructures is an energy issue. I was trying to understand the energy issues in this program. This is quite extensive, and our goals are good. But here it is divided into a chain of value, energy supply, transport, distribution, sale and marketing, and interest. I made a decision this morning that the senator was in the council and talked about electrical activity, the transfer of electricity into the country. Now we have a frame plan for activation. This is a frame plan too. This is a long time of trouble. I was here during my last term several times in the back of a deputy, and electricity transport was being done. I'd like to ask the senator, " Where is the neck of the bottle in this chain, and what can I do about it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson's answer. The safety of electricity distribution is of utmost importance. As I entered this morning's work, it's really just the capital area that has adequate security. It has been this way for over 25 years that unexpected events in energy - consuming customers do not affect the system here. I think we have some things to do. One would be to consider whether the entire network could belong to one person, whether it was Landsnet or to another, so that we would not be sharing the electricity into the overall distribution and then to smaller parties. That's what I think would provide specific efficiency. In turn, there has been more security in the distribution of electricity. A stronger structure meant more natural use of the electricity that already exists in the country. That's just one thing. This isn't necessarily about new continuum transfunctioners. But the frame plan as good as any. A member of the council came along, of course, as an estimate of new initiatives and priorities. However, there are certain limits to the environmental assessment process and they allow the implementation of a line layer to be reviewed. The cost of work, however, is not at all. It is only necessary to clarify the work process so that more specific work can be started in this area. And of course, money is needed to build the system, but it's a different story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u130	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Basically, it's a crash of a transfer party, and maybe it's a way with lines like the neck of a bottle. I'd like to slide over to the travel service a little bit. Now I asked another senator earlier about a trip to a country that was scheduled to travel last spring, reminding me, by an international flight to Eglish status for auditioning. It was rejected because of expensive fuel and was not welcome enough for tourists. How could the government meet the development of tourism in this area? Can the senator tell me his point?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u131	A respectable president. I appreciate this conversation. In short, I feel that there is no better frame for conversation between those who are responsible for distributing electricity and those who use it for other purposes, and then, of course, just between general nature principles. How the government can cope with the international tourism: There are natural ways that I have found interesting, such as. to pay for flights to cross-land airports such as Akureyri and Eglels with a discount on landing charges or service fees. [[The president calls.]] There are various ways in which the discussion has been conducted. Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u132	Mr. President. I studied my first talk on the economic grounds of this financial programme and the uncertainty about them, the weakness of the income institutions used to support the combination, and what vision we in left green traditions in it, and particularly the review of the financial Council that I believe is something that is something that all of us believe to have. In view of some reason, members of the council should be concerned that we have gone into the river but have not been ready for that journey. We are actually in the middle of this program, almost certain of where to continue with this plan. Of course, there have been a number of interesting issues in this discussion, perhaps especially that there is a considerable disagreement, we can say in a group. Senators in the large part. It is enough to give a witness to the committee's opinion of more of the legal committee. However, I would like to make special use of this opportunity to discuss a number of budget workers who have disappointed me in this suggestion. First, it is high school expenses. I've entered the highest. The level of education and culture according to these expenditures and the explanation for why the change in high school donations was as high as any other financial programme agreed in August. and was to cover the 2017 and 2021 years and this financial program under which we are now going to extend from 2018How is it to be covered? There is a marked difference, as shown in my case. Consider, for example, the year 2021. In the last approved financial program, it was expected that 31.288 billion will be considered in this issue. a small amount, or 29.841 billion a.m. V.E.G. The minister replied that government spending had increased so much in the last budget that he was now participating in agreeing with other members of the council. These plans would have been eliminated completely. I don't think it's going to pass. Nor do I think that this program, as it is presented, describes an interest in education, whether in the field of high school or in the university. There's a chance that the country's at the highest. The Minister of Education, Illugi Gunnarsson, made it clear here at the council, when he was criticized for setting down a high school course or study for three years, and he reasoned on this change and so did his decision. by means of the money saved by this decision, they would be used to advance high school levels so that financial contributions per student would be comparable to what happens in Denmark and Sweden. We have been well from the North countries in donations for high school. I know that schools throughout the country listened to those words. a minister who even felt that they could be reasoned with his decision to shorten the school. As I say, I disagreed completely with that decision, yet I respected the evidence he made. And they clearly appeared in the last financial program. Here we have a financial program where that thought has gone out of control. So we are far from gaining financial support for each student as he does in the North countries. We are not going to show ambition in high school activities, where my opinion and hopefully more in this room are that education is a key factor. We remember to see radical changes in work markets and society as a result of technological changes around us, and experts tell us that these changes may be considerably faster than we have seen before. There are tremendous challenges ahead, both of which have changed their way of life but also of things that require changes in society. I can mention changes in the environment and many other aspects of it. The response of the greater part at the General Assembly is cutting high school donations. Don't take better when we go to college. Of course, it caught attention when it was the highest. To improve quality and meet international comparisons, a minister specifically recommended a presentation on the plan that additional funds would be spent at the university level. Then, on the day, the increase to the university is mainly a building of Icelandic lectures, a house we have been discussing here in the Assembly Hall. We have received reports from the representatives of every class that this house needs to be completed. It was stopped in the middle of deep water after it was started, so the cost of building it is likely to be considerably greater now than if it had just been completed at its time, 2013. All right. I'm glad we built this house. It is noteworthy, however, that the increase in university levels is all in donations to this house where the contribution of the University of Iceland is even calculated as a government special contribution, but there are, of course, market owners like the one here and hopefully other members of Congress who pay it a contribution rather than the common government funds. As we examine the increase and take U.S. classes outside the box, the increase to the college level will be no more in 2018 and 2.1% in 2019. Then I find it appropriate to review the approved policy of the Scientific and Technical Council. Who's sitting at the Scientific and Technical Council? Are there just some scientists in town? Someone might think so. No, most of the government's ministers are. At one time, the prime minister was the president of the Scientific and Technical Council. In fact, the current government has decided to change it and to transfer the president of the Scientific and Technical Council to the Ministry of Education. I don't know if it's part of the message that this seminar party was set aside. But the Scientific and Technical Council that served under the leadership of the highest level. The prime minister of the last government had approved a policy previously approved at the General Assembly when we agreed to set up the 2011 University of Iceland, which we made in the midst of a crisis but all supported. Part of the report with the suggestion that we should aim to contribute to each college student should go up to the average OECD 2016 and the Northern 2020 average. And why are we doing this? We are doing this so that Icelandic society will be equipped to meet the challenges ahead, so that college students will receive instruction that is the best in the world and to live up to basic research, which, of course, is fundamental to the future in this society. It is true that a certain effort was made to promote a competitive fund. Actually, it was first done in 2012, it was then pulled back 2013, but then the government decided to go back to 2014. It raises questions why humans cannot only unite in good business, why it must always be a new government that does so. And it was good. But we must not forget that the university foundation is also a key factor. Sadly, we do not live up to it with this plan. Unfortunately, I have only one and a half minutes left and yet I intended to talk about much more than I intend to use my last minute in discussing only the matter of disability. I wondered, " Is the greater part of the Council considered this financial program acceptable in view of the figures available from the National Institute of Economic Institutes for Economics of the United States of Iceland to have been negative to the level of evaporation since 2015 and the increase was 1%? ' Based on the review of Iceland's Institute for Financial Plans, contributions designed for this seminary will be sufficient to achieve a monthly level of disability up to 288 up to 288 levels. K. in the year 2022. We're headed for a minimum market wage of 300 yards. K. Next year, 2018. Of course, this is totally unacceptable, Mr. President, and cannot be the policy of this government. I just can't believe that it is the policy of this government to intend to keep those who, surely, have not chosen their lot to be on disability, in a poverty trap. It's nothing but a check. And I'm going to give this plan a lot of anxiety, so that these groups' rewards should actually be kept down in this way. It just can't be anyone's political will in here. I refuse to believe that. Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm not able to discuss the issues of a Museum of Nature that disappeared from the program despite approval of the Generalis unanimously that its building should appear in a financial program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I may have to put myself back on the rosary to discuss that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the discussion on academic matters. Clearly, we are going to do something in this world, and we must be prepared for the tremendous changes that are taking place. We know that after 20 to 30 years, most of the jobs our children are doing and those who are born in the years may not be available in the job market. Therefore, educational systems must be prepared for the future and the people of the land. Hence, attention is given to what passes by a dog. A senator appeared in the financial program, i.e. The change that took place between financial plans last year and 1.4 billion to high school. I notice that in the majority of the legal committees, they agree with Article 13 that this need to be revised. Yet, they do not make any changes. Suggest that the proposal be passed on as well. How does the Minister of Education feel that this might have been in high school over the next five years, that these funds are taken out when we are in the process of cutting down from four years to three, which I as the former prime minister was agreed to? I was, in fact, an earlier skeptic when this was done. But the reason is that this results in an enormous amount of national gain, that people get through study more quickly. If we compare ourselves with other countries, there is evidence that we can do just as well. But taking that money out from year to year, has the senator seen the analysis that accounts for how this can be done? [[The president calls.]] How does a former minister of education feel this could have an impact on school?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u134	President. Thank you. A senator resists. He agrees with me, and we agree that education is the key to social change. Education is the key to the independence of this nation. We are here with Jón Sigurðsson, watching over us and watching over us. It's not a coincidence that the University of Iceland was founded on the anniversary of Jón the son of Sigurðsson. It is because in his writings, he wrote that there were aspects of independence that would be vital for the nation's independence. One of them would be education. This is a thought - provoking point for why. The members of the majority of the parts here are looking up at Air Iceland Connecticut and Amazing Home Show and what it's called, that we're not even up to taping students into grammar at the university because there's no money. But we're not gonna worry about it, just sitting here watching our language float around and not doing anything. Because that's what it is. The members of the greater part are doing so if they intend to agree to this strategy. They're going to sit by and do nothing. I predict that judgment in history will not be too kind to people who will not respond to the situation that is in exactly the right place today. For high school we're already seeing - we haven't seen any analysis, of course not, because there are no analyses published by this program, it's now the whole thing, it's just set out, and then we're getting a hard report from independent professionals who are still assigned by the greater parts, and they all say: "Here's all the diagnosis, it's totally upset, and it's not consistent with the baseline law on public finance; and everyone's acting like it's just a very small learning process. But the learning process is that this plan gets a function. However, we have begun to see the consequences of this plan. Education Ministers starting to unite schools without any analysis. We've discovered some cuts. The General and Education Committee that this provision has not been fully analysed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's explanation. Also to mention the technology of speech and the lack of ambition that we have had. That was so, however, in the form of a suggestion. A senator mentioned, such a birthday present to the nation approved by the council here unconventionally, was a Museum of Nature, but it was also discussed in grammatical language. Me and our former minister of education kept going about putting something in there, for there is, of course, a key factor that we don't lose the English fight. I've been really worried about this in the last few years. The film is naturally the one we are seeing today when an old Icelandic company, which continues to run in Iceland, suddenly divides its name and uses some English name so that the tourists do not go lost in the jungle to find their way to airplanes. [[Up front.]] Actually, I thought it was... tourists, huh? Senator, thank you for the tip. This is exactly the danger. We are increasingly taking up English or foreign languages. But as for the Scientific and Technical Council, it is true that in 2013 when the government of last term arrived, we had to cut down a little bit. In our opinion, there were a few things we could do with money. However, as early as 2014, the ideas were good and even more successful, we put in a very ambitious structure in our research fund. I'm impressed when we see this financial plan that there's no plan. It's a slight raise, it's not a big one, even a part of the money being examined. And, of course, it's the form of what you say, that Prime Minister who has been leading the Scientific and Technical Council before it is no longer, then it's really just that you admit: Yes, we're going to be ambitious in education and research, and it's the members of the board of directors who are going to vote with a proposal that, though, they say, criticize the day out and the day in but are afraid to make changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u136	Mr. President. Yeah. It is clear that educational and cultural matters do not ride a fat horse from this program. I'm quite aware that this is where it comes from. Ministers up and say: We had to set health priorities. But we can totally reverse this statement, saying: "We were just not ready to make the money needed to live up to a decent educational system. You see, it does not always mean to point out health issues and do nothing in looking to the future and moving ahead. Whether it is in the English language or in the field of teaching. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir This is where Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson says. I agree completely with him. I don't think it's a good message that the prime minister tells about the Scientific and Technical Council because the thought behind it at the time when the arrangement was set up was that policies in education, science, and innovation should take place throughout the entire government. That would be why the prime minister would lead them in a legal way, in order to increase his political weight as a result of such plans for the future. I say for myself that this change, if we really read something in it, will bring this party into the private of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which it is not, and we know that we have less political weight, no matter what the fine individuals doing these offices, than the office of Prime Minister. So, of course, it's a message, but it's not a good message. It's not a good message for those who want Iceland to build up around smart, that we're not gonna be any patient in the technological revolution ahead, but the bacteria in the technological revolution, that we're not going to sit around and watch opportunities run by, but that's what we're gonna create. This is done only by investment, and there is nothing to say. That's for members of Congress. They must know that when we recommend prosperity, it goes directly with contributions for research, science, and education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u137	Mr. President. Now there have been some discussions about this financial program, and it is quite safe to say that it does not meet much of our expectations for it. I participated in dealing with the situation on the economic and business committee, and there was the decision to take the Polish in the hill to focus just on the income side of the plan at the expense of further analysis on the economic grounds of the programme and the like. Various members of the committee were interested in this aspect of affairs. It was found during the review, both with members of the committee and also with some of the visitors who came, that this was a significant dissatisfaction of both material aspects, but also in general. It was one special quote that I found very interesting. Various beauty measures were made in the program regarding the position of public funds that I found rather interesting. The plan is only incomplete in this respect, in particular in terms of the predictions of the models used, high premiums, a lack of transparency, unconventional methodology, but also in the material involved in the spending ceilings, the development of the state's debt, a lack of internal structures, which, of course, will be very costly later. And a controversial change in the tax environment is to be made. I'm not going over all of this, but there's not enough time. I seem to have just over 18 minutes, but I could probably talk about this all day. But I'm going to go over the economic foundation of the programme because it's very dangerous. First, let us do so on page 19. 54 in this fine, no not a fine, bad book, says of a plagiarism, with the permission of a president: The changes in the Icelandic kroner score in the schedule are not predicted but are expected to remain unchanged over the period. True, it can be difficult to anticipate certain anomalies, but it is clear that this would have been a better option for us to assume that some flutter would remain and that the forecasting value would be reduced according to the time period. If we just look at the situation, but I wrote the review to the committee, it had been 17.31% in the past 12 months. This has increased since then. Even if we were to expect it to be less fluttering, such as. Because of some events that would have occurred, it is clear that we need some sort of diagnosis, and it must be followed. Of course, a flutter will go on. The crown has always been a constant flutter, and such a flutter affects GDP. This will change our expectations of debt, income spending, and the ability of the plan to meet financial policies. Similarly, if economic growth falls below expectations, if inflation exceeds expectations, if these activities increase more than expected - each of these factors calls for independent risk assessment and forward imaging analysis, because all of these factors pose a threat to economic policy targets. The economic leaders of the budget are expected to remain historically low inflation. But the very reason for this is, in fact, extremely vague, especially in view of the level of expansion that we now watch. Presumptuous increases are expected to be lower than inflation during the latter part of the forecast period, which actually involves a decrease in the level of costs and intensification of pay. There's a lot of things going on down there, and these systems all conflict and influence the outcomes of a government operation strategy. Then there are some things that are completely absurd. On page 18. 8 of the plan says, with President's permission: If the forecast continues, the period will be one of the longest consecutive economics of Iceland's history. This nonsense is over and over again, and it's part of the budget, but it's just bullshit. It is true that this will be one of the longest consecutive economic growths, but if we examine all of the long economic growth, we will find that this period would be a fourth rate of six economys, which would last more than one year if it lasted throughout the five years of the program. In addition, we have a fee that we did not go over to the committee because it was mainly on the scope of the legal committee to do so. However, there is a high risk which involves the reduction of the total budget from 29% of GDP to 28.4% of GDP, which is extremely small, but when taken together, there is room up to 0.1% of GDP, which is about 3 billion per year at this time. This means that inflation beyond the increase could simply create the position that the basis for financial policy failure and thus the basis for the financial agenda. In addition, it has been said that if there is a deviation of more than 5% of the gross domestic product produced by donors in either direction, it would be enough to make financial policy just at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Thus, whatever the way you look at it, there is an extremely fragile roof. Then you can talk about the tax environment. That has been extremely critical. In particular, two changes in worth taxation are expected along with other factors. The problem with this is that it seems that it is going to cause significant damage to tourism. Even if you could accept that change, there has been no analysis of how it would affect elsewhere but that whole country, and even that diagnosis is extremely small. It must be done in a national analysis to make sure that we have an overview of how these things are going to affect people. We already know that. A post-hoc analysis from the Research site of the store shows that only in the past five months has actually been a failure in credit card use for each traveler for the first time in a long time. In addition, the number of nights for each tourist has been shown to decrease. It was 3.83 nights in person 2016 compared to 4.41 to 4.55 nights per person in 2011-2015. This is an almost overnight reduction on average for every tourist. It shows that we're in a position where the prices push people out of here, people don't want to hang out anymore because they're just too expensive for them. There's a lot of stuff that plays in there, it's the strength of the crown and inflation, and all of that, as growing power of money, it affects it a certain way. If we start to crash the merit tax, which, in other cases, I would agree, we may be in danger of causing a lot of damage that will take years to come. The Ministry of Economics estimates that the number of tourists and the rise in the cost of tourists is only about 1◯2%, but no national analysis has been performed. And the predictions of these numbers have not been established in any way. It's as if they've just chosen these numbers at random because - I think it's right when people keep some of these numbers so small that they're at least trying to prove their calculations, show how they get to this conclusion. In addition, many have noted that all such worthwhile tax changes need to be done well in order to be dealt with in financial terms, especially when good products are being sold far ahead of time. Also, there are many other things to talk about. I find it interesting in the context of the interaction between the present community housing problems, in part, because of increased tourism, but also in part because we haven't built enough housing. The problem is, however, that the current housing problem is a major demand for housing, housing, and so forth. It's gonna get smaller if we start building. So it is not possible to say whether it would eventually be smaller or greater because of it. But if there's a big problem here, I understand, there's a total total of 9,000,11,000 missing apartments in the community. At least we have a good feeling about it, and it might be seen that it would strike the spell in any way, and then, of course, we should go to these types of projects. Actions related to housing support in financial programmes are not even costly. They somehow go from maintaining the present system and building 1,800 apartments is just a drop in the ocean to the cumulative need in the community. If we look at the experiences of the past few years, since the camp loan fund has sold out over a thousand in a camp in a camp in the course of 2015,2016 instead of putting them out into a public market, things seem to be very difficult. You find it hard to believe that in this financial program, you are actually dealing with the existing housing problem. Somehow it is just assumed that the invisible hand will come and tie it in some way. I don't know exactly what it should be, but I think I know that the invisible hand isn't a construction engineer. Lack of convincing feedback programmes due to lack of housing reduces the credibility of this financial programme. Since then, rural society has come and described considerable dissatisfaction with the Ministry of finance simply because there was no consultation. That is very bad, especially where there is a agreement between state and rural society in developing financial plans. It's in 1 1. it's a government law. There is no way for financial programs to be developed without taking steps. If not, it's against the law. I don't think we in general should agree to that here. In fact, the lack of financial data, which is also illegal, is to be broken down on a number of factors that are not there. Now that we're in this rabbit hole, there are a very large number of financial initiatives in which it is stated what action to take and how to measure it. Sometimes the measurements are not suggested, but they are usually not, so there is no way to determine if the project has actually been handled. When possible, there is no later step. It's a natural thing because there are a lot of chapters, but there doesn't seem to be any internal harmony between the chapters of the budget. This makes it impossible for us to appreciate it. So I come back to my rural society then a financial plan is to reduce the survival of rural society in 2017●2018, but better production in 2020,2022. Of course, there was no consultation with the rural communities on that diagnosis, and there is no explanation of the anomaly, so we just have to believe it or not - which I intend to allow me to do. In chapter 5 of this plan, we are discussing the financial affairs of our rural society, but there has been no contact with anyone. It's amazing. For many years, rural society has had to put aside all infrastructure because they have no money to care for it. With regard to financial programmes, the infrastructure will continue to be postponed, but in many areas it has become a real need. In addition, negative yield of rural society can be expected at 8 billion dollars. and with a government that has set the goal of reaching the total debt of rural society so that we have a whole state business of less than 30% of GDP in debt. I don't understand how it's going to work out. You could talk about it like a lot of other things all day. Mr. President. All of this can be seen, and I could, as it were, pick a lot more, that financial plans are completely inadequate. Well, methodically, she's below all the caves. She wouldn't get a good score anywhere. It is not possible to say that the analysis work has been carried out in a reliable way, even in many cases over the heads. Many key information just doesn't exist. The whole tablets are empty in this plate. There are no measured goals, there are a considerable number of errors. There is much to learn from this type of work. One reason is that it needs to be reused. The government has the opportunity to do so now because she may decide to withdraw the proposal. In this case, it would be reasonable and natural, and it could be put back in the fall. In that case, the tablets may have been filled, fixed the methodology, developed clearer data, prevented the legal violations that are moving in here and have been consulted by the rural communities. The data to be published would be published and even done in electronic form so that we could enjoy them. Well, then I think the plan would be a little easy on the council. We're not necessarily against everything here. There's some good things here. It's mostly cutbacks. There are big questions about health care. There are big questions about all kinds of factors. But it might be possible to fix it. We should try to work together here at the council to fix these things, not do the same things as a financial committee did, to return a majority - wing party that is complained and complained about all sorts of faults, but no change suggested because it would not please the manager. It would be desirable for a financial agenda to be retracted. If it cannot be withdrawn, we should join together at the council to bring it down because it does not fulfill law, it involves a violation of law. There's not enough data. The methodology is wrong. That's lame. Some have stood here and reasoned that this will do for now and say that we'll do better next year, that all these defects can be fixed only in the next year. It's a little like deciding not to fix a roof until the next winter, so it's just raining on us for a year? I don't think that's gonna work. The house leaks, Mr. President, and we must stop the leak. I don't know what to say because we've been talking here about it quite accurately. It's been done well. I am so pleased with all the reviews written on the committees and how professionally this work was accomplished. Many good things have come out of this process. But when we build on pathetic grounds that aren't professional and no attempt is made to fix it, and we somehow continue to apply ourselves to the nonsense over and over again, people have to be ready to say, " Okay, this isn't good enough. Let's take it back, let's do something better, let's try to make it work. If people don't exist, I don't know exactly why we're here, because the role of the council is to improve the law, to correct the motion, to improve things so that we can get a better conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He made a subject for the economic and economic aspects of the programme. Hv. A senator referred to the account of the financial council. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's comments are very detailed. A very large question mark is given on the lack of analyses that mark the whole plan, but also on the factors involved. A senator pointed to us as living in one prophetic model. There is a great need for us to reevaluate it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whose vision is long-term is that we have had in this room the proposal for an institution of a national economy. We have an approved proposal for the development of long-term national programmes. We have a financial body that may be what we should be building on for a long time if we truly live in it. It is worth considering that if the Council of Financial Affairs is to be one of two, we are to support the government's economy, where the money policy is on one side and the financial policy on the other side, we have a money policy that supports the servants of the Federal Bank and we have quite bound to build on their own intelligence and work. Then we have a financial body that really doesn't have anything to do with it. Since similar laws have been introduced, financial advice is of greater importance. I want to ask you why. A senator whose vision is. Do we need an independent national interest system? Do we need a special unit here at the General Assembly in order to look longer? The General Economics Department? Or is the financial body to be the person who takes up such national forecasts over time so that we can gain greater variety? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u139	Mr. President. Yes, these are quite good questions. You might start by describing just the analysis. It is true that the financial Council said that there is a problem that we should base all the analysis of the economy on a single model, i.e. The QMM model developed by the Navy. A financial body pointed out that the overall risk was due to the support of all analysts on the same model. Now I've been playing with it for a little while at night making a program that interprets this QMM model so we can at least try to figure out if we can't do anything better with it. There may be another subject and another speech. However, the QMM model has a very limited forecasting value and is unfortunate to predict the impact of tax change, changes in government spending, and other factors involved in financial gains because it is primarily an analysis of the economy and not of the government. But then I'll answer a question. It is good for a senator to see that financial counsel has been implemented. They need to be careful that they have a measure of independence in their work. But we need to rebuild a national economy or strengthen the Haguen so that they can do this, not just collect profits, but also perform predictions and identify the situation. If we don't have an independent member who can perform this role, we're going to be able to rely a lot on the intelligence departments of the banks like we did here before the collapse, but it didn't end so well. A national or local agency is a key element in this matter, and it could even go further. I am very interested that we try to make more extensive predictions for the future, not just to one or two years of age, but to ten years of age. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Then comes another question that I would like to ask. A senator about. He also discussed the lack of analysis surrounding the suggestion to transfer travel services from lower levels of the valuable tax system to the top level. We are aware that this proposal surprised many who work in the tourism service because each group had been persistent about it before the election, and in reality only one category at the General Assembly, which had a direct bearing on its policy, which was the Conspiracy. I can't remember better than at least Two of the three members of the board were completely in violation of the pre-election situation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in his vision. I know there's a pack down there. A senator has stressed the importance of making extensive consultations. But have the Piranians developed a policy on how it would be most reasonable to tax the tourism? Do the Pirates just think it's going up to the top level of the merit tax? Do the Piras worry about the competitiveness of the Icelandic tourism service in neighboring countries, where these are often in lower steps, except in Denmark, which has been named here by the spokesmans of the greater part? If not, what else, then, would the Piratars form a picture when it comes to their returns and so forth? This industry is our largest export work, but it is, of course, dependent on laws other than our traditional export work branches, which are primarily sales of national services, which, of course, have had a radical impact on the service balance. But what is a vision? Is this the case of a senator and his?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u141	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that we have been very positive in our ideas about return expenses. We've even wanted to reduce the reimbursement of a ◯tax free, which could save us up to 1 billion a year. We have one of the highest reimbursements rates due to the Europeans, I think it's 15% now, and could even decrease it by half, to 7%, without us being too much under average. But this worth tax change--I can't remember at the moment exactly what is in our policy list about it. The question surprised me, and I could not look it up. I personally have the vision that it might be beneficial, but any changes like this must be based on a good analysis. I have a dig in my review of this case which shows how changes have taken place in the EEA's subsidiary in recent years. This shows that there has been a large increase in production prices in some places, but this has been replaced or reduced elsewhere. That, along with all the experience from Denmark and elsewhere, gives me reason to think that it may not be too wise to do so at this point, even though you are generally in favor of the change. Maybe one day you can look at it. I agree that exports are just another law, but at least, as the situation is today, I don't think it's a risk to raise money taxes in travel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for an interesting talk, and he understands very well that he put some emphasis in his talk on the economic grounds of being on that committee. Hv. A senator came naturally, linked with it, into the critical tactics, i.e. The format of this budget. It may be said that the debate at the General Assembly was a matter of how the plan is set up and criticism of it. I agree with those who have talked about this process being far from acceptable. On the other hand, we have been discussing the political content in the program, but it will, of course, be a little difficult when the process is as bad as it really is to witness, and it is as difficult to get numbers and information, since it was not published with the original Senate resolution, but it was something that we had to call in particular. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament, because his company has been one of those who have spoken for better and more open tactics at the General, what his vision is about, since the International Council has not been a great trust and trust in organizations, whether or not. A senator would agree with me on that. Or else to get his opinion on the effect that it has so bad, I'm going to say, a plan is set out. What effect does it have on the social talk, if we simply let the politicians lie between parts of this first answer, but rather come to the form? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u143	Mr. President. Maybe it's a good thing I answer this with a certain story, and it's a recent story. You see, this is how it is on page 18. In the 54th budget, if I do not remember less, it is said that there is a 9% increase in pay costs over the period. In fact, in the same chapter, the figures in the budget are said to be in real value, present, or walking out of the gangs of 2017, and then they'll just be fixed. From that point on, a 8.8% rise in hospital service would mean an 8.8% increase, to a 9% increase in pay costs, is an increase of 0.2%. It was only natural to give this to us because this is what it says. It became evident that somewhere in between, i.e. It shows that this is just part of the present respect taken into account. So this 9 - year - old figure, shown in this blurred way, makes it possible for us to be accidentally wrong for days. It wasn't corrected until the day before yesterday. This is just one example of how unbelievably bad things go when data are badly developed and badly processed. In fact, we can thank you for not becoming more confused of this sort, since it is actually so widespread that you can't believe anything that says it because it always has to be done by hand from the beginning to understand what it says. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u144	V.E.G. President. I think this alone is a concern for us, i.e. A general body as an institution, getting data like this to work with. I'm sorry, but I think it's a sentence above the highest level. The government also didn't think about it better. To be doing this for the first time and to the government recently accepted, I don't think it's sufficient excuse for not setting things up better, because it was found that there were some better numbers in the plots that we could get access to when they were called after them, though I would have liked to see even more and better numbers. I sure hope it's the first and only time we see such a well-proved financial plan. But I'd like to do this later. I'd like to come up with the political content. Yes, we are here to deal with a different view of how we want to run the community and not just talk about shapes, although the form helps us to deal with the political vision. I'd like to hear what you're thinking. A senator, for example, came into his speech only by means of capitalization in various infrastructures. What is his view that the plan will assume that the development of the combination will be summed up and that it will be at the end of the period that will take place on the average of the last 25 years? How does it rhyme with the image we already have of the money we make? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u145	Mr. President. To only complete the previous query. This is also important when we talk about a five - year government budget and the economic situation of the nation, we have a good discussion in the community. Because it's a five-year plan. This isn't some joke. This is incredibly important. The social debate over this financial program has been extremely small. Very few people are interested in this because it's complicated and it's poor, except that most people don't know what financial and financial policies are and why they're different from financial laws. We must be able to do Communism, excuse the sleigh, Mr. President, or get these messages out of the community. About this cut. Now the management have been telling us so much about how much more money this is coming in. This addition is entirely due to the fact that economic growth will continue and will continue to take place on a heavenly flight to the future. The fact is, we have absolutely no basis for believing that, other than the fact that humans may be rather hopeful in the Ministry of finance. It makes me think that we have to look at this from what kind of GDP it is. There we are, like a croissant. One senator mentioned, talking about a decline in the era, which is indeed a return to the time before we had a good road system to the extent that it is good and good health to the extent that it is good and good education to the extent that it is good. We're going back to the time when we were crawling out of our last farts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u146	A respectable president. Here, in my second speech on this matter, I want to get a little more involved with the financial agenda, even though I may not intend to get attached to certain numbers. I'm even going to think about the big lines in this, because I have to say, just as it is, when I saw a government budget, I got really disappointed. So maybe it shouldn't have been for having listened to the reason. Administrators are talking after the election. Yet, I was disappointed. Only on the job. I'd like to step down to the government's treaty, the Declaration of Independence, the Revolution, and the Future. It certainly speaks of a confidential talk in public financial matters. In the past, there's a lot to be done on this financial agenda already. But it says: It is essential that... we develop false god and transparent practice in public policy and administration. And a little lower: ▪ When it comes to legalization, care must be taken to ensure that representatives of different viewpoints have more time to promote their views. And again, with president's permission: The government will carry out all its tasks in honor of good government and transparent administration. How has the government been able to fulfill these promises? Governments gave? How long has it been? Four months? But as a little fan of linear times, I must mention that time with specific notice. At least this was January. This first major test of these promises, when it comes, can be said simply by the government. We received this matter here for discussion. The government's situation had to take out everything close to being a professional discussion of the matter; this was because the government required it. The original opinions of the executives on how to handle this document were not going to work out the procedure that then became reality. Sadly, the government had no greater strength to demand more and better and more disciplined action. Of course, it would be best if the government had simply more things and had no need to discuss this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But it's sent into professional committees and professional committees have time to call in guests and win reviews, but at every level of what I've listed here, there's something I needed to talk about. It took oppressors to open their eyes to see that perhaps it was fair and fair to show false tactics and transparency, as the government covenant sounded a great deal of it. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee has developed, as I suppose, in the main, all other committees, if not all, to ask for a translation of this document in the important and important area of separation and investment. We asked how the next five years' money could be measured without knowing exactly what to do and how to make investments. Some of this had taken place from the highest. The Department of Transport, but not sufficiently in my opinion. There was nothing like that from the Environment Ministry. From within the committees, I have learned this: It is a lucky and disappointing how the Ministry responded to this appeal and, of course, a wish that should be the basis for the government to be shameless in the face of this document. Because otherwise it's just a trash, just some scrambled number that can be used for political purposes, to lie to the nation's being able to increase money to the various categories and talk as if it's all in the business. Simply put, a person is required to live up to his course. You're supposed to tell the truth and talk clearly. You are not supposed to use every nook and tickle to get away from what is actually being tried. By the time the bar shows up, some executives start running away from signs. Suddenly, the most radical motion of the document - perhaps except for the charge roof that could be given a whole talk about and that has been done - i.e. to increase the volume of a travel service, some sort of ground ground for a special proposal and need to be done in the law and not have to be discussed with this financial program. Wait, don't you all build the income gate and the revenue of this bill on this proposal? More of it. The financier simply gives comments on this bill, which is then on all the world's alerts about what is wrong, and it says that it is considered that it is wrong to raise the sink at the end of the year. Wait, as suggested by the increase to 9 billion next year. There's not really a stone on this one. And that may not be strange. Both men had to hurry as they possibly could to get this suggestion out in order to honor all the formalities of the calendar, which proved to be the highest. Secretary of the budget is more important than working properly. And then there's the other thing: This is the beauty of things. Therefore, this document is thrown out and interpreted, and south, depending on which management members are obeying; either this is the largest and most important case of the government, which will lay the lines for the next five years, or just a ground for a review of the conversation that can be reviewed once a year. Misplay is a word that comes to mind when looking at this document. Because who's the real politics in this? That's what I'd like to talk to you about. We can talk back and forth, and in this room, there are people who are much better for it than I am. I'd like to discuss the politics behind this. It has been observed in this public address that the combination as part of GDP should be reduced. Is it because my drinking was getting too fat? Had it gone too much to spend on the combination, or what? Finally, the grand opportunity to cut down there, not let her grow too much? No, it wasn't. Is this in harmony with what all the government groups promised or suggested would be examined? To increase, for example, the proportion of GDP to the health of the country in the light of the signature? Is that why? No, it's simply because people who believe that the combination should not be as much of the community as it is today, let alone grow. Unfortunately, after the incision of the past few years, everyone admits that there is a great and enormous need for infrastructure. In some way, real places are hidden. It is so deep in numbers that many requests are often needed to get an explanation of them; and it is a lucky mistake whether they are finally available. During those discussions, I listened to one talk after another. Holy shit. A senator on his feet does not quite understand the real situation. Not because they lacked understanding but because the situation is so vague. I listened to a representative of each institution coming into a meeting. Environmental and Transport Committees that didn't know how the next year would be. Here's the right- right-hand card, which is about to cut the share of the co-administration into our own system. [[The president calls.]] People are supposed to have character in them to come and say it, stand by that ideologies, just as awful as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppér Prope for a very good speech. I hear we agree with each other on a number of aspects of this financial agenda. Hv. A senator mentioned comments and comments to a greater proportion of the legal committee. They were pretty detailed. I now agreed with most of them, but it's also a matter of common sense, not always politics. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What explanation does he feel is that a greater proportion of the legal committee did not make adjustments to the synonym, according to these comments? That would be interesting to hear. I'm going to get a few points in, it's such a short time, one minute. And also with regard to the presentation he handled well, which is mixed with business expenses and investments. What is the purpose of this, and why was it not otherwise done?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u148	A respectable president. I can't help but wonder what the reason is for this, that I think it's strange that it's done. More of the budget committees, for the comments are detailed, some are helpful, others are not. But then it is suggested that the plow be only accepted. I don't know why. Is it simply a matter of government cooperation that it must be approved this way, or the government will leave the government? I don't know. I can only guess what's going on in the world of people's minds that produce such a release. In view of these overall business ventures and investments, the answer is simple in my mind: It is presented to deceive, to be called on for an increase in donations when it is not a matter of human interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u149	A respectable president. That's exactly the way it looked to me. This is a program where much of the increased productions both for education and for health care go into concrete, not people. That's critical. It's amazing to make it that way. There was good time to do this better than at some point decide to make it that way. There's some point to that. Besides, I'd like to hear a thought. A member of the council at the following: What about the transport issues, which were a matter of pre-election among all categories? There, people were striving to make promises to improve the interior and, in particular, the transport sector. The promises were, in effect, over the health issues that had been a little loud ahead. But what does the government do? It's making things easier on transportation. I'd like to hear thoughts later. Senator on this. Why don't they have a plan? Now we're going over the government budget for the next five years, and there's no plan. [[The president calls.]] It's just crazy. How do people feel about them in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the objection and for accessing the transportation issues I used to address in my speech. In my first talk, I studied them a little better, and I have discussed them before. It is indistinguishable that the contribution to transport has been far too small for some time. It has been explained for very simple reasons. There was an economic collapse, and there was no money. The road has spoken of the need for maintenance up to 10 billion a year. A secretary of the transport program is just like a library where he can choose what he wants out of it. I think the real reason is in what you hear in the highest. Special transport ministers, i.e. to get the private funds more in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u151	Which is not being attended.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u152	[[The president calls.]] - Of course not present. After all, it matters extremely little to him, for he intends to finance his seminary with his private treasures and by setting up toll gates.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u153	A respectable president. I think we can all agree that it's a good thing to put your lines in, plan long-term. I think we can agree that we support the ideologies behind government laws. But it's a question of what is involved in this, which politics is involved in this financial program - which is a case plan. Is it a carpeting device to get ahead in the system and solve things on their terms? What does it say? paritaprevir Is that true of Kolbeinn Proppé Óttarsson Prope?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good answer, and to remind you of this, because that's exactly what I think this financial plan is. I don't think any government can be so stupid that it's planning to go through an entire terms with no more expenditure than those found in this financial program for litigation that is undisputed to require more expenses. There's only one way to go, and that's the private amount. The way it's going to come in, the way it's going to come in. At the very least, it is clear that there will be fierce opposition within the walls of this house. And again: If that is the case, people should simply have the strength to speak that way right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u155	A respectable president. I have been in a position to submit to the law, as if it had been taken care of over the years. It should have been a joy to receive these official funds and to have a vision for a long time. But now it is true that the rulers of public service are exactly no closer. They do not know where the weather is - or the price - when financial programs are so vague. Do we not agree that the target of launch has been passed by by the development of a financial program in the present form?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u156	A respectable president. Yeah, I totally agree. I think it's a responsibility to present such a vague document as it really is here. I've heard visitors who haven't. The environment and transport committee I'm in and out of. Not seeing what's being done makes people very upset. Nobody knows what the next year will be like. Offering a document that adds to the uncertainty, and not just adds to it, but makes it, is a major responsibility. And I think that's what. A government would be closer to practicing the conversational politics that the party is running for elections. We listened to the highest. Today's espionage minister makes surveys about Iceland's desire for public health systems in order to be the policy of the government to have all the basics of health care systems on public property. This is simply not what this financial program proclaims.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'm thinking when you're sitting there, we got the case into a budget about seven weeks ago or so. Now we're on the third day of a discussion, aren't we? It's like it's all an empty bullshit you're working for. We have worked well with the smaller section of the budget on the improved procedure that is being tried to initiate. Then there is a suggestion that businesses, stock costs, and other factors have been divided, but it is a tablet on top of it; major financial projects, stock costs. There are some improvements and improvements. Is it all so negative, as one wants to be? The process has brought much enlightenment, and there is a considerable amount of information. Of course, much can be improved. This song was first recorded last year. Hv. A senator, I think, mentioned in his first speech that Sweden had taken nine years on this, and Austria had something similar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u158	A respectable president. But it would have been closer. More than a proportion of the budgets were thrown into the head by the highest level of the budget. Secretary of finance again, telling him to take nine years to do this. We're not doing that. We're stepping into this frame of the note, without us enjoying it, especially at the council, any support to review the matter as necessary for proper business practices. And, yes, thank you. A financial committee for finding pills that separate business and investment from their opinion. They didn't do anything for me. An environmental and transport committee when I was working on it with my colleagues. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, and we get to turn our roles: How can we do so? A senator was equally critical of the majority of them, yet did he not suggest any serious adjustments in the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u159	Mr. President. It's complicated work and a lot of work to do. At least we have placed our criticisms, a greater proportion of the budget, on the financial agenda. We've noted points. I think such criticism is for good only. It's a short time, and I think it will take us a considerable amount of time to work into such a big program for Icelandic management. It's not as if the Ministry is ready for this discussion by one, two and three. Clearly, they need a very long time to adjust. However, the majority of the legal committees were doing the same thing as accepting income and remuneration, this side. And then we just want to look at certain things and get better analyses and other things that I think are very responsible, to get more information. As many have noted, the chronological order has been difficult, this government will begin in January, it is a short time, the plan is submitted by March, and hopefully we will be able to run this process until the year next year so that it will only be a little more dramatic. [[The president calls.]] I think it takes two or three years to achieve a decent system of this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u160	A respectable president. It may be responsible to provide evidence that further information will be obtained. But when it goes hand in hand with suggesting that the proposal be so unconvinced, I don't feel that it is especially responsible. Because the evidence of something that has become reality approved is a fine price to pay; we historians think very well of such data. However, data funded by men to make the decision, based on the data being collected, is responsible for the process. Certainly, this is a short period of time. Would it not, then, have been wise to try to extend that time as much as possible? It was never a matter of speech within the board that it might not be wise to let the calendar be the principal issue. Rather, it may be a matter of understanding from the Council that circumstances may be a little more difficult to go into the year, but the case was the case with the job? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, gave a extensive talk. He used to come around and fly high. I would like to ask him a question that I asked for another reason. A senator earlier. Although he is a senator in the capital area, I heard that he was a native of the country. At that time, he also cares for the territory. It is about electricity or electrical transport, which is in considerable numbers in many parts of the country and especially in the north. How does the senator see this case resolved? It's been in the middle of a lot of years. If he could give me a simple answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u162	A respectable president. The simple answer is to make me a industrial minister, and I will solve these matters. I'm certainly a native of the country. I always claim to be adopted by the Middle East if asked, because I have connections almost all around the country, and some of my colleagues are enough. It is true, though, that the electronics have been in a certain way for a very long time. I got it. I got it. A senator to study a discussion I had with the highest authority. The current industrial minister on these matters a few years ago where I asked the highest degree. The minister just went to the top. Minister of these matters. Clearly, cleaning up is a must. I think one minute would be bad enough to get into it. But I've been calling for the highest. As with electrical law, a minister puts government policy in line with electrical laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u163	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Yeah, a plan sounds good, and I'll agree. Another concern related to the country's area is the convention of tourists in the country. Now the pressure has become high in the South and West, the Golden Circle and all, and the ideas of tourism in the North and East have been spoken a long but small amount. Then I ask the senator, " How could the government meet the development of tourism in the country? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u164	A respectable president. I admit, I don't quite know why. A senator is referring to a tourist service, but in general, I will allow myself to use the same, in many ways, the harsh answer that I used in the previous question. Senator. You see, the fact is that in the affairs of tourism, there has been absolute lack of policy. In many respects, I think it's extremely dangerous. That is exactly the sum of private financial resources and even public funds that had somehow remained depending on their hand. There is no shortage of how governments want to see the building work done. With one hand, people have been participating in international conflicts to increase the number of tourists and even spread them across the land and the time of the year, but now clearly with the other hand, they are going to reduce the number of tourists without saying how they should affect that situation. [[The president calls.]] So policy is number one, two and three at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u165	Mr. President. It has been interesting in this discussion, and it has been a pleasure to observe the contents of it, such as at times, and to many governmental teams. Much is accomplished by the fact that today there is a great increase in funding into the others and these lawsuits. They are put together and blown out over five years, saying that there are so many billions, billions, or billions. It's all going out. Except, when predicted, 5 to 66% interest and perhaps 31.74% in the latter part of the time. Of course, it is easy to prove that there will be more money for health and social security and so on. But what is closer to using this standard and methodology? Where are the tablets that show us exactly what health matters will receive for the next five years as a proportion of GDP? Where are they? Where is the tablet showing that we are moving closer to 11% of the health - producing land? She's nowhere. It's not shown anywhere. It's the comparison you don't want to talk about. I've asked a few questions, but of course I'll never get any answers. It would be our personal guide to determine whether we are going to set priorities for health care, that we showed that it should be given an increased share of what will be replaced for the next five years. How large a piece of the multi-numbered cake will be, for example. health issues with us at the end of the time or with other problems? The result is that the combination is to be withdrawn as a proportion of GDP. It is by far the best measure of what much of the value in the country we enter into these matters. What is the common consumption by the state or government? It's government consumption, as the name suggests. It's all pay and pay-related fees in the state. It is all the government's form of service, all the money the state buys from others to provide welfare services. It's a combination. Hence, it is a very good measure of the power that the government has to pay and provide welfare services. It's supposed to be down every year, starting with 2019. That's cutbacks, isn't it? If we were just trying to negotiate that we were going to keep these proportions unchanged, to get a valid share in the growth of national income in the next five years, that would be a ratio of at least to remain unchanged. But it should not be done, it should be lowered. That's cutbacks. There is a cut off on the one right standard, the scale of how we divide the cake. There was also an interesting discussion this morning, which, of course, started too short, when it was the highest point. The minister of the press spoke up, and it was quite remarkable that he came in. He said: "Well, it is normal in today's growing national income that the consumption of the Memorial is reduced, to reduce the share of the segregation parties. This makes the automatic fluctuations of the state's budget. - Yeah, that's right. If they don't interfere with taking the state, and that's why they're in the upkeep of the economy, they're giving more money. Significantly, income can increase as a proportion of land production. Then there are so - called automatics. It is so that during the up-to-date periods, the income stocks increase, and they increase their share and other cost factors decrease. The problem, however, is that the automatic rhythms that remain in the state's budget were cut off for the entire last terms by reducing the government's revenues. Of course, if not, the progress of the government would have been greatly improved, and the remainder would have increased by tens of billions and again by tens of billions. Even if one had used some of that increase in investments in the inner well - being, it would have been possible to produce more Kingdom wealth. But this automatic fluctuation was decompressed through non-employment tax changes during the last terms that were always prescribed for the state's income loss, from income tax, a merit tax, by decommissioning tolls and goods, etc. What, then, will the right men do? They also remove the automatic fluctuations from relationships with possible downturns by inserting the absurd charge into financial policy, that it must not spend more than 41.5% of the GDP to the public overall, state, and rural society. So on both sides this right control has destroyed the automatic internal balance of public funds. That's all the genius. And they've done this before, with tragic consequences for Iceland. I would have liked to have the economist or what he is now educated, the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, and discuss this with him a little bit more. The instrument is also available in a lawsuit. They've been trying, some of the little girls here, to come up and attack our left green and that's why they're responsible for it, and say they're irresponsible, they're terrible tax increases, as if they can afford it now, the Governments. Yes, that's right, we're suggesting a considerable revenue and we're offering a considerable higher spending space entirely in accordance with our presentation for the entire last term, in line with our campaign emphasis where we put up our own budget, and in accordance with our presentation in the administration interview. It was evident, of course, that groups who had promised baloney expenses for the election's success, such as the Cradle, were not ready to collect a single dollar in financing. No, and there are groups responsible and also holding to what they say on a lawsuit and a proposal at the General following election. I'm proud we should. I do not envy those who rode the provinces in September and October. And praised large funds for road construction and in the construction of a health and education system, in the wood, to improve the interest of the elderly and the poor. Of course, if they've been meeting with the police, they've invited more police positions, and if they've met the National Reservation Guard, there's no doubt there's a promise of considerable financial resources. But what remains? Nothing? Yeah, as long as the economy stays. [[Forty billion.]] And if all of this works out, then, of course, there's a raise in the dollar. It is not to say to these people that it should be done for them in particular. No, no, it's not. And the income and the export of this is totally available, and my independent friends have nothing to doubt about. We have spoken clearly in this regard. We are going to take this money to those who are the best we can afford. It is the richest families in the country that now increase their wealth faster than ever, as in other Western economys, so the survival of wealth is becoming so passive. Only a few hundred or a thousand here, a few percent or tenms, have become largely all the accumulated wealth. And, of course, even the terms should be tied. by getting the money there. I'm sure that's all right. It's, for example. done in the rich Norway, has long been done, there is a wealth tax, a ◯forges tax. It is natural for the nation to gain more money from their resources. It is only natural for those with the most capital payer. It's only natural for us to set up higher carbon costs and higher taxes. What sense does it make not to make full use of the markets of road income companies? There's a total of 8 Been9 billion. We could set aside money to build up the roads now that low oil prices and good fortunes are at hand when the nation's financial resources for fuel are greater than ever before. It's normal for traffic to work. This has always been the case, unless the right men have neglected the price of these income companies. This is the balance measures we're talking about in the interest of the health and education system in the interest of road and transportation, in behalf of the elderly and the desperate, in order to better prepare for law enforcement, immunity and other such activities in the country. In this discussion, government officials will have the rhythmic choice that all of this is truly amazing, so much like a golden age and a joyful season to come. When the budget comes in the fall with a break-in to individual institutions, there will be cutting and cutting more than in the after-school schools. Are the directors certain that this is a reasonable presentation? It might be short enough to bring about such an inconsistency of this starving policy, a financial strategy, which, of course, is in no harmony with the procedure for campaigning for the need for international development and application, and in no way according to the circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we're not saying our last words in this discussion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u166	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a good speech. It's always interesting to listen to him talk about money, since he's been here a long time. Hv. In addition, a member of the body has been acting as a minister of finance, and as a result, he is very well aware of the government's affairs. Hv. A senator mentioned the transport issues here. I know he has a fierce passion for that group of languages. He mentioned that market income stocks were not used and that they had not been updated. I'd like to hear some attitude. To that end, a senator's opinion and his opinion of why existing government groups have allowed themselves to make transportation easier this time, where transportation was the issue before the last election. There's a big hole in a financial program, and we don't know where this government is going to go on transportation. That's very bad. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator into the topic field, which attracts the communities and settlements where he knows them well. We received a review of the State Accounting Committee, as well as a full review of financial resources. Has a what? A senator reviewed the financial council's comments on the communities? The European Union points out that the criteria are unclear and that the criteria are not expected to change in a financial programme. The financial adviser is critical that no action to take is expected if these changes occur. Then, too, the relationship has been severely critical of this point, talking about incoherentness and unrealistic outcomes and so forth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u167	Mr. President. It's not quite new, but it's not entirely new. A senator must remember that the disappointment has now existed over the past few years after the national situation began to improve 2012, 2013. It was hoped that transportation could be better. But then, in part, during the last term, people did not update the marketd income markets, so they are now letting go of some 8.8.5-0.9 billion dollars. if we take into account the trend from the introduction of a transport plan last spring, where it was assessed in more than 7. Since then, traffic has increased and all that, so it is quite clear that just by using these income companies, we could have about 8, 9 billion more from playing on the road. What is it? It's about what was missing was that the transport program approved by the first head was approved. It was at least asked the General that this injection would be needed. The final payment was 2 billion, but out of the reach of eight, we would be able to have this additional amount of money into the road system if we were to complete our income markets and the raised fuel costs, the oil tax, the heavy tax, the fare tax, the fare tax in some resources. It's just that way. It would totally change the situation. In fact, more would be needed because there is such an enormous need for maintenance, innovation, security measures, etc. Regarding my rural society, I have also referred to the narrow living things. It is quite clear that their recovery is about in irons plus/minus very insignificant and the plan does not expect it to improve. Most of the rural communities are recovering from the zero by holding back in investments and thus trying to reach their credit criteria. The level of investment is also very low in rural areas. It adds to the collective need for investments in the country. It's not only with the government that's too little to stop, ports, airports, houses, it's also with the local community. Economically, this problem is enormous, and it accumulates quickly. It is true that the survival of the rural communities in it and, of course, the community has to be considered. A senator mentioned, but I don't have time to enter it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u168	A respectable president. That was an excellent answer to my questions. I also wondered about the part of the community in a financial program. A large part of the government and the new government laws require a much greater agreement between state and rural society. So you wonder only, and it would be interesting to hear the opinion of the man. A senator, whether or not we are going to be at that place if we are going to take full legal action on public finances regarding discipline and stability and all the important goals we would like to achieve. I also wondered about the budgets of my rural society as well as the transport plan. We've mentioned a legal program in the discussion and other programs adopted and the government is following, or they say they're going to follow, if it's not right to make better use of these plans when the budget is written. [[The president calls.]] And also that the time limit is consistent, i.e. that there is not one programme in a three-year period, and another with five, etc., that we are working within the same framework with all the programs that the government's budget needs to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u169	Mr. President. There is a law on public financial matters that has to deal with the state and rural society that I think are improving, particularly that the minister of finance at the beginning of each year is to discuss with the local community and that he needs to agree with them or with a common understanding before he can actually put in place the official plan. I've been encouraging the local government to be a little attached in their talks. But very little is happening, and very little has happened, e.g. if we just mention that our rural communities have not yet made any share in earnings of growing tourism. It is now three, four years that they will be allowed to share in a stay account or some income in order to meet the ever - growing demand for travel services. However, this was not done, so rural communities are in such a narrow position. They have about one third of their public well - being. They have an enormously important part of the operation of the welfare system in the country. I've sometimes said and I'm going to say it here: "I sometimes think that border thinking is too rich. [[The president calls.]] We're in this together, we're in this together, we're in a community of welfare. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it must be equalized so that both administrative positions will have a decent supply to do what is lawful for them to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u170	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the council for a very good talk. He speaks with great knowledge of the jury as the former Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. I've heard that in a matter of fact. A senator has criticized the transparency taking place in the current national financial programme, where income costs and stock costs are often mixed together. He has also criticized how difficult it has been to get information, on the committee that I am and why. A senator sits in, about how money is divided into goals. But I wanted to ask him about what he spoke a little about in his speech, he spoke of the financial policy that was approved here at a council some time ago, with the fee 41.5% of GDP. The cost of the government is under way 41.5%. I'm wondering what. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask may agree with me that it was dangerous to put this roof in and tie it to the verdant domestic product, that it is of particular concern because if there is a downturn, we are bound to this roof. I'm asking why. A senator then has some information on how the government is going to protect services, such as health care, education, transportation, and so on. What leads us to do so? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon that the government might have to go if a downturn occurred, or the private enterprise or what it is; does he have any idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u171	The transparency that everyone so solemnly talks about on days - we can now ask ourselves, " What is the point of the mind when we receive such a financial program, which is held as impenetrable as possible? ' And when you even want to start telling your language about the Land Hospital, you doubt that your mind will follow through on the matter. I've criticized the charge roof especially. I think we'd have to have a bigger and stronger focus on it when it was here for January because it's so wildly stupid. It's so shocking to put this extra fence into the financial policy that the government's public financial laws called down, it was just a showdown for the present government to install this genius. Of course, if there's a downturn, if it's so bad that there'd be a year where national production actually intersected, then we're up in the roof right now. This is about 41% of GDP now, a half - percent table for food. So a little contraction meant a shrimping on the roof. So, what do people do? Then you have to cut or make money. [[The president calls.]] This government will not be able and will, so that there would be a prescription for resection, at the worst time for society. Because when a backslide beat is so important that it is so important that it can be softened in a social way by giving rather than the other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u172	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now we have a why. For example, a member of the World Health Committee, where the birthworm has been discussed. I'm glad that I'm going to raise the highest pay on my maternity vacation, but I'm very disappointed that there's no floor, like a dog. A senator has spoken about payment on maternity vacations. It is also disappointing that there is no expected extension of birthworm. I ask him if he sees any sign in the budget and if he sees any objective of meeting the parents of children who need to attend maternity services in order to extend them. I'd like to ask you what, too. A member of the council, for his left - green party has proposed many changes, whether or not they have reported these factors, e.g. how much floors in the maternity can cost or prolong your birthworm, perhaps even meeting parents who have to attend a ministry far from home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u173	President wants to get a good shot at what he wants. A senator gets two minutes because the president made a mistake and only gave him one minute the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u174	Now I like a respectable president. To answer the last question right away: On the basis of the data we were able to obtain from the Ministry and the Unemployable Insurance Fund or Food Ordinary Fund, it is likely that $3.3.4 billion would be needed. to do everything we'd like to do, to set floors so that no one could get less money than 300 yards. K., extend the birthworm for a year, and to some extent, the birthworm of those who would have to leave home will be extended to wait for food in a safe place. This is of this magnitude, $3.9.4 billion, and it would probably have to be a share of the stock of stocks in insurance fees to go to 0.924, I think it's relatively calculated. That's all. It would, of course, be just a revolution in obstetrical affairs. But the answer is: No, there is none of these in this program. Nothing. It's just this that men really hammer, that the roof should be raised from 500 to 600 o'clock. K. This is to be done in 2020. But wait, what is it? Does this do better than keep up with the prices or pay of the day? No, I doubt it. I think that's pretty much the value of 500 of you. K. The real value of today's real world, that's no more than that, is now all ambition. I only wanted to add, because I have another minute, previous answer about the roof. It's not just unwise to keep this crazy roof because it will dissociate all ordinary thinking in connection with state-of-the-moment flexion schemes and working against the economic rhythms, both in the upcoming and in the down swings. It is also quite unwise under the circumstances of Icelanders, as it is today for two obvious reasons. In the years that followed, we are about to face a significant challenge, 10 to 20 years later than many neighboring nations, the rapidly changing ages of the nation. All over the world, it has been assumed that there is a stimulus for health costs and medical expenses to increase and need more. Second, Iceland is going to make up a great deal of accumulated needs for various investments in the infrastructure and well - being that were left behind in the thin years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u175	The president would also like to insist that the last member of a speech has, in effect, taken this minute in an extra session. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In my books, this minute may be gone somewhere else. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u176	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. He spoke of us independence boys, and here comes one, that's just one, into the seventy. What I just wanted to do is that when we jump into the budget of the increase in budgets between years, we, the more part, with this for us in the financial program, about 4% and 7% in this period. Hv. A senator mentioned a change of 1st to a smaller budget from the left green, on top of these percent is being added - this is a little overall in the greater part, some 215 billion increase - but left green tops it well and adds 295 billion, so total it is 510 billion if we make the adjustment. So between individual years of budget 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, the increase ranged from 11.5% to 12.8%. ASI, financial advisers, and others made strong comments on the budget adopted in December as to the magnitude of an increase then, 8.5%, and found it unconvincing, it was noted in many places. However, there's a suggestion for a change to be made to reach a total of 11.5◯12.8% between years of age. Hv. A senator who made his case earlier, an experienced man from the Ministry of finance who knows the economy -- I think in a historical way we're talking about numbers that haven't been seen here for decades in Iceland's economic history, has to go very far back. That's why I want to hear: A senator would be advisable to apply such suggestions in the expansion of the current state of the state's budget to be increased by 11.5How12,8% between the next four, five years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u177	Mr. President. The dramatic increases between 2016 and 2017 have been reported or have been high in those topics. But wait now, wasn't it 6.5%, or was it 6.7% interest last year? [[Upward: 7.6.]] Seven.6% I say. Is this, then, some imperfect increase in that standard? The economy grew dramatically, and it is only natural that the State and its activities take part of that growth fully. This is not too much for the economy that the budgets are growing this year from the previous year. It is similar with the future. If we're going to have all these economic predictions, it's not unrealistic. Yes, it is a steep one, but our proposal is for every dollar in expenses and more than that. We're going to increase the rest of the state's budget to a half per cent of GDP next year. It's a conservative procedure in itself. I'm not afraid to reason with it any national economics. True, it is necessary to see how man would spread, such as. increase in investments to avoid the tensions of older sectors, such as construction and construction projects, all of which are aware. So let's take them across the country, and make smaller projects wide and wide, and so on. But I don't think it would cause any inconsistency to enter a little more into Land Hospital, into college, into high school. It's just the need. That's a fact. It takes a lot of work to do if we are to live up to our names and say that we are working up the neglect sins of the past few years, or that doesn't necessarily have to call it that way, just face the reality that we had to tighten our shoulders over years and that we did very little to these classes, and we added to them. At some point, we have to work it up and when should we do it if not in the seventh or eighth year of economic growth and when the circumstances of the people have really become very good for it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking why. A senator. When will he see it? Once you're back down, are you going to try to make it up? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u178	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Economic growth in Iceland was 7.2% and the second largest person in the world after India last year. We are not about to see such economic growth for the next four, five years. That is highly unlikely. On the other hand, if we make an economic forecast of 3◯5% a year, they do not offer suggestions that provide an increase in government spending of 113/413%. I can't figure out how to get lost. [[Up front.]] In fact, I think it would be interesting in this context -- and maybe this is an example of why we have to promote here the supporting systems of the council and the committee, wherever we want to have it, with economists and such, so that people can apply it a little bit to economists. I think it's just so boring the sizes we're seeing... [[Up front.]] We are here talking about an increase in the financial rate of 30.7% during this period. 959 billion in 1,254 government expenses. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u179	Mr. President. The hold always speaks of taxes as being of the wicked. The grip always keeps it safe to talk only about the taxes, never what they are for. The device does not want to discuss health status, education, after-school, university, university, or ideal microorganism. No, I think it just wants to talk about how bad taxes are and that the men who are going to raise them are horrible. We are not doing this because raising taxes is a goal in itself. We're doing this because we need to make money to run a good welfare community in Iceland. It's responsible for politics to have the courage to say it and to keep it. It's a cheap political thing to try to lie to people that they can run a powerful Norwegian welfare community in Iceland in some American taxation rate. It's been tried and screwed up before. It's just the way it is. There must be words and deeds, words and figures. There's an amazing break in this financial program from which, in many places, a beautiful text about all the good things people wanted to do and to the numbers, it's just a switch, there's no context, it's not connected. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, like the Screechers of old, isn't it time to connect? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u180	President. Piranha has requested information on the economic systems of this financial program under official financial legislation. At the same time, it is necessary to eliminate the uncertainty of the institutions for financial management, such as those found in a number of reports, such as the following: in reviews from Iceland's police chief of police society and the Sólsunist in the capital area. It is essential that information on the impact of the economic policies contributes to the budget so that the cutdown or further expenditures on budgets are not surprising. President. It is not necessary for precise numbers to be shown in this respect, just to see if there is a cut-down or increase in terms of a variation from the average of the case or of the Agency. If that information does not appear, we will be in the same course as the usual budget, with no idea of the course to follow. According to the Treaty on Public Economic Orders, it is responsible to follow a financial programme: analysis pays in business, initiatives and investments according to the international financial reporting standard on public finance. The following information was requested as a question. Councilmen of Leví Gunnarsson and Jón Þór Ólafsson arranged for the minister of the government, with permission of the president: ▪ Dissociates are determined by local and economic sectors, disintegration to pay costs, and cost of operating, divided by law, including temporary tasks, current and planned, and other costs. What matters to us is that the number set in the topic field is explained, where the changes that take place, e.g. in business, in private cost, and in a similar way. If specific measures are taken, they can be explained without the final statement given to the financial structure. With the members of Pirata, as well as with members of many other categories, except maybe the members of the government, have called for this information from the time that this case entered the General Assembly, and the public is an answer from the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance when this was taken up during an unprepared question period, that it would ruin the process if we received this information from members of Congress. President. Just now, Piratar and I got very serious reports that information we've been calling for just doesn't exist according to the Ministry of finance. This was shown in a meeting as a dog. A member of Pirata, Leví Gunnarsson, was representing the Ministry of finance to find out if we could respond to this written inquiry. The point at this meeting is that the financial program we're discussing here is based only on the 2017 budget, plus/minus some economic factors. The information currently being published is unexplained, and you cannot find out why the amount of information in a language field is given. Evidently, the amount of money is hanging out, and it can't be said to be anything but that it is a completely unpleasant business, professionally or in accordance with law. So we will not have any answers to our queries to the minister, but we need to point out that this was actually done without a professional premise that explains all the baldness and forgotten lawsuits that fall under the financial law of all equals. This has repeatedly been pointed out from different sources in the review process, while members of the Parliament have referred to it in comments to the budget committee from different professional committees. The senators have also been very diligent in pointing to this fact at the Assembly Hall. While members of the Parliament call for an informed decision, financial ministers seem to have no more than other ministers have taken steps to make informed decisions. Clearly, this is going to be a law of law, for according to the official financial law of economic analysis, to comply with a financial programme, as stated in the introduction to a financial program from the Ministry of finance, by permission of the president: A budget is now submitted a second time on the basis of government financial legislation. - Which is being broken. --Transfer plan includes the implementation of financial policy targets and the implementation of sectoral policies and the remuneration of public organisations. The law shall lay the basis for the development of a bill for funding and financial programmes of rural society for the next year. A financial policy is introduced at the beginning of a prime season and is not revised unless it is absolutely necessary, but financial programs are reviewed in the spring to five years of age. The program has aims for every topic field. This arrangement aims to create an context that becomes clearer between professional objectives and the resources spent on individual topics. The government's financial policy was submitted to the General Assembly on the first day of the spring following a new government, but under law it should be done as soon as possible. The timing of elections and time - consuming negotiations have set up this budget for a number of hours. Budget policy and plan include public members in general, i.e. State, rural society, government companies. As far as government business is concerned, making sure that decisions are in harmony with the economic objective, especially that investments are less during hard work and vice versa. One key factor in ensuring the maintenance of public finances is the cooperation of the European Union with government in the state of government funds over the period. This enables the government and the communities to cope more effectively and to soften its impact later on. Governments and rural groups will therefore seek to set their budget and tax policy in a way that will not allow it to expand in the first part of the season. Then it is important to arrange knots so that business investments owned by state and rural society are in line with economic goals. We just learned that there has really been no economic analysis. The numbers and information we've been calling for don't exist. I feel very serious, and I have to admit that I don't understand how these goals are intelligent, the highest. Secretary of the budget, I just don't understand it. I have to admit, I'm a bit shocked to witness to others like a carnivorousism and deception. No wonder a state of so much uncertainty about the position of institutions and others that it is customary to make money! It has been shown, President, that an enormous number of people have their jobs in complete uncertainty, and I really hope that the next time a financial agenda is proposed, a legal financial program, that it is not being put forward that is actually a legal offense. I would have liked to have received this information much earlier so that there could have been some way to deal with them. If this is the second time the plan is submitted, the same plan, the first time it can't have been established by government law. I think it's very serious. What are we doing making laws, and what kind of message is it in society if the highest rulers and the Ministry are not ready to follow the law of the land? Is government law just a joke? Why is this acceptable, and how is it that the members of the greater part have not done more to call out for this information, members of Congress who have access to the rulers of this government? It's amazing, I have to say that, to the highest. Secretary of finance has repeatedly ignored council requests for access, to the highest level. A minister simply could not tell the truth and acknowledge that this information we are calling for does not exist. I could give a long talk about what this law on public finances is like. And now I know why they're so defective. I hope that members of Congress will respond to the fact that this will never happen again. I wish and demand that if there be any end of the council in the next few days, there be a clear statement made by the executives of this administration that the next financial program will be made under official financial law. I think it's extremely serious, and I don't understand why the members of Congress are the greater part, and ministers are so charges against them. Do they not realize that they could easily be on the other side of the table? This is a financial program designed to ensure a specific professional position in the financial affairs of the state. I can't say that I think it's quite professional. I thought it was, so I'll allow myself to use the bright future's favourite words, amateur, absolutely amateur. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I think we're in one of those places with this legislature right now. I know people are doing their best, but I've just never experienced anything more than at this council, and yet I'm the senator who's been most continuously in the position of government after a collapse. I've never seen anything so willing. I can honestly say, President, when jobs are done well, I commend them, and I help. I haven't been given a chance to help with this. No, I've been given false and false information and it really bothers me, especially when we're talking about this. It looks like an extremely long budget discussion here, and a discussion and a work on the budget. It is difficult to take note of this box, and under no circumstances can it be possible to accept a new set of laws on government finance or new conclusions likely for the next year. It may just be the beginning, but now, no, it won't be taken seriously. It's not a law. When something doesn't pass the law, you don't accept it. This is to be done, not by law, but by good laws. I didn't mean to believe it when it happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came out of a meeting today and said that he had been told that we would not be able to answer these questions because there is no basis for these laws. I don't know what else to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u181	Madam President. I thank the senator for this review, and especially the fact that it was used slang about how various conclusions are made in this program. I think that's a little close to describing the quality of the work done at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Minister, Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson. It's all fucked up and then it's out as impregnable as you can, so we can't interpret the numbers. The senator became a talker of public financial laws. Then I wondered, because the management and monitoring committee on which she sits in received a state reexamination at her meeting, whether or not there has been a statement on whether the design of bringing together the bases and investments in one number through the whole plan is quite successful, whether the international accounting standards that are always being held up, or the mere law on public finances. 52nd. is, by permission of the president: A balance sheet for the entire A-part State Fund should be set up on the basis of international accounting standards for the public, which are targeted at the base of the management sector. Did this come up when the Government's Accounting came to a meeting of the Committee? Now that we're talking about a state reexamination, what can the senator tell me about the experiences of the State Accounting that I'd think was going to be with the top-numbered institutions of the country? What I read from the Agency's authority to the management and monitoring committee is that there was neither understanding nor understanding of the budget and the format. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u182	President. Thanks for the inquiry. In effect, the experience of the State Revision that is supposed to be the institution of perplexity that was a common error because everything is gulped together. It is difficult to understand when this period is paid out to different categories of subjects, and in some way it must be relied on somehow. I think this is a very serious situation that we are in right now, and I just have to repeat what I said before, not under any circumstances, I think we should respect this financial plan. It's just not ready, and I think it's a big story to fool around the Senate and others by saying that the plan is based on the criteria required by government law. I think it's a hell of a thing to get that information right before the end of the council. This is awesome. I've been over the comments and they're all in exactly the same way, that it's uncertain. Something seems to have been forgotten as part of this institution or an organization under budget, and we need to keep it so that when it is discussed, it will not take into account the financial agenda. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u183	Madam President. The Senator will not respect this program if it is approved. I don't think she's the only one. It sounds to me that no member of the board is going to respect her as they speak, unless it's possibly the highest. A minister of finance who is going to use it as a straitjacket against people when he brings in a cut or starves in the fall. Then there'd be quite an interesting glimpse of the executives who in these discussions have referred to a financial program as some kind of standard that we can change in the fall. I don't think the Minister says so. The Commission and Control Committee was also contacted by the Generals' emissary. I found it interesting to hear what a Kingdom Accounter had to say about the plan, but I'd rather hear from the senator what the Council's agent seems to be among the executives, giving up some part of the Congress's budget, contrary to our duties according to the constitution. [[The president calls.]] I'd be interested to know if the Board of Directors and Commission didn't get a sound from the corner when the U.S. Marshal came to visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u184	President. Upon being assigned to discuss this program, the U.S. Marshal was deeply concerned that this was a possible violation of the Constitution. This is how it is, and it surely is useful to have a financial plan, but it needs to be based on some basis, some course. This is not the case, and it's decided -- oh, it's so boring to use the word "sacrifice," but it's an awful willingness. I don't know why the word junk -- I don't like to have to say that. I think it is very important to have a vision of the future, where we are heading, and it is necessary for public institutions to have clearly, but unfortunately, this financial plan does not offer such a thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u185	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her history earlier. Because of what? A senator sits on a board of administration and monitoring committee that's interesting to her and her opinion. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was due to the interpretation of the validation of an optional book against torture and other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment, called the OPCAT Protocol. I wondered because of what. In fact, a senator or a senator points out that there has been no guarantee of the necessary funds to follow this Senate resolution and refer there to the Universal commission as a total of 38 million. K. an annual basis for this validation to follow. What's the point? A senator on this? Is it not financial time to follow through, or is this simply a matter of indifference? I'd like to hear it from what I'm talking about. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u186	President. I don't think it's a lack of interest to discuss with the Presidency Committee. I don't think the prime committee was aware that it was on page. 194 in this financial program, and here is a direct reference, by permission of the president: ... that there is a wish to introduce an optional book against the United Nations Convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment and that it might be considered to hide the Universal Agent in charge. The will, however, is not greater than that the plan specifys that there is no financial space to attack. - From the hand of the Minister of Economics, or the Ministry of Justice. This is one of the most important legal refinements in later times for those for some reason who are deprived of their freedom from the public. Condemned by the government, the strong promise to bring benefits to the first and has to be judged by the government that in the next five years, they do not stand to be reformed on this important matter. Because the Council concluded, and the General worked closely with the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the late Ólöf Nordal term that this would result in validation. That's why it was approved by a accordion at the council. But for some reason, this government feels that there is no financial space until the next five years. I just want to point out that a few years ago, an innocent man was deprived of his freedom and placed in solitary confinement for ten days under unacceptable conditions, thus becoming a victim of disability and lasting damage. If we had brought OPAAT, those conditions would never have come up. Now it is so that if we are not going to validate this, we are in danger of being inhuman and cruel treatment of people in need of freedom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u187	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. Like what? A senator pointed out that it is indeed sad that there is no financial space to live up to this international commitment when it comes to human rights, and I think it is. A senator must agree with me that it is also about political will and emphasis. Hv. A senator was brought up to the question of uncertainty about economic conditions and the analyses that support the financial agenda. In the same line of financial advice itself, it points to this very point in its review, making strong comments to the methodology used by financial programmes, suggesting that the economic forecasts used in recent years have not been effective, and the economic forecasts have made significant changes over time, and there is no diagnosis. Also identified a bang. A senator in his speech has a lack of transparency regarding all the information that is just lacking in the budget. And neither members of Congress nor fasting committees have been allowed access to information as easily as possible. A senator points to his review. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? When it comes to winning the next financial plan, a senator sees how to correct the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u188	President. I have a simple answer to that, simply following the laws on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u189	A respectable president. I want to give you a what? A senator responds to her talk, but do not ask her in a direct manner, as is usually done in the answers presented here. First, I want to say that I find it hard to say that there's a law against this place. I can't agree with that, and I'm gonna let myself refuse. On the other hand, in all the main things, I can confirm that at that meeting as a boy. A senator quoted and was held here earlier today, where we tried to resolve how we could get the information that Pirat's members had been waiting for, it was not possible to answer the questions in the manner requested. However, these questions raise questions. The senators helped us to understand the basic foundation we need to improve and trust to make sure that the next round we can get the tools and tools they're calling for. I totally agree with that. That was very clear. We had a meeting, including with an employee of the Ministry of finance and our committees earlier today, all of us are aware of how far we have to complete, if you can talk about it, at some point in this process. It was said, even Experts giving the Icelanders advice on these matters, when we were putting these legislation in the Senate during the last term, that it would be the experience of other nations that it would take five to ten years to set this up in Iceland so that the plan would maintain its place. V.E.G. A financial minister made this very clear at a meeting with a financial committee a few days ago that all the tips that had come up today would be intelligent and we would learn from them. It is my sincere resolve as chairman of the legal committee to follow through on this matter. [[The president calls.]] When this stream, so to speak, a respectable president, is finished with a financial plan, we review the experiences we have acquired and the bait we've done to the toes and try to take them off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u190	President. I am glad that the chairman of the legal committee is open to the fact that during the next period, we will learn from the mistakes made here. I know why. A senator didn't talk about mistakes, but if we bring the entire financial package of the Icelandic state, we can't take it like a stream, we can't. You can't, President, with all due respect. We asked the highest. Secretary of finance repeatedly, and he chose not to tell us the truth. I find that shocking. This workplace goes on trust. That is why I have to ask, " How on earth am I supposed to be able to trust that next time it's gonna be okay? ' I request a statement from the highest order. Its secretary of finance so that I can trust that I will. A tie-in statement. Nothing less.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u191	A respectable president. I just want to make sure we have a lot of work to do. I'm not going to get the grill that we're going to be finished in one or two years with these things. We pointed to the review of more than a portion of the legal committee as to what we needed. We made some improvements. We've changed the availability of a very small amount of scientific information, which was a great improvement. Pirata's senators have identified certain points, tools, and tools that we need to adopt. I don't think anyone deliberately planned to cheat on questions or in any way designed to keep any information from members of the council they need. I reiterate it, sire President, that it is the sincere resolve of all to a financial committee, and I have not perceived another spirit there, though I have called this stream earlier, perhaps because of the background of the theater which I have in a certain way, I would like to allow myself to say it this way, that it is, of course, a great problem to deal with as much as important as the financial issues of the state. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-26-72.u192	President. I am now raised in amateur theaters in the country, and I know the concept of running well. What I want to say here and how important it is that this project cannot be arranged unless a clear statement is made by the secretary of finance that the next financial programme will be carried out under official financial law. It's just that simple. If the highest. A minister is not confident that he will make a statement about this, I believe that there is a threat to council service here and the end of Congress.
