ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u1	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, marine emissary and agricultural minister, foreign minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u2	Madam President. During the last term, a very large step was taken in the development of private business in the Icelandic health - care system when the current health minister, the highest level, was present. Secretary of education and culture, made the decision to assign private agents to run new clinics. This decision was made without any democratic discussion at the General Assembly and despite the fact that a greater proportion of Icelanders want the health system to be expelled from the government. She was taken in spite of the fact that she was being made. in a global study, that government services can be done more effectively than private workers. That's the highest. However, a minister realized that there was no desire for ill health to be defrauded in society. Hence, he declared that these new clinics were not authorized to pay interest to their owners. V.E.G. On the other hand, on Sunday, the prime minister showed his view that it would be perfectly normal to pay interest from health care and other welfare services. Why not? said the highest. Minister, of course, who is his answer to a huge political and moral question about whether it is normal for private people to benefit from people's diseases. My answer is clear: There is no right or reasonable use of tax or patient fees to pay interest to people. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister: What has changed beyond the fact that the Independence Party no longer applies the Ministry of Health? What has changed since the end of the day? a former health minister declared that money should not be paid off from new clinics? Is that the policy of this government as the highest? The prime minister speaks in this way? So has there been a change in policy since the last government in paying interest from health and welfare?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u3	Madam President. In recent years, we have many negotiations with expert physicians. We can mention, for example, a contract made by the government in the last place with pediatrics, a treatable contract, who are commonly driven by private dentists in Iceland. We don't run state dental clinics so I know, but in that contract, the current government made no separation that people didn't make any money. What I've been referring to and is the probable reason for this inquiry here is that I'm not a reason to comment on the fact that anyone who runs a private business in the medical field pays off interest if they give up any leftovers in their business, no matter what way it's done. Not just in this area but in so many other areas where the State has decided to support the public service that conditions may arise in order to have some rest in the business. It may be a headache for some that these conditions occur in certain areas of the private conflict, such as If you are a health care professional. And the solution they usually have to do with the problem is to keep private workers from doing this. Another way is by saying: "We are not going to go to the territory of that activity, but we are going to ban payment. I think it's an old-fashioned method if you don't face a normal business environment. It is only self - esteem and a natural part of a private operation in general that if you give back any change, they can make money for themselves. Or are people going to try to trace it to details as to whether it is possible for real estate or for the government contract? [[The president calls.]] Then they're just in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u4	Madam President. It's just old-fashioned. Has the highest. A minister's not paying attention? Exactly what's up to the right. He quoted the Norwegian model Norway and Sweden in this interview, where there has been an increase in private control and privatization. These are the biggest political issues that have ever occurred there, i.e. that private people make use of their status through contracts with the state, where they enjoy public funds in order to pay themselves huge profits. Forbes' radical magazine published an analysis that was exactly what threatened the American health system, i.e. The motivations would have gone wrong. At the time of medical management, there was also greater motivation for setting things up in the wrong places, making practical adjustments so that the quality of the ministry was affected. How does the Icelandic health - care system manage to monitor the quality of the environment? Little quality control, high to a thousand people who have a contract to provide health care and quality control that can be counted on one's fingers, possibly on both sides. This is a huge political issue. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Is this government policy or what makes the policy change from what we heard from the highest level? A health minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u5	A respectable president. Hv. A senator handles one matter and puts it in line with other countries where this is a real problem. I don't know that money from health - related activities in Iceland is some sort of social ills in this country. [[Up front.]] You see, there is reason to have a complete independent discussion of these matters. It is possible to do so in many ways. Do we place special barriers, e.g. magazines for profit or profit money? Are we doing this with dentists? Are we doing so with those who sell medical equipment? These are all health care professionals. I simply agree with what. A senator will find that if we have built up a health system in one country where there is a sign of the work that takes place primarily for public funds, and yet there is something wrong with it. There's no disagreement with me if someone's trying to run him into a church hall. If we had entered that position, something would be wrong. [[The president calls.]] What I think would be the first thing about the state getting into a bad position and paying a higher price for the ministry than there was evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u6	Madam President. On May 16, 2014, the General Assembly agreed to the Porta arrangement to reexamine the drug policy on the grounds of the health and social systems for the help and protection of consumers and social rights, their clients and the community as a whole. Now, a team appointed by the former health - care minister has reported the results and proposals. The report says, with the permission of a president: ▪... that the problem of those dependent on illegal drugs is health problems, and it is at the same time high and high. Similarly, some of the harmful effects of such bans cannot be overlooked, as it increases the peripherality of consumer drugs and their excommunication from society. Such circumstances reduce the effectiveness of consumer health measures, such as damage reduction and other health services requiring uncircumcised trust between providers and clients. I understand that a minister has studied the report, so I would like to ask the following questions: Has a minister intended to implement the 12 suggestions proposed in the report of a former health - care minister on the shape of policy to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse? If so, do ministers have any plans for implementing them, in what order, and within the time frame?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u7	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is a very important inquiry because the report, and its underlying work, was timely. There are many new references in the report and in the tips we have a pleasant and obliged to follow. To answer directly, ask why. The senator, to see if I intend to implement the 12 indications in the report, this is being considered. I have, like, a whisk. A senator correctly explains, study the contents of the report, and is about to process it better. But this work has not come to the point that I have set priorities or that I have made up for the order in which we are going to look at the tips. It is of great importance that the report shows much attention to damage and detoxification, and it is the ideologies that we have increasingly adopted in health care. I can specifically mention the project by Mrs. Ragnhei, which is the cooperation of the Red Cross and Health Ministry, the well - being field of Reykjavíkurburg, and the health care of the capital area, which has helped to increase the quality of health care for outlanders and those most outside the home. The pessimizing thoughts that violate the report and suggestions are certainly high in my mind, and I hope that soon I can give the work started.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u8	Madam President. I thank you for the answers, and I'm glad to hear that. A health minister is interested in implementing any of these suggestions. There's a lot of benefits you can offer. But I would like to continue to ask if a minister is opposed to any of the suggestions presented in the report. I also ask if a minister feels that the proposals have gone far enough, especially taking into account that the results of the staff show that he does not eliminate prison punishment for the possession of users but should continue to be punished in the form of fines. I'm asking if the health minister agrees with that conclusion. Or is there something a minister would want to do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u9	Madam President. That's a big question. In short, I think it is possible to say that the person standing here is not against the suggestions of the group. However, I want them to be examined further and deeper, and perhaps especially when it comes to health care, to ponder each stone, let's say that we would not make decisions or make decisions without having gone deeper into some of the questions. In the course of punishment, I have in general, and in a short future, I have been in a state of discriminatory thinking when it comes to punishment and say that we should try to develop from a court of law for building up people. [[The president calls.]] This is not only in prison sentences but also in guilty and criminal record, it can have a negative impact on individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u10	V.E.G. President. It can be read from the government's treaties that law - enforcement projects are to be carried out and that more pressures on the national scale are to be seen particularly because of the rise in the number of tourists. In many places the situation is very serious, as the examples prove. Police around the country have called for increased financial support and improved the environment that has been built. on the increase in the number of people. Now that the budget of the government has been introduced, the intent of the government covenant seems to be completely forgotten. According to State Marshal's review of the Parliamentary resolution of a financial strategy by 2018-022, which is discussed in the Morning Press today, at first 50 police officers are fewer than in 2007, as well as in other operations. Second, during the past three years, pressures have increased as a result of the huge increase in tourists, as well as the increase in the number of inmates and foreign workers. Third, police officers are too few to allow the police to perform their service and security duties sufficiently. It also shows that the estimated cost of reaching the same number of policemen as it was in 2007 is 1 billion and 3 billion to reach the number 680, but police officers must not be fewer than that. This morning's paper also shows that the Ministry of State values it so that there is no financial scope for implementing a number of public and financial security projects as outlined in financial programmes. So we have to set priorities for law enforcement, fieldkeeping, and other matters. V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Justice, with reference to what is stated in the government's decision to determine whether the goals there will be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u11	A respectable president. There's hope for it. A senator, and perhaps the entire body of Congress, asks about the police in relation to the news broadcast that has been the past few days of a financial program presented here at the General Assembly and conducted on the part of the government and discussed in committees. I have to say, it's pretty steep on the police to assume that the financial plan will come back in the cut-offs described in the speech at any given time. Senator. I want to make right what I know. A senator knows, but he may be less well known for this conference hall, that financial plans are solely policy - making for the next five years and are attracted to the total population in a given area. Work has not yet been carried out as a means of how capital in individual fields will be taken care of. That work is in harmony with the financial work that is about to begin in the councils these days, and it will continue until the autumn and then be discussed. It is by far uncertain and entirely out of thin air, I think, to claim that a unique police office has to reduce its activities or somehow reduce the number of people. It's just not the time to discuss it at this point. However, I would like to insist that police and legal contributions have increased by 34% between 2014 and 2017. It is about 4.7 billion, which has been provided in oversoldier law enforcement agencies. I don't think it's fair, if it's done by the police itself, to argue that the last few years have been cut down on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u12	V.E.G. President. We may have a different view of talking about financial strategy as sole policy. As noted in the case of a minister, there is no new need for priorities. This does not change the fact that it must be added to do better if it is not to be bad. This is evident from the comments made by a minister, and it may even be understood that she feels that there is enough to be done. On the other hand, the Marshal's opinion of the situation is that police officers are too few to perform their service and security function in an adequate way. When we discuss these matters, we are discussing the security of the city. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has made a special assessment of what is needed so that the police can handle a legitimate service and security role.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking my troubles off. I did not mention in my speech the need to set priorities. But that is probably because the call is made, of course, priorities always need to be set. When it comes to law enforcement, it is good to bear in mind that huge organizational adjustments took place in 2015 by reducing the number of police officers from 15 to 9. It was then assumed that it could take three or five years before the results of these organizational changes, including those in the first century C.E. The practicality of business and the necessary flexibility of police services across the country would be evident. I have high hopes that in this new organization, men are still at their feet, which I would like to mention has been very well known throughout the country. However, it is clear that the funds that will now be added to law enforcement will be replaced by the growth of tourists, with border control and assistance, and with the service of the trustees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u14	Madam President. Not many years since the Conspiracy was the only group involved in its policy list of bids. But now, as the second and two of the three political groups also had that national agreement on their campaign policy. It is most direct to use proposals and markets in the process of docetanes or additionaltons, as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. V.E.G. A sea economist will tell you that it is important to make peace with the sea resources. I think it is highly unlikely that we will be able to collect the sum of the cost of fishing until it is determined on market grounds. Thus, there is a fair price, and the people of the country, the owners of the resource, can be sure that one is not being saluted above another. The whole fishing system must be transformed, but it is possible to take steps in the right direction in the next year of fishing. During the last year of fishing, the cod was increased by 21,000 tons and by the current fishing year by some 5,000 tons. According to recent measurements, the cod population has never been larger. Therefore, it is likely that for the next fishing year and if not for the next year, an Merit Research Institute will suggest supplementary codrots for the next fishing year. In any case, additional paroxysmals may be expected in the terms of the term. If the additional part of the company were to be offered a smaller opportunity to obtain a greeting at a lower price than the larger materials would rent it on. Now the weight goes on more than 200 yards. The price of fishing that flows to the kingdom is only about 11 cents. There is also experience with the way out to the extent to use in terms of reconciliation. Minister's plan is to initiate the launch. So I want to ask the highest. A seaman minister whether it is not a just and good suggestion that the additional parvoting, whoever it becomes, will be offered instead of bringing it out to those who have goodbyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u15	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Harðardóttir of Oddný for this question, for pointing out in this field that this week the ultimate commission that representatives of all political parties of the council will be involved. Why? You think, is this another reconciliation committee? This may be another reconciliation committee, but this is a committee with the tremendous importance of trying to reconcile views on this basic way of our Icelanders, the seabed, which is still the industry that makes all the most valuable and is by far the most creative. It's a huge project. I believe in it. I heard why. A senator does not feel very optimistic about the possibility of reconciliation - but if I don't believe it, who will believe it? Throughout history, members of the entire spectrum, both from the left and right, have come to build an enormously powerful seabed. We have a powerful, good fishing system that we're proud of. We have an excellent government. They look to us. And all councils, from left to right, have come to build it. A hard decision was made in 1983 to enter the greeting system. Again, under the leadership of the left government, a difficult decision was made regarding the free fishing capacity. But this has helped us to achieve a high economy, practicality, and particularly sustainable development in our fishing institutions. All of this is of great significance that we face the possibility that possibly and hopefully the cod population will continue to grow. But I want less trouble. According to members of Congress, it is only in 2007 that the cod population was fixed to 130,000 tons, so it is not necessarily possible that we build a strong species here, a fish stock of codfish. What's the question? But I would like to point out that while the committee that doesn't have much time, it has this year's work, I believe it has the right to allow her to have room to evaluate the best ways to contribute to the greater reconciliation of this fundamental work of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u16	Madam President. During the past ten fishing years, food has increased to a total of 114,000 tons, or from the fishing year 2007/2008. It takes time to implement a good system change. Therefore, at the beginning of the terms of the term, people should begin their treatment immediately. I challenge it to the highest. Ministers to take advantage of the body member of the Parliament for system change, as defined by the party's declaration for the last election, although it was only for the next step offering out the second box. The current modeling industry is not threatened by offering out the extra box. What would you say against inviting him out? In the Treaty, most reformed cases of restoration are put into practice, as are the need to consider whether something should happen. And it stays at the end of the season. It is as if it is done to make sure that there is no time to accomplish it. Has the highest. Ministers don't worry that they don't really have time to go into the system changes? [[The president calls.]] Time is used in a reconciliation committee that will return something that is not yet time to complete the terms of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u17	Madam President. That's why it doesn't get too long, that's all. We know the basics and we have the knowledge, we have research, a variety of opinions presented here at the council over the years. But I have to say, one of the best opportunities to take the market route, the auction route that we need. A senator agrees a little, and can be agreed as well. A senator said earlier, in the past, was in the time of the left government when a new structure, the macro, came into Icelandic jurisdiction. Then there was not a journey that even took place. The party's been talking about. Then there was a golden opportunity, a new source of Icelandic jurisdiction, to experiment with new ways. Now when we're faced with putting down a committee that has the important role of making peace - I'll keep it on the subject, I have my opinion, I believe the government should get a fair payment for the access to the resource from those who come to the resource. [[Up front.]] That's it. I believe that all classes will make an effort to make peace in order to establish stability here and we will not make this a political debater for the next election, the next election, and the next election. That's why there's too much at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u18	Madam President. Last week I had a nice conversation with the highest. Industrial minister for United Silicon, Smokeytown. I have a similar mission now, i.e. It has to do with United Silicon and, in fact, also with the PCC on the Back, if not on it. The law on the use of new investors in Iceland says in 5th. ... forthereservationoftheents, by permission of the President: ▪ When assessing whether to submit to new investment according to these laws, the following conditions should be met: It's under the "I" team: The introduction of new investments and the use of instruments and equipment resulting from it is new or recent and meets the criteria for the method of loyalty and pollution. L-aide, by permission of the President: ▪ That the function of an obligatory member is entirely in accordance with Icelandic law and government regulations, and the function does not conflict with general well - being. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister if he wishes United Silicon's factory in Smokeytown will be able to fulfill these laws I read.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u19	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Its point is correct. During the preparation of the project, United Silicon claimed that the company focused on using the best available technology to minimise air pollution, soil pollution, and water pollution, as well as on operating in accordance with the environmental issue published to the organisation. However, it is the EEA that allows the factory to work and the Agency monitors that the network works within the framework of this and the framework of the general laws on the environment, as well as the National Health Committee. The EEA is the agency that has the authority to take action and repair if this is not done. The investment agreement does not really come into play, nor does it result in any discount on these requirements or provisions. If warnings or fines are ignored, the prospective EEA is the decision-making agent for the next steps. As a result, I am not a minister or the Ministry that directly enters it, but it is the EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u20	Thank you very much. Minister in depth. I am very well aware that it is the EEA to make sure that the things that were brought here in particular are okay. It didn't stop the highest. In fact, to present a very clear view of United Silicon's operations, the noble minister received a little trouble. I would like to follow this in my second question to the minister if he and the Ministry will specifically support the EEA and/or monitor that the EEA will stand on its feet when it is time to develop a PCC project on Backka's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u21	Madam President. I think I can just say that it is perfectly clear in my mind and in the Ministry that the companies who are about to start a job and are going to go to work have to follow the rules that all companies are supposed to follow. I don't want to expect other companies to fail to meet the requirements they are required to perform. In terms of whether I give special support to the Agency, to the Mexican, to a formal or to what, I feel that it needs to be clear, and that I can always agree that the companies who are involved in any kind of operation shall meet the requirements to be met, whether in the law, contracts, or any other. I reiterate that these contracts and investment agreements do not result in any discount on the requirement but, rather, a discount on the fees to make it perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u22	Madam President. The number of government agencies in Iceland is about 200, with more than 24 of them working. ... aman. All government agencies use computers to some extent. A great many have a custom system. Each institution has, in fact, developed its own structure and internal systems with no synchronous configuration. It's been a different product. While some systems are extremely efficient, others are built on a very conservative foundation. There is no overall assessment of which systems exist, who run these systems, how much the operation costs, and so forth. This was true of accounting until 2003. In fact, the government's accounting system was a revolution when it replaced many accounting systems throughout the system of government. The team did a great deal of good, but the project was critical for many reasons. The development of the system over many years exceeded the timetable, and according to a 2012 National Review Report, the target cost of the system was approximately 41% higher than expected. A total of some five billion dollars have been paid by the State for the accounting system. According to the 2008 PricewaterhouseCoopers report, there were a number of serious security defects in the system, including because of anonymous experiments with broad sources. Yet, this is clearly an example of a successful government software project. According to the study of Þórður Víkingur son of Friðgeirsson, editors at the University of Reykjavík, 70% of the public projects cover the cost. The main reasons are that decision-making is not based on a planned risk analysis; first plans are often unrealistic; delays are underestimated as well as unforeseen costs; need-to-knowing is not well enough; political control through selection of systems; wrong partners choose the systems; there is little support for managers and users and lack of teaching, training and documentation; and more may be drawn up. It is also known that safety concerns are widespread, the bug testing is incomplete, and the software development quality management is not good enough. All of this needs to be corrected. I would like to discuss some things related to how we should be doing things. The first point is free software. Free software is a software that everyone is free to use, to look at the source code, to learn from, to share, and to improve. It should be without question that all the software developed at the State's expense is free because it ensures that the state always has a chance to switch services and that society's infrastructure is inquisitive, both for academic and academic purposes. It also shows that free software is generally safer than other software. It's a set-up approach. In recent years the need for open access has also been increasing. This means that the information that the state has on its way is accessible in open and standard formats that are both mechanical and human. A new government law states, with permission of presidents: It should be available in a computer format and in an open media, and these data should be available to all in the post-requisite fashion. In spite of this, this data came from a budget bill last autumn not until after the budget was approved because the data were not yet completed. Now it's impossible to work with the bill without the data on the computer. The problem was likely, in effect, that working with a closed file format in a free environment is not easy to access and work with the raw data. In particular, the demand for open data is that the government's work environment dwells in open formats so that it is by default that the data are open without any specific processing. All government data must be readily available unless there are certain personal and national protection issues and may be necessary to monitor them and not depend on specific licenses to use them. The establishments of the State render considerable service to the common people. A lot of that service is done through forms on Web sites where people need to enter information. The sharing of these services would be a revolution for the common people. It has been won only by Iceland. But more is needed to attend all services at one place, whether to register, report or what to do. The easiest way to achieve this integration is to build a present system open a programming interface that allows all applications to talk to each other. If so, a new attitude could be extended. There have been countless unexpected, interesting and valuable programs through open programming interfaces and open data. Of course, we should take advantage of that newly created enemy. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot more to discuss in this context, and I hope we can have a good conversation about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u23	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy's on it. Information systems and databases, software development, and free software; everything is very important but often wants to be shadowed because of its technicality. But it's so extensive that I can't go deep in the subjects of my speech. Today, therefore, the financial and economic webs will be published with a much more thorough answer. A number of aspects of information systems are fairly general and comparable to institutions. A figure can be cooperated. They especially contain systems that carry e - mails, documents, and tissues. Also, cloud solutions have made it easier to obtain a number of aspects of computer systems without giving a discount of security. However, cloud solutions can be in a very gray legal area where the data are not fixed in which land they are stored. There is little to suggest but that cloud solutions should be practical for the public. Several databases are currently in use. There is a great opportunity to make their use more uniformly, including the following: to reduce costs and simple management. The same can be said of the websites used for public institutions. Many systems are in use and are either housed outside or within the facility. You can refer to this in a report published on the Ministry's website. Hv. A senator mentioned integrating systems through open programming interfaces. The Department of Economics and Economics has been a member of the European Union's projects called the Landwork of Cooperativeity. The services developed to ensure access to the following number of national systems, including National records, company records, driver's licenses, e-mail records, credit signs, customs records, school records, and school record. In addition, there are helper services that ensure authentication, electronic signing, email transmission, etc. These services are being made more accessible through the common website which will be accessible to those who develop the Kingdom system. Adolescent also mentions the methodology of public software development, particularly in the case of error testing and quality management. Here, the so - called Fossamodel has been available for a long time because all software requirements are submitted at the beginning, created, and tested at the end of a period. According to so - called Agile conceptology, the project is divided into a short cycle rather than one large step. Few standards for software are available for the Icelandic State, and these requirements need to be renovated. However, there is an IST 32 standard from 1995 on the general conditions for tenders and contracts due to data processing. It contains measures to test contractors, organisations, and improvements. On access to open data, I say the state is already running the site open. Yet, there are sadly few data sets and little functions. The Internet is run by Iceland's National Registry, but it's not relevant to the institution. Such services are never better than the data they have access to, and it's up to institutions and Member States to do better. Since I've been in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, I've been climbing my interest in the fact that there will be as much information published by the Ministry's Office and the Ministry itself. For example, the publication of government accounts and annual accounts is of the company. As to the importance of such a process, we are aggressive. A contingency. There's a lot of work coming up. Since 2008 the policy of using free and open software has been in force. The main theme of the State's open and free software policy should be that free software should be given the same opportunity as special software when deciding to buy new equipment. The policy stipulates that public members will not be overly dependent on individual software manufacturers and services. Of course, this policy has not been revised or evaluated for its effectiveness, however timely. A respectable president. Within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Pirata's interpretation of the technical director of the State has been carefully read. The government's computers are being carefully reviewed and its public shopping for software and hardware, etc. The aim is not only to reduce costs but also to increase the satisfaction of the population. Although there are many areas in Iceland where there are better ways to stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the antiquated discussion. I'm just going to take it easy on twos, on the one hand, and on the other, I'm going to open evidence in general. It's in this as if in so many other things, we run into a series of setbacks at the small integration of the public. As we have mentioned earlier at the council, 11 members of the Ministry are in charge of 11 social services, which, in fact, leads to that. the mobility of workers within the board is less than desirable. In addition, we have dozens of government agencies that sit on data in different formats and who are unwilling to give up the data for common use even though they have been won for public funds. For the general open data, I don't think there's any doubt that there's any increase in access to unregistered data is good, as was the case at the time of the time. The Environment and Resource Minister set up the data of Iceland's National Affairs free in January 2013. Use of this increased considerably, mild to words, stable users went from 1 per cent up to 2,600, and data levels increased by a hundred times that were loaded down from the soil analysis. Geological analysis has carried out, in accordance with its design, the so - called ground-up study has been conducted every other year, in which the Agency crosses the stage, and it found that in the last 2015 public institutions, there were 32 organizations that would have been brought together under 326 data sets that should be brought into this open land-based database, although only if we were to meet the requirements of INSPIRE directives for the integrated use of land data. The evidence is now in place, waiting for someone to cut the knot from the government and begin to flow into open use for the benefit of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u25	A respectable president. I would like to thank the speaker and thank you to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I was very interested in discussing this matter here at the council and in this hall, perhaps rather looking to the information community in general and how public management could be managed and better served by a stately and well - official government. The fact is, although we have very good tools and tools, and most homes are online, we have not been making full use of these, nor have we come out of any particular detail in this regard. I had a report on the information community, which is actually only in its years, and I'm assuming that it is working on new policy areas where policy measures apply to 2016, but it is quite clear that there are great opportunities. We have set the goal of reaching the 15th in the so - called U.S. government office. If I read from a recent report released in 2016, we will be in the 27th and clearly that we have not achieved our goals in this regard. So there's a smart opportunity for us to do better. I welcome what is presented in our excellent financial program on the importance of public electronic administration and opportunities there. That's exactly what's in it with coordination. Our success is only to coordinate on it. I'd also like to mention something very important in all this discussion, which is online security. Our Internet security forces and our Internet security policy - they also make us very vulnerable. If we are still working on improving the electronic administration that I think we all agree on, we need to consider these factors in particular. Only in the financial program are we going to the University of Oxford for evaluations that will take out our stage in Internet security, and that's good. [[The president calls.]] But I really hope that we have such an opportunity to follow through on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr for this discussion. I expect he will continue to draw attention to information technology while he sits here at the council. I also thank the secretary of finance for his answers. This is a rather short time to discuss a big case, and thanks to the fact that further data will now appear on the Ministry of finance. There are some things I would like to mention here at this brief time. First of all, I'd like to talk a little bit about the cost. It has been reported in the financial conference that the government's information cost averages about 7% of the population's financial cost. That would be about 15 billion. This year, which is being spent on state information technology. So here we are discussing considerable sums of money. It was also noted in this meeting that there is a great deal of work, that we are simply very uncomfortable when it comes to information technology. There is no central communication exchange between the state's information systems, we are now very short on computer cloudification, we have neither policies nor targeted actions on computer cloud use or general management and the management of key information systems. Many institutions perform comparable tasks each to design and maintain web sites. It's enough to look at the Council itself. In particular, I think there are significant opportunities to shop. We were discussing it in the General and Education Committee, when it comes to buying the equipment for making passports, how important it is to buy groceries and how much money you can save. It is a joy to see that millions are being saved in an effort to make better use of the commercial resources of the State. Finally, I'd like to make a special statement and say the same thing with a bang. paritaprevir Mysterious life of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is about what has to do with Internet security. [[The president calls.]] If there is a government that should emphasize Internet security, it is the government with the prime minister who has been exposed to two of the world's largest computer databases.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u27	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for calling attention to this important matter and setting it up. I'd like to discuss it in the big context. If this case is just as random and vague as a senator would say, it is only a classic example of what happens when we do not worry about our future and then let it come behind us. The computer revolution is relatively young, and it is likely that the government has used the technology at any given time. Of course, we need to learn. I supported and followed all the suggestions aimed at building and applying a comprehensive policy on these matters. This is not only a matter of better use of money but also of the security of its inhabitants, of their ability to observe and participate in social shape and government decision making. Thus, it is a huge matter that is important for the development of democracy and perhaps not unexpected that it is scheduled by the Pirates. I think we're supposed to be teaching this thing because we're facing even bigger challenges. Beyond the corner lies a huge social change caused by progress in machines and software. There, not only will muscle power be released, but mental strength will also come true. Hence, we need to look to the future and get ahead of it and be prepared for these changes. That's why I also remind of the Synod's resolution proposal to react to a new technological revolution so that we're prepared and we don't, as I said at the outset, the technology's coming behind us. Thanks for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u28	A respectable president. The most simple way to describe computer systems is to say: Rapid development and extensive renewal. Computer systems are tripled: First, the hardware, the computer itself, the connections, and the peripheral devices. Without the machines, the rest of the systems are useless. Next, it's the software, the programming that counts and draws. The software is our communication skills with computers, the bridge between human and mechanical languages, the way to get our ideas into digital shapes. The last part of the computer systems is the people using computers. Computers are in their own simple way just a device to speed up and reduce errors in calculating, but they are so versatile that they offer an entire world opportunity. If the government's computer systems were to be simple, it would not be most reasonable to say: Rapid development and extensive renewal. The problems of government computer systems are also threefold. There are many things you can do to improve your hardware, whether it is about choosing the most suitable devices and doing better in shopping. Certainly, hardware costs are expensive, but effective use of up-to-date technology can result in a much greater loss of cost, especially when using the devices is paired with software or software development, choosing or creating a software tailored to the needs of the government. The opportunities and instruments are enormously varied. In order to make the most of the opportunities, users of the systems need to follow the trend. Buying the best tools and getting the latest and best software is no problem, but if people don't know how to use these tools, nothing will happen. I'm going to let me claim that this is the biggest problem here. Official agencies are not expected to have room for development of their activities along with technical staff with the tools available; tools or tools that even cost nothing. An example of a good assignment is open and computerized. The dataset is far higher, and it is necessary to ensure open access to these tools in order to ensure a digital status of Icelandic in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to name one of those emphasises as fast as possible. A senator mentioned open data. I admit, sometimes I'm a little skeptical when I hear all the facts. The results of such work can often be one - sided operation, one performed, one at home that is opened. We have a page like that, open ground.is, and 43 databases. The European Union's Office for Economics, Eurostat, has some 6,000, although this is not entirely comparable. I don't necessarily think that what needs to be gathered all the official data into one place, it's much more about the institutions that handle data should set up good warehouses for their data and then make them warehouses available. In order for that to happen, three things must be done. First, a program needs to be easy to find out which data are available. We're going to have a meeting with you and teach you how to use the system. Second, the data need to be in shape, which is easy for applications to work with. No, Jói, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Third, justice needs to be clear. The data need not only be free but also need to be relighted and reused. Not that the director of some institution has to be convinced that the use of the information will please him or her. Especially when it comes to the latter, some adjustments may need to be made. For example, most of the data produced by the U.S. government are public property, the European Union does not have the rights of authorship. That arrangement is something that we should imitate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u30	Madam President. I thank you for this discussion, which may seem technical to those who are not deeply involved in a systematic discussion, but it is still extremely important for both the public and the government. I'd like to use my two minutes here to say, because I cut by the highest. Economic and economic ministers said before a proposal of a lawsuit, huh? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, of the government's technical director, would be considered in the Ministry of Economic and Economics, that I think such a proposal might have a very positive impact on the general government policy in these matters. What I believe is that the institutions of the state do not necessarily speak among themselves, and the Council does not necessarily speak to institutions, so that simple things, such as making tasks that I can name myself, and therefore have personal experience with, which was ensuing the use of free and open software in high school, can prove to be difficult, because there are walls between institutions and the Council of Government. It has also been difficult, such as. for the Management Board, to install free and open software, which is the security shield which should still be fully overcome. In order to save, because the use of this software has often proved to be a huge savings on funds, but also to ensure an increased innovation in how we think of the computer and computer systems of the state, I believe it would be very interesting to provide the proposed proposal - I encourage it to get on schedule - and to ensure the necessary coordination that has been discussed so that the service is accessible to the public, that security is being made safe, that the systems we are using and at the same time as the most open. I think we can do much better when it comes to coordination within the system and between systems, and for this, I think it's important to get a very clear control of those issues and that these criteria, transparency and freedom are guided also by what I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u31	A respectable president. This discussion, in fact, has come out in many parts of the world, I think, and it may be said that the emphasis that is originally laid here is not very clear and can go out into a wide field. However, I'd like to say that in the 60 years that the Icelandic state has participated in software and database usage, all the streets of the National Institutes, I want to say, as an example, what is just happened to most people in this community, i.e. ... toexploit tax. It was a severe headache in most homes for a few weeks, but it is now a few minutes' work for the normal person. However, it is a matter of question whether the systems in use, whether in the Haust Room, the Secret Bank, a national or elsewhere, are available to connect them with other systems, but I shall not judge them. Sadly, though, when it comes to economic management, a new need seems to develop, so that the economy is, as a result, not at a lower cost, but to meet this new need that will result in a new cost. It was mentioned at the outset that in need analysis and in software costs, most of 70% of projects exceeded the cost. This may be true, but was it not a necessary diagnosis of wishful thinking at first? However, I would like to mention one example that may not come directly into the state, but is related to it, i.e. In fact, financial markets: Stock markets and price markets for Iceland, these two companies, have led to a significant decrease in financial costs, but unfortunately, it is my suspicion that the cost has not paid to consumers. All natural resources to return directly to consumers' pockets in this field as well as others. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for starting this very important subject. The person currently does not have an expert on programming and technology, but he worked for several years to introduce document management into a large company before entering the General Assembly. I have to say, when I began to study these subjects, the electronic filancy and the computer systems of the institutions, I was amazed to see how wide the pot was broken. It was kind of horrible to find out when you came into this world at the time. Some members of the Parliament have mentioned the importance of Internet security, and I agree that it is very important to consider. We're still pretty helpless at this point. Personal protection issues have also been presented in the discussion today and cloud solutions. I thought about it and would like to hear from it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy how safe the clouds are. It would be very interesting to hear more about it. The benefits and the availability of information are more readily available to the public. It's very important, and we should all go that way. But then I mention it, stressing the importance of improving systems and coordination, as well as the support of other members of the body. We are far behind neighboring nations, resources, according to my information, and I feel that we are in the same place as with information today, and the public may have been about financial matters about it ten years ago. That's where we need to get our heads together. I agree that there is a need for a total resolution on these issues and policy measures and complete compliance necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u33	A respectable president. As a health care provider, I have come across a number of factors that involve databases, information systems, choices and development, integration and shopping, both computer and software. I don't know what I'm talking about, and I'm not completely ignorant of technology, but my lot has been this. I know all well about induction and development of two large electronic systems, i.e. Orra's medical records system, history, and accounting system, as well as the efforts and intent to exploit open software, was driven by public agencies. In the 1990's, the development of history began. It was the initiative of a private agent who made a deal with the Ministry and paid a considerable amount of money for it. In time, this system became a commercial product for a software market, and so is today. The government doesn't own the system, and it doesn't have the right to do so. Strains pay monthly fees for the use of each terminal and, of course, try to keep the number of them to a minimum for savings. It's a bad arrangement. The system is not sufficiently acceptable, but it has developed greatly improved after the surgeon's office of oversight and oversight. The health system calls for a modern system that answers the demands of professional information input and flexibility. Another large induction was the sale of the official Oracle System Orra, accounting, human and human resources system for every government agency, the tinyest. Of course, the State needs a coordinated system in this regard, but most agree that the target was quickly fired, the system is suspended, and the information is reversed. Despite wishes, the institutions have not been enabled to choose another option. Only a few organizations have thrown away their yoke, run into their freedom, and chose alternative options. In this regard, there are the offices of the Generals, who use the system only to a minimum. For open software, it is empty to talk about and is fully developed. The Kingdom does not want to see such things, apparently, no matter what statements may be made. All the major systems used in the state of the world are supported by Windows Control Systems and users landing at filmlevels, requiring more than medium-use knowledge for today's open software. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u34	Mr. President. Thank you for such a great discussion. Clearly, there are many things people are interested in in in this context. I agree with many others why. Councilmen who have spoken up and received the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. But I disagree with the highest degree. Financial Secretary on cloud solutions for four main reasons: security, cost, national security, and then the access to data. You see, we are now offered at the General Assembly, and most likely more people in the Iceland Government, use cloud solutions that are saved abroad, even people who have national security and their commercial interests. When we're talking about cloud solutions, we're talking about storing our information on someone else's computer, on a computer that's not under our control, and we have no control. This is something that is unacceptable. And I agree with that as well. paritaprevir Guðjón S.'s Brjánsson noted the cost of the medical records. If this system had been free software from the start, it would have been possible to take it and move it to another service provider as needed to minimize the cost. There was only mention of the Internet security team at the post and communications agency called CERT-IS, which was a great deal of relief when added in telecommunications. But they've been a bit slow to get their job started, and the last time I checked, there were only seven safety reports from them. This is a point we should consider. Free software, such as in VMA, has given rise to the largest workplace in the country. Free software has been used there for eight or nine years. All of this suggests that a wide pot is actually broken in the system. There are international models that we could consult, such as 18F in the United States and GDS in the United Kingdom. The present disintegration of government systems and government systems simply has no advantage. [[The president calls.]] It costs too much money, it's way too complicated, and we can simplify it by bringing together and trying to work on good policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u35	Mr. President. We Icelanders tend to beat our hearts and think we are better than any other country, especially in technical and computer matters. Have we ever been, then, the time has passed, and it is vital that we get our heads together and try to regain our position of leadership. With the State, there are many and varied systems, as has been brought to the fore. The apocalyptic. They're not sure, and here we're looking for a new course, a policy that runs across every department. Perhaps in this case, we have too many little slippers, some who are just sheikhs or barons, who have never intended to take this position. That's why Pirata's proposal for a technical director of the state is worthy of all attention, and, as I have come to my talk earlier, read it with great interest in the Ministry of finance. This is precisely consistent with a project that we are about to begin, which is prior to the job vow of a better government. Much of the better government is computer communication, computer operations, computer programs, computer environment. There, however, we place, not electronic communication, but friendly communication with the public, i.e. that the public can enjoy their relationship with the government. So we are able to access the state data by harmonizing the interface by creating a single bioavailability in the entire state. That I think we can all work together, and that's why I thank them all. Councilmen who spoke up for sharing in this fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u36	Mr. President. As the U.S. Senate knows, the Ministry was given a report on the Food Institute, the important agency for us Icelanders. I thought it was very important to make this a Senate document in order to settle the matter at a council meeting. I think it's important to the community that we increase our understanding of the role, objectives, and purpose of the Food Institute. In particular, I consider the council a worthy place to open up that discussion, get objective discussions and information in the hall in order to try to get harmony about where we're going with the Agency. We will take it so that we will encourage it, support it, strengthen it, and learn from the mistakes and learn from the past, which have often been a tad of a time and a time. Then I'm not only talking about in the Food Agency, but also the Ministry itself. We who serve there need to understand what we can do better there. This is not only a Food Institute but also producers, there are some who are dealing with a Food Institute that needs to understand the purpose of the Agency. Of course, we know this from the so - called brown egg business, which was very extensive in the media until the end of 2016. At that time, two experts, Bjarni Snæbjörn Jónsson's executive adviser and Ólafur Oddgeirsson, were assigned to review the Agency. They were assigned to investigate the management, internal work, and work of the Agency and the use of food management and animal care. In both cases, the work and activities in similar European institutions were taken into account whenever possible. I know that members of Congress have done well in the way of the arrangement in Europe, and especially, I would say, it is important to look to Denmark and not to Norway. The purpose of this project and the report was to review the Agency's activities and make proposals for improvement where it was deemed necessary. They then returned the report at the end of March 2017, and we have been waiting for it to be discussed at the council. Of course, the importance of the Food Agency will be to ensure the safety of consumers and export interests of the nation, especially overrated. In my opinion, the report shows that the Agency is not able to fulfill all its legal duties because of the great pressures of the management and staff. Therefore, it is necessary to check that the Agency's funding is in accordance with the Agency's tasks. It's even me. To study within financial programmes, how I can set priorities for the limited financial resources that you have to discuss, how we can contribute to the rest of the Marine Research Institute and Food Organization. In addition, the main results of the report are that there is a management problem within the Agency. There is a general need for policy development in the role of the Agency and food management, and finally some aspects of the Food Monitoring Organization here will cause the problem, I will follow. The report also discusses specifically the brown egg's language and the lessons that can be learned from this subject. We must learn a lesson from this. The results include the basis for action programmes that require changes in the activities of the Agency so that they can serve as best they can. Because the role of the Agency is so important, I emphasized that this report would become a document and that it would be discussed here. There is tremendous interest in the future as food land in both marine and agricultural crops, under the clear, efficient surveillance here, that is transparent, and particularly beneficial to consumers as soon as the manufacturer's views are cared for, but also for market work, e.g. for Icelandic production. This development of market witnessing in foreign lands is staggering. Opportunities there for us Icelanders in the fishing field and agriculture field are very great, but only if we take care of doing our homework. Therefore, an institution like a Food Organization must be made available to carry out its role, and the role must be clear. As the report clearly shows, there are certain steps to take to strengthen the Food Organization. The emphasis of the government and the Food Organization needs to be adjusted by discussing highlights that may be vague. It needs to enable the Agency's managers to organize internal trends. It really needs to strengthen, improve, and strengthen the human resources government in the Agency. We at the Ministry need to support the Agency on that subject. We at the Ministry also need to examine ourselves. There's some evidence in the report that the Ministry must look very critically, be a little self - critical. You can take e.g. The brown-Englage. There were comments from the Food Agency to the Farmer Service on the eco-friendly agricultural activities. Nothing was done in it, indications were directed to the Ministry, and nothing was done. That's what we need to fix. It is not only the Food Institute, those who are members of the Ministry, but also the matter of taking a closer look. I see that the time I planned for my first round is running out of time. Our response at the Ministry was immediately, as the message was very clear, to strengthen the human resources government, to support the Agency, to keep it under control, and to let the Agency's staff know that we're on it. But we are not critical. We'll use the report to build up. What can we do at the Ministry? It is clear that we need to shape food policy in Iceland. There's no food policy in this country. I'm going this summer, at the latest in the fall, to put together a formal group, a food policy group designed to set down food policy for Iceland. This is how I react to the conclusions made by the news editors. What else is there? It is quite clear that the surveillance is complex. Monitoring is not necessarily efficient. It's not just about the Food Institute, it's about that. because of the local health care department, and I'm not criticizing that surveillance, it's complicated. We saw it in the brown egg business that the surveillance system served, e.g. not consumers, it did not serve consumers at all. We must then consider public, state, and rural society to sit down and inspect and take measures aimed at harmonizing surveillance. I've sat down with local leaders to set things straight. I know that they have since met with them as well as with health - care committee members. But to my knowledge it's absolutely clear that the system we're offering now does not come to the interests of consumers, let alone that it supports farmers and others to ensure safe production and surveillance. I think it's a big responsibility if we, states and societies, get to sit down and coordinate our surveillance. Are we talking about a central institution? One thing we must consider is that there must be one agency, such as a Food Institute in the South and then distribute branch offices far and wide across the country in order to simplify it, make it more efficient and simpler than it is today, just as I could in Norway and Denmark. This report cannot be passed by citizens and communities. We need to keep working for it, and that is what we will do. I come to see what else I think is important for us to do about the Agency, but, overall, this is an example of how to win things. My career predecessor set out this group knowing that there wouldn't be any kind of shiny movie. But we're supposed to use this to look into the future, to carry out the Agency, and to ensure effective monitoring so that, as food production countries, we can go forward to the future with our products in foreign markets. In order for us to do so, we need to keep everything straight with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers are excellent reviews on this matter and, like giving us a chance to discuss this report at the Hall of Congress. I'll say the highest words. Minister to see that it is very necessary to do so. Before I do this, I'd like to mention two things. One, a few things, tops. The minister came in. I'm glad to have a review of the position, review and strengthen the system we live in. I'm just a little worried about the wording, 'cause it's limited to the highest capital. A minister came in about strengthening the one - on - one thing thing, the Food Institute and the Cradle. I think we've just reached the point where we have to put more money on these issues. Then I'm glad it's to shape the Food Institute. However, in terms of consultation with local authorities for monitoring, I would like to draw special attention to the fact that already there is a bill on changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution in which rural areas are not at all satisfied with the changes in monitoring and many of those who speak of the decision to pollute activities being made directly from their societies to the State. So I encourage the cooperation that will be done on balance bases and not be the cause of delinquency of rural society and monitoring. The other thing I wanted to touch before I go to the points of this report is, and I wish there were more of them. Ministers, secretary of finance, who has the funds to manage, and especially the Minister of Education and Culture, that if any example shows us how important independence and powerful the media are, it's about Brown eggs: the management of the media is extremely important. We followed up on the way the Kingdom Radio was doing it a tremendous part, keeping the rulers and the system on it, wherever it was. I'm glad the reporter Tryggvi Master Aðalbjörnsson didn't get the award for his coverage. We are to keep up what is well done and take to heart whether we can do better to support the media in order to maintain our role in our life. As to the contents of this report, there are many benefits. She's going over it. V.E.G. A minister did well over things that need to be considered. The MAST team, the hardware relationship, the Ministry. V.E.G. The minister did all right. I can only agree with her words on that subject. It is necessary to explain more clearly between administrative factors, who is responsible for each, in order to make the follow-up clear. Much of the information in this report deals with the situation as it was before the legal environment was changed. The report makes clear how these adjustments have improved, in order to explain some things. I think it's also about a certain attitude in the politics. I've come to things that are related to some kind of surveillance since I've been on the Environment and Health Committee a long time ago, I guess that's going down for 20 years. Ever since then, the attitude has appeared and must have appeared before, which is spoken of the surveillance industry, professional life, politicians in the political right wing, talking public surveillance down. As if it were some kind of surveillance industry, some monster that is burdensome in the entire open market. We repeatedly see the need for monitoring. We need to keep up - to - date, and we have much to consider. One of them is the financing of MAST, i.e. The amount of money that a professional life itself pays for. This may be as suggested in the report. But the other is that we, as governments and those who keep the money of the Kingdom, apply the view that a strong and good surveillance for consumers is necessary. It's our duty to strengthen it as much as we can. A respectable president. Now it's my clock going up and not down, and because I'm turning down a linear time, I'm not worried about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u38	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that there was a preparatory session of talks between spokesmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u39	Then I'm starting to walk on time...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u40	This happens when it happens. A senator walks during his partner's speaking class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u41	Then I'll thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u42	A respectable president. (b) How do we know that Jehovah's Witnesses have been deceived by Satan's world? Who Is Responsible? This is the title of draft: an article written last year when one of the biggest scandals of later years regarding consumer protection and animal protection came to the surface. I was referring to the deception used by the Icelandic consumers for years to purchase so - called eco-friendly eggs, where animal travel was brought to rest, such as TV audiences were used to get to know each other. Many hesitated and criticized the Food Institute for a remnant layer and a softbed in dealing with brown egg ehf. and for being reluctant to turn over the media data that came up on this issue. Finally, on March 27th, the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation had an all - out report published. and is our coverage right now. There are two challenges that the Agency faces. First, that she cannot meet all her legal obligations and that stress is high, that long - term illness is frequent, and signs of fatigue and coldness are seen among employees. This is of particular interest in the fact that in discussions about financial programmes discussed these days, the Agency is lacking in its own opinion 140 million in order to increase the number of employees and address these problems. The second particular challenge mentioned here is that a string of strings were not fused so that the whole and image of the Agency would not be good. A second part of the report, an internal benefit at ◯, reviews key points that need to be considered on the current status and activities of the Food Agency. It says underneath the title and emphasis of the president's permission: ▪ There is no overall government policy on food management in the country (food policy). The monitoring is performed by two sources, i.e. MAST, on the other hand, and in the health care of the local community. Considering that the HES is divided into ten independent parties, with the Commission of each sector, it can in fact be said that 11 members of this monitoring. Authors have made it clear that this arrangement has a number of problems, causing problems and inconsistencies in the implementation of surveillance. A comparison of food management in neighboring Iceland revealed that the overall situation of food policy is available, as well as that the trend has been toward bringing food control to one hand. Away from this, it was observed that vague policy and vision in this area make it more difficult to define the extent and effectiveness, which is once again the basis for combining government, surveillance and the Agency's expectations on what would be desirable for food management. We suggest that this type of policy will be attacked with a broad consultation of stakeholders, but also with the following projects that are important to consider that already: Accepting stakeholders with the model MAST bill [...] Plan out a discussion between the Ministry and MAST on the role and focus of the operation that will become a guide to the shape and implementation of policy and goals. This project involves the coordination and interaction between the MAST and the health monitoring of your community. Create the need for space to work with policy makers in individual fields involved in key workers to distribute ownership and to ensure a solidarity of the tasks needed to achieve the progress of policy. [...] Work systematically through the introduction of existing MIASTs so that there will be an understanding and solidarity of the state, and if it becomes an important guide for emphasis and approach to activities and services. Strengthen the production and sharing of information on activities, business and progress in creating a solidarity and a sense of responsibility to the role and effectiveness of the Agency. Other suggestions are given on page 19. 40, followed by a number of activities such as cooperation with the Ministry, policy, financing, pollination rate, the practicality of the Food Institute, which is especially viewed as ISO standard. Communicators, procedure procedures, forced operations, re-education and maintenance education, animal doctors' licenses, and so on. A respectable president. Let's go back to the past and look at the background of the Food Organization. For good reason, a historian stands here in a pita. The EEA's food fields and the food fields of the Fish Labs were combined under the signs of the Food Agency in 2008. Food agencies are under the Department of Business and Development and are acting by law No. 80/2005. Although the law has served for nine years, it is referred to in 21 different laws and to more than 300 regulations in connection with its activities and activities. The activities of the Agency have increased over the years. On the website of MAST, she says, with permission from the President: ▪ In order to contribute to the well - being and well - being of animals, health of plants and safety, health and food. From the beginning, food - based organizations have been severely criticized, especially by farm members. Have the media often discussed matters in this regard. A government review took the Agency's activities to the contrary and returned a more thorough report to the Council in November 2013. It suggests that the Agency needs a code of laws that clearly define its role, tasks, management, and so forth. In addition to what is asked, if food control in Iceland will not be more efficient, more efficient, and more efficient if it will be combined in one hand. Mr. President. It all sounds very similar, as in the large report we are considering right now. It also shows that funding must follow the legal tasks that MIAST is required to perform, as well as which the Ministry needs to better define the commitments between them and the Agency. Two and a half years later, in April 2016, the Government's review of a follow-up report made. It revealed that the Ministry had done nothing to respond to the tip. Sometime in February, I think I was, took a silent leave of the council and severely criticized how little was done with a report made by the State Accounting and made this special statement, i.e. the 2013 and 2016 follow-up reports. You see, it took a little display to reflect that heavy load, that was the brown egg case that came up in November of last year. Nothing was done with the reports up to that point. That's very critical. A respectable president. Then I come to the million - dollar question: Who is responsible? Of course, a person who abuses animal responsibility and none else is responsible. It seems to me, though, that some of the Ministry failed. If the General would have made a decision to establish an overall food control policy and provide a comprehensive set of guidelines for the Food Agency and its projects, e.g. By applying the 2013 State Review report, we would probably not be discussing this institution right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u43	Mr. President. I'm glad we've arrived to discuss the fine reviews provided in a report on the activities of the Food Agency. I want to go back to the beginning, just like what I saw. paritaprevir Einar Brynjólfsson did here, and he explained why we have come to the place where we are now in discussion about the important organization involved. First, let us see how important the establishment of a Food Institute is. It is our real key to markets. No less. It is essential that we offer our products, our production, primarily in the field of food. The existence of this institution, a agricultural agency, was put together from many small institutions as if taken into the establishment of the Department of Agriculture at the time. I think I know quite well the history of this institution and the leading force that when a agricultural institution was formed and then when that institution was transformed into an increased role in the Food Organization. Simply put, in effect, we may have been creating an institution, and once we've reached one phase, it was in fact out of date and we've added so much on the desk of this institution that we never had time to build up and get into a fixed direction what tactics we were going to use, what we would use to do, what we were and how we were going to reach our goals. I think that's the story of this fine institution in a nutshell. We have been very careful about sweeping up projects, establishing new legislation, creating new rules, and then planning to follow through with the Agency. Then we will be left with two main points, which this fine report frames so nicely: Food agencies do not cover all their legal duties and pressures and are busy with the management and staff; and secondly, the Agency does not work properly as one jointly. A picture of both surveillance and in the community as a whole is not good enough. This is the project that the good news editors have here so clearly that we have to attack. Just as I said in the beginning: Food agencies are one of the most fundamental agencies in Iceland that have food producers. The key to the market. Then there are the interests of the Food Institute. The laws and rules for food from the animal kingdom and in their vastest forms, animal travel and food products, protection of the environment, especially animal society, the control of animal diseases of any kind, whether due to the import and export of animals and animal products or diseases that can spread and affect domestic and wild animals, general animal protection for the well-being and treatment of animals, the basis for food safety, e.g. by not passing on infection or poisoning to people from food sources and by meeting the requirements of consumers and other public requirements. Food agencies are an international market for living animals and food, either from fishing soil or from agriculture or from other products. It is the basis for creating access to international markets and to a trustworthy surveillance provider who builds confidence in Icelandic food production and has a wide range of relationships with comparable people, not only in EEA countries, but throughout the world. The implementation of agricultural contracts must be smooth, ensuring that payment is in accordance with the rules and guidelines that are required for farmers to have contracts. As we draw it together, we see how much interest is involved in the activities of the Food Organization and how irreverently important it is that it is both efficient and has confidence in its function. Thus, a food management agency plays a fundamental role in our community. There are many suggestions for improving the report discussed here. They may be considered to be quite reasonable, as can be discussed in the long - awaited suggestions. The proposals have to do with all the activities of the Agency, as well as the Ministry. They also involve the Parliament in order to have a clearer total law on the Agency, as it were. A speaker before, Einar Brynjólfsson, was doing so well. I agree with him. In fact, the bill of the material is in preparation but has not been identified. Many changes have been made in the regular work of the Agency. The biggest change is new overall animal well-being laws, consistent regulations and procedures on the pressures of fines and other items, as it were, that were not fully completed until the end of 2015, so full efficiency could not be said. I think it's important that we review it, especially in the light of the possibility that the brown-eggs were rolling that heavy load. The talk that led to this report was dedicated primarily to the work programme and to the legislation on animal well - being and to the continuation of the procedure was not completed until late 2015. In some respects, this may explain that if we had had had had those rules and procedures ready sooner, we might have acted quickly in this matter. Since the start of the Agency's work for the early decade, many projects have been added. At times, it has been thought of as many of them as possible. A general body of funds has made significant contributions to the operation. Moreover, those under its supervision pay hundreds of millions for monitoring, or nearly a billion dollars, of the total resources of the Agency. There's huge financial interests behind it, which I think is right for us to pay careful attention to how it is developed in reviewing laws on the Food Institute and how we build such a budget that the Agency finances. I can tell you about the experience that it was extremely transparent work and difficult to study an institution's plan that was supposed to be logical support for registration at any given time. I learned another job that I accepted over a decade ago and began to get acquainted with discussions about agriculture and food production in other countries, such as the United States. Denmark, mainly food - producing countries, as well as Iceland's population, is bringing an end to the world and to the environment in which animal travel and animal traffic talk are taking place. We are following that discussion. It presents us with many challenges and challenges. Many farmers find it difficult to cope. But it's very important, though, that we approach her with the right tools and equipment. This report, especially the third part, has much to do with animal travel and food management. It is in my opinion that it is in the most striking way possible for individual nations to reach this important work. V.E.G. Ministers stopped here with countries like Norway and Denmark. I can agree with her that we should look at them. I pay particular attention to the report on Denmark's Food Monitoring and the proposed changes that are now being discussed on the basis of some of the monitoring. It is reported that 25% of this monitoring may be considered for the purposes of extracurricular use. The talk about animal travel and food production is fragile, but it is essential. Therefore, I believe that the report has many practical suggestions on how other nations conduct such supervision that we can easily acquire. I'm not only inclined to look to Denmark or Norway in that sector and to refer specifically to Latvia in the case that is so obvious, because we can say that we are dealing with problems that are dedicated to other strands because we are taking over and putting up on a massive rule, a small nation who has a relatively few to live up to a rule of order that is quite appropriate in millions of communities. One of the roles of the Food Agency is animal service. Following the large system changes that took place here a few months ago, veterinary services have caused some concern for an animal owner. I think the part and when preparing for it - and I'll admit that I recognize the criticism that was shown during the preparation. I helped to criticize the preparation, saying that we did not put the veterinary practice together with other animal activities, such as the one doing the animal service. Agricultural guidance service. I'd especially like to direct it to the highest. Minister to consider the time when she begins working out the changes to be made in this report. The Agency has to work much more with people. In particular, I refer to what is stated in the report, that the Agency is not adequately coordinated and its image is not good enough. It must simply correct the lack of consistent surveillance throughout the country. This is unfair, making it normal for the Agency's reputation to be damaged. Then you need to organise with stakeholders for improvements where needed. Of course, interests are not meant to govern the surveillance in themselves, but it is more likely to work with them on its implementation, answering questions and helping to keep things in order. Most people want to be clear, especially if they are helped to get there. That is why I also stress that the Agency expands its instruction and cooperation with stakeholders in the changes necessary to follow this excellent summary of our talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u44	V.E.G. President. Today, we're discussing a report on food management by the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister. The purpose of the report was to review the activities of MAST and make suggestions for improvement where considered necessary. When it comes to food production and handling, it is obvious that there are widespread interests and diversity. Under these circumstances, the protection of Iceland's environment and the well - being of animals in general as well as food security can ensure smooth trade and access to the foreign food markets. Therefore, MAST activities are part of a very important European monitoring work on the production and handling of food, which is the basis for Iceland's ability to care for its duties, including participation in the joint market of the EEA. When the MAST activities began in the present form, 75 are employed by the Agency, with about 90 now active workers. Only part of this increased work is due to the activities related to the monitoring role of MAST. The emphasis is on examining whether the number of projects has been increased in some ways and the necessary resources to care for those to whom it is due. However, there is some evidence to indicate that the Agency is overreached, as it has been seen here today, a work ethic, a working force, and relationships abroad. The report includes: read the following from a so-called status analysis, with permission of the president: ▪ IT IS not enough to care for all its legal duties and pressures, and there are busy with executives and employees. There are many signs of fatigue and even coldness of long - term stress-induced illness in the operation. The Agency does not work properly as one cohesive unit. A picture of both surveillance and in the community as a whole is not good enough. If the one here is supposed to be a farmer, by the way, I can confirm that even though communication with MAST is all right, I've heard from farmers that in certain cases they seem to be distrusted by the Agency. This situation is not good for farmers or MAST. As you read the report, you cannot avoid thinking that the internal organization of the Agency may not be the best choice. A government agency cannot be designed to do what is rightfully planned for it, and it does not have a good relationship with those to whom it is to serve and to care for. V.E.G. President. I welcome the highest words. A minister of her intention to initiate food policy preparations. But as the situation is today, there is no total government policy on food control. The monitoring is on the hands of two parties, the MAST and the health monitoring of your community. Keeping in mind that the Health Organization is divided into ten independent parties with the local Commission, it can be said that its 11 parties are actually being observed. According to one report, their research revealed that the system is subject to a number of problems and causes problems and inconsistencies with monitoring. Both institutions perform similar tasks with well - educated staff who have similar experience. In some cases, there has been an overlap between MAST and health care, and the Ministry has come to determine which party is responsible for monitoring. This has certainly caused the dissatisfaction of those who enjoy the ministry and who have undermined confidence and confidence in the system. This may be improved by setting a basic food policy, such as it is found in neighboring countries and moving food control to one hand. Practicality and practicality must be the requirement for the development of MIAST and other monitoring institutions. But from this report it can be noted that lack of funding and power to do it inhibits the purpose of it. I wondered how the government will deal with this when it is made up of 2% of the partners. MAST's work is based on the knowledge of her employees and on their experience. The report shows that human resources and the interaction of human resources and culture are too little attention, but at the same time, MAST is highly dependent on individuals working there, especially experts, and it is not appropriate to lose them. So I'd like to allow myself to wonder if it's not the time to hire a human resources officer. In fact, it was shown in the case of the highest degree. Ministers to work on human resources, for here we are talking about a key agency that is of utmost importance to us as a food - producing nation. I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u45	A respectable president. I'm glad we have a report on the assessment of the activities of the Food Agency. In fact, I feel sorry for the results, as did others who have spoken here. As far as I can see, the lack of policy, lack of coordination, and control of very many people has made it impossible for us to form a good account of early production and implementation of animal products, or the monitoring of retails, restaurants, and cafeterias. As in the situation, these agents are being monitored to 11 parties. Besides, a vision in the category of languages is very vague, so it will be very difficult to define the magnitude and success of the surveillance. They are the small statements about the world's best and cleanest meats and the best agricultural products if we cannot verify them in any way. If we fail to monitor the early production and production of animal products, it would be futile to breast-feed on the quality of the products. There are also some issues related to current monitoring that have been harmful to consumers and should be considered mainly the brown-egg matter, as noted, which led to the evaluation done under a good consideration. Also, the duties of various animal attractions have been repeated, and it has long since been time for us to fail. It is also of interest to me that the monitoring of the early production and processing of animal products at Food Institute is under the Department of Professional Services. In particular, it is discussed that by separating surveillance from the Ministry, it is not necessarily normal for observation to take place within the Ministry of Education, as well as to whether it is better with consumer protection at all levels. It will be interesting to observe the discussions on this subject and the results in the event of a legal policy. The report also shows that it is important to reorganize various procedures, cooperation within the house and outside, communication and cooperation with other stakeholders, to name something. Then there's a lack of human resources. In my opinion, it is very important to consider human resources, which is based on man - made culture and knowledge. The acidic working environment with unexplained channels and incorrect emphasis without links to stakeholders is unlikely to be effective. The report suggests that the government's policy will be developed as a whole. I'm glad you're here. A clear policy with measurable targets is the first step toward improving Iceland's performance and competitiveness in the field of food production, animal travel, and the rest of Europe. I would like to encourage the level of all the interest stakeholders involved in making policy as good as possible and will definitely take on the factors that are relevant to the aspects that are going to be covered. In this way, we increase the value of various agricultural products, improve the quality of the animal route, and ensure maximum success. I'm celebrating the emphasis. Minister of this seminar class in the preceding debate on policy and plans to support this important institution and to hope that our country will be responsible and progressive for future food land, as I have often discussed. We all have opportunities to do so in Iceland, even better and more opportunities than any other country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u46	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking you for this report and the discussion. After the situation with the company, Brown raised questions about whether there was more deception, whether there were more deceptions, and consumers would not be allowed to see the whole picture in other food companies. We consumers rely on the surveillance and strength to protect us from such deceptions and the high regard for animal protection. The results of the report show that authors believe that in the procedure on brown eggs from the Food Agency there have been weaknesses in the management of the company in a number of specific areas that are important to learn from. It is noted that procedures were vague and unsure of the follow-up of comments made year after year without any response to them until many years later. It is necessary to have the highest level of care. Minister to these matters and the highest. A consumer minister will agree on measures to improve matters. The report also shows that national risk assessment and risk assessment are an important cornerstone of food monitoring and that the Rapporteurs will receive certain measures. On the basis of a risk assessment, there will be a clearer understanding of the facts taken into the RMP and those who are not able to choose which truth they are taking as a reference. All European countries use this system to some extent, but Iceland has not created the whole system. A formal risk assessment has only been performed in the individual case, but only in very rare cases a risk assessment has been performed. According to food law, risk assessment committees acting regardless of scientific assessment should be put in place. However, this is not done. It must be cleaned up. It is fundamental that the Rapporteurs are free in a professional decision making. On this basis, it is based, in fact, on the other hand. Put your trust in them. Food management partners must be professional independent. It's unacceptable. It has to make sure that the field monitors have sufficient support to follow through on difficult matters. The report notes that in at least one of the control countries has been signed by staff in a special declaration of independence and interest. In Iceland this is important, since there is a great deal of distance between people, and it is not uncommon for the surveillance provider and monitors to be recognized outside the field. The small acquaintance community in Iceland offers corrupt traps if formalities are not defined. Formal squares and good management are even more important in smaller communities where everyone knows them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u47	Mr. President. Iceland and I love our food production. It's the best idea in the world that has many, if not most of us, when we have Icelandic food, produced in the best of our circumstances, free, well-gained animals in our clean, wonderful nature, etc. Here at the General Assembly, we also have a regular discussion of food production and food security and other activities related to this important work that is so dear to us. The labour agreement, which was controversial for a certain reason, shows that the product agreement, which included: that we are as a nation willing to spend much of our food production, as there are many opportunities, both within the country and outside. How, then, do events such as those that took place in the recent report, the so - called brown - edge issue? Even so: What can be done to ensure proper, reasonable, and timely prevention and then to respond to controls and governments? How can consumers be sure that these matters are right for us? Rather, how can such promises be fulfilled? We need to ask ourselves a lot of questions from this report. And we need answers. It is not readily available that a food clinic cannot fulfill its legal obligation because of the pressures of managers and employees. It is not okay for the Agency's policy and organization to hold the activities for cleaning, the processes not working, nor the Agency to be funded when considering legal projects. The report also shows that the food clinic and health care departments do not work properly together and that representatives speak cross - references to which solutions they provide for themselves. This knot simply needs to be solved. As noted in the report, Denmark is looking to appoint a private reconnaissance panel, including a private member. to perform the tasks. We have this warrant, too. By permission of the president, we say: In Denmark the target is about 25% of opinions at first. This procedure requires standardization and good definitions and is limited to data collection. Such persons are not authorized to make decisions on the basis of opinions. It is also a priority for the private person to have a professional value...................................................................................................................................... Then Danir will have it so that interest ties are forbidden, i.e. viewers must not have a direct interest in ensuring professional independence. Instead of paying surveillance, the competent authority will pay the contractor the job back to ensure a interest point. That's a question, topv. Minister, if this isn't something that's worth considering. Then, at the end, I want to refer to a job with high expectations in this country, and that's the fish fire. I specifically mention this because the fish farm management is in the Food Institute. There, we certainly cannot afford to make a mistake. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President and the highest. Minister. This report is a good input into issues we always need to be alert to, as well as to ensure the health and health and well - being of animals. There we have enormous and varied interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u48	A respectable president. We'll discuss the needs and the necessary report, which is a reaction to the brown egg case, which was made up of Castlight's coverage at the end of the year. The issue was certainly a great offense over monitoring as consumer protection and animal care were exposed. The case also served as a reminder of the need for monitoring in our community and of the need to strengthen the media further in its research and maintenance role. This fine report gives some interesting details. The things that I find most interesting are the ones that are subject to the administrative organisation's position, the information of the government, and the same as the status of animal traffic in Iceland. All of this tragic brown-English is also a judgment against consumers' status and unfortunately over monitoring food production in our society. The work of the Food Agency is very extensive, as this report shows, and has the Agency to form a follow-up of six thousand sources. During the past five years, the Agency's activities have increased rapidly, with rapid changes in the scope of the Agency's activities. Therefore, it may be thought seriously about the funding of the Agency and whether a minister sees it using real increases in funds for this important organisation to provide more fully for the animal health and animal control projects and the animal well-being and the activities involved in consumer protection, education and information. The report also clearly indicates that governments have to step down in a far more decisive way than in this series, as indicated by both reports of improved internal activity by the Food Agency and then in the review of Iceland's Animal Protection Association, which I would like to avoid very shortness of speech here, and is designed to make food monitoring and monitoring more efficient and more efficient than at present. In this context there are suggestions for improvement, to form cooperation with the Ministry, to strengthen food management, to animal health, to animal health, and to plant health, a much better explanation is needed. The management procedures of the Food Agency for forced operations are unclear. They need to be explained much more. And as noted in the European Animal Protection Association, increasing the number of workers in the Food Institute is considered to be responsible for working directly towards the well-being of animals where the available human resources are not sufficient to ensure minimum animal travel in the country. This also rhymes with the emphasis staff of the Food Agency laid on important re- and maintenance education. This must also be supplemented with both the private and the public educational materials and, of course, ensure re- and continuous staff training. In addition to information policy, I find very interesting the suggestions presented in the National Animal Protection Association of Iceland that the relationship is that the original manufacturers should not be used by their names if they are exposed to ill treatment of animals, ending employment for consumers and public goods, as well as for the evil treatment of animals protected by the law. This can hardly be clearer, and hopefully it will be corrected. I'm the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers to demonstrate the support of animal travel to consumers and to the more efficient and more intensive monitoring of food production in a real way. Not only is getting things started and preparing, although it is good and good as far as it goes, but it is by real action. Food production and animal travel monitoring are not and need not be complicated, but it is necessary if we want Iceland into our modern region and want to live with the big words and claims that Icelandic food production is by far the most pure in the world. This good report and the review and suggestions it offers can be the first step in that subject and give me the highest encouragement. Minister to action, for real action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u49	A respectable president. I want to like others to start by thanking you very much for having this review done. The first signal is to face the problem and recognize it. It is not always enough to create new institutions, delegate projects, and then trust that this will work. Here we have a very important group of subjects, as has been shown many times during the discussion today, and he must be a good student. I think everyone agrees, especially the consumers of the country, to want to have a strong food and animal surveillance, animal health monitoring, and so forth, as well as those under surveillance. They want it to be there. However, they can have an opinion of how it is being carried out and how it works best. I think a lot of work is ahead of working on the results of this report and the rest of this case. Although the report has been launched on a particular subject, there are many factors in which it shows that the matter is very complex, that there are many factors, so it cannot be done well because the focus is so scattered. We need to think about it, and that's why I'd like to talk in general about this at the government and ask for those who are going to do this work to see the matter more clearly, not just this case or the subject of this Ministry. It may then be appropriate to divide a portion of the work materials into place and strengthen other government monitoring measures or to move them more to sight stations, as the report indicates in Denmark. When an institution cannot do its job well, the Ministry will end up working at the office. The issue will always be about who is responsible. I know my former job as a policeman that when we had a problem, most of the time went to help the sufferer decide whether it was official and then who was responsible for solving the case. That's where I think it's relevant too. Those under this supervision need to be monitored by the Food Institute, by the Health Organization, at Work, by the construction authorities, and by the fire department, four sources. Each and every one pays their fees. We should be able to interact with these parties, although this is between recruitment and other public bodies, to make better use of the funds and to be strong in monitoring, as others are strong in policy, decision-making, and follow-up. Then I'd like to remind you that we have county officials in many parts of the country, as well as health monitoring, and various promising stations. That's what we need to look at when we get into all this. On top of that, the producers are often on their own. How can this be done with products and so on? We need to decide how to set the priorities of these projects and how to separate some of the food policy, monitoring factors, and different factors, where they are best, so that we can get as strong a focus on the goals we want to achieve, and how to use the resources and services that are best handled, across all the public and the monitoring agencies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u50	A respectable president. Thank you for your report and for those who have participated in it. I also want to thank the Minister specifically for its clearness about immediately starting work in the summer on the shape of food policy. I thought we were the highest. Ministers have a very pleasant discussion of opportunities in the production of Icelandic food. In fact, it says that there is no total government policy on these important jobs. We're a major food manufacturer. In this regard, we are dealing with a Food Institute, which is not only under the control of agriculture and animals on the land as if those who have not studied the matter but also about monitoring all food production in the country and the administrations in it. It has been discussed that the surveillance is done by two sources, the MAST, the Food Organization, and the community's health monitoring. This has led to certain problems that I think are just very important for the minister to make better progress. This report does not necessarily say exactly how to do this, so it must be part of the work that the minister is now taking to shape a policy in this regard. When I was a social minister at the Ministry of Health, there was a considerable work that involved the monitoring and management of the local community services and how to ensure that an institution involved in specific administrative projects would not likewise have the same effect on the work she was doing, i.e. In this case, she would be giving direction to the level of government and on specific tasks for this, but the assignment was to be supervised. The conclusion of that work was to suggest the establishment of a special Ministry Department that is a legal law in the administration board so that the minister would not have to bring a bill into the council but would have a chance to set up a government agency that would hear if necessary. During the financial discussion, I attended several meetings with a branch organization. You could hear from their spokesmen that they were worried that they were going to bring the health monitoring away from their locals. Another project to monitor short - term rent to tourists was then identified as the intention of recruiting one employee in the capital area who should be monitored by hundreds or even thousands of rented apartments. Here we are talking about hundreds of companies who are doing this work, so it is very important to consider that this is actually being done as well as possible. Time runs from a man here, but I have to say, there have been so many legal adjustments in this field over the past few years, which are very clearly reflected in this report, that humans have been fully concerned with the legislation that we have created. Much of the European Union has come along, and it takes over, but I also think it's very important to make sure, we all here agree that the benefits of Icelandic food are the best. [[The president calls.]] At that time, both management and monitoring will have to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u51	Mr. President. In the beginning, we should thank you for this report, although its motive may not be good. It is clear that the Agency plays a very important role in the country and the country and must ensure that it supports good laws and, in particular, has a well - established environment, including good management conditions. for consumer protection, food management, animal health and animal health. It will then be an uncalled important role, which will hopefully become even more important as time passes, and it will provide Icelandic food access to markets abroad. The report says, with the permission of the president: As previously said, MAST activities are part of a very important pan-European monitoring work on the production and management of food, which is the basis for Iceland's ability to carry out its duties and thus to participate in the joint market of the EEA. Thus, the MAST work on the basis of European legislation and the trust both in the country and abroad is of utmost importance. It is my hope, therefore, that this report and discussion will be made to the pavilion that the Allied Council will place careful overall laws and that thereafter the Agency will be able to provide sufficient funds for its role. You see, me and the Icelanders have enough, I think, that laws and rules are one arm, but follow up, so everything else. The managers of the Food Institute say that it is a strong professional, that governments have a lot of knowledge, but they lack human resources to care for all of the duties of the Agency. Her mission is to increase, and in recent years only, for example, have been the case. Adds to fish farming projects without having the funds to care for them. The fish fire is growing on an enormous scale. It also goes by the executives of the Agency that it is really hard to follow up with that sector because the decisions and decisions of the agency are constantly charged with, so it's complicated and it costs money. The authors also discuss this quite well and say that there is good reason to consider whether the 75 - to - 90 increase in workers has remained fully in touch with an ever - increasing role, including the growing number of workers assigned to do so. as soon as it is time to complete legal action. As mentioned earlier, the staff is under extreme pressure, and the work does not seem to be compatible enough. We just can't go on like this. You see, consumers in both the country and outside have become very demanding. Whether they are considering the cost of a successful journey or the published manufacturing process of products derived from natural protection or for other reasons, the minimum requirement is that they can assume that the product is what it is said to be, not a counterfeit product that fails to live up to expectations and may be paid for even more expensive because it is advertised in a way. The consequences of betraying consumers and violating animals or in some other way demeaning the credibility of Icelandic food production must be such that producers are not only the result of doing so but also the feeling of it. During the discussion earlier, why? paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, former president of the local community, said that MAST was our key to the markets. I think there's a lot of things in those words. Food production is very important to us, and it contains enormous opportunities so that we must not give up in ensuring the Agency's desired working conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u52	A respectable president. I appreciate very good and upbuilding discussions, but I must say, on account of certain recommendations, that I am not able to get anything out of this relatively new minister of this trade to look for guilt in the past for my predecessors. Rather, let us look to the future with the report and what we are doing now in the Ministry to build up what may include. Yeah. Councilmen have established their speeches. The food policy will be started this year. Simple or consistent monitoring is extremely important. The community cannot swallow the fact that it is being taken away, but it is not about that, it is about building a strong surveillance system, a powerful agency that ensures safety for consumers, guarantees us access to markets, and that we are simply trustworthy. Some have mentioned here that investigators and professionals must be independent. I totally agree with that. This has to do with the credibility of the Agency, so it is important that this message be transmitted. I'd also like to state that in the Ministry, there is a three-man programme manager working with the executives and staff of MAST to ensure that the tips are being followed in the report. In terms of total legislation on the activities of MAST, the same group will be working on a bill that we hope will be able to discuss right here in the fall. There are a number of monitors down there, but I think it's important for a man to know that surveillance is important to help. It is to help consumers and provide a market security to ensure the access to foreign markets that we have been told about, but then the system must be built up so that it is not complicated, but is efficient and simple and that it is consistent between administrations. They're calling for a clear setting. We're gonna make sure of her. As a result of this upbuilding and careful discussion, I am better off in the ministry myself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u53	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of services to disabled people with a great deal of support. The bill is designed to replace existing laws on the affairs of disabled people, No. 59/1992. The primary objective of the change is to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People in Icelandic legislation. Along with this bill, a bill is proposed to legalize the Community Services Act. The bill is based on the work of a team appointed by the then social and housing minister in 2014 and was designed to review laws on the affairs of disabled people and community service laws. The service group represented the stakeholders of the user services of these two law columns, including disabled persons and older citizens, as well as members of the local social directors and members of the local Ministry. In the open history of the summer of 2016, the earliest projections were placed on the Ministry website and received many comments. Then, in October 2016, the group returned their proposals. The key changes and details of the bill are: The bill suggests that the law's name will be a law on the service of disabled persons with a great need for support and that it replaces current laws on the affairs of disabled people. The reason for this name is to emphasize that this is a service law and that it is intended to meet individuals who are more useful than to be met in a general way. It is suggested that public service to disabled persons require laws on local social services, while a bill is presented to legalize their legal requirements. Is general support services made higher under the head and suggested that the limit be approximately we need 10 breakdown15 hours of service per week. The bill's objective and definition set out in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Then the bill takes place in a gray area that has formed between laws on the affairs of disabled persons and laws on the subjects of the elderly, where a person who is 67 years old may have the right to both laws. Ministers of Management and Control have been revised and strengthened in the bill, including so that a minister can now determine whether social rules have adequate improvement. It is then stated that a minister should grant patents to those who have the primary objective of providing services to the disabled. The bill insists that the disabled have the right to a variety of services that meet their specific needs. It is, in fact, there. Find new references to user contracts and user-controlled personal assistance, NAP, as well as individual service plans and service team rules. This involves an important act of justice. The NPA directive is being carried out on the basis of the proposal for user-controlled personal assistance provided from 2011 to the end of 2016. The bill contains some new references to services performed in disabled children and in the families of those in the field of leisure care for disabled students and, on the other hand, for children with well - integrated mental and developmental disorders. The regulations on employment matters are presented in line with the state's will and rural society's plans for the future business of disabled persons, dated September 28, 2015, which is based on the policy that employment matters for disabled persons should be done in the general way. It is then stipulated that a consultation committee should be agreed on the affairs of disabled persons and suggested that a minister be legally authorized to propose a proposal to the Council for a resolution on a treatment plan in the affairs of disabled people. The terms on judicial matters have also been revised. V.E.G. President. I've been explaining the fundamental changes in the bill. It contains a very important compensation for the services offered to disabled persons. It also introduces the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people who are in service. I believe with this bill, if it becomes legal, if we are taking a big step, and very important to fulfill the terms of the agreement, and to fulfill the duties that we have undertook with the signing and validation of it. I also believe that it is important to assume that the bill was working with a large team of disabled people and that solidarities have been achieved in many of the major issues involved by the bill. So, I'm willing to propose, tops. President, the bill will be after this discussion points to what. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u54	Madam President. In 1st. 1 1. The bill assures us that a person should be entitled to personal, user - controlled assistance if he or she has a great and persistent need for assistance and service. This bill, as well as the national financial programme, discusses the importance of legalizing laws on user - controlled personal assistance to ensure that disabled persons are in control of their lives, to increase their independence, and thereby to the ability to live independent lives. According to the current bill, the project will be funded in part by the contributions of the federal funds to the countryside, with a number of contracts laid down in the bill. For example, only 80 treaties will be made in 2018. This puts some kind of greeting on the right to personal assistance. Then you need to ask: "I think it's the highest. " Ministers, it's okay to say goodbye to how many disabled individuals get to live their own lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u55	Madam President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. I prefer not to think of this as a greeting, but one of the biggest problems in the legality of the user-controlled assistance is just the total number of contracts that can be negotiated, and the cost that countries and rural communities could have as a result, which has been one of the main reasons why the service was not taken earlier than the actual legalization. We chose to go this way, that instead of leaving a considerable uncertainty about each overall subject, we would cover the maximum number of contracts that would be rising each year, so that we would have fully introduced this resource over four years, considering the potential scope of the evaluation or plans. I think that there is a much more positive way to walk in this path, though it certainly would have been better to open it completely. However, the cost of uncertainty had to be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u56	Madam President. It is believed that there are 175 contracts needed, as the situation is today. This bill won't be a reality until 2022. Then it is indeed happening to disabled persons, for it is clear that not all disabled individuals will have access to these agreements. I also wanted to talk to you about 1st. The bill states that in carrying out the law, the international commitments established by the Icelandic government should be carried out, in particular, by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. While it is a positive step to ensure that the law will always be clear to the agreement, without legally establishing a contract by the United Nations, is the right of the public to enjoy the human rights that the agreement holds unsecured. The contract was signed on March 30, 2007. Now ten years later, he has not been legalized in Icelandic courts. A number of people have recommended the legalisation of the contract, including the European Union. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, why hasn't been that way yet? Very much. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for the UN's legalized agreement on the rights of disabled people?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u57	Madam President. That is exactly one of the main purposes of this law and bill to change the law on community social services to validate and bind the laws of the United Nations Convention on the issues of disabled people. That's the end point of this law here. I think we're going very far on that kind of thing. We are to guide the terms of the agreement, ensure the disabled to live independently. I think we're taking a very important step in that direction. Surely, though, we too should take pride in continuing that course and make sure that we work in the spirit of the agreement at all fronts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u58	Madam President. I thank the Supreme Minister for his presentation and prefer to direct my counterto the subject of Article 40. The bill we're discussing with the Minister's Regulation. For 40th. you will find seven paragraphs that have the legal rights of the Minister to set up regulations for further implementation of these laws, including the follow-up and day-to-day fines of rural society, the conditions for working together, self-employers and other private personnel who are going to perform services under these laws, special housing, user-controlled personal assistance, operations, and the provision of short-term choice areas, saving children outside the household, waiting to be provided for a waiting period and wait for a waiting period of time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not there is any of these regulations, whether or not they are available for the implementation of the law, and whether the Council will be presented in the important areas covered by the Commission's legislation. The main question, though, is whether or not the regulations will be ready for the implementation of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u59	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. This certainly is so that the Regulation has begun. They are not yet ready. I hope that we will succeed in completing this important matter at this council and that regulations will follow. But they are not yet ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Then I'd like to turn to the second part 40. g. has to do with publications made available by the secretary under these laws. There I look at the 1st story in the same article - I find the figure here a bit strange -- where it says that a minister should publish a manual on the conduct of user-controlled personal assistance, including on the role and responsibilities, organization and implementation, monitoring and the expense department of parties, as per Article 11. this bill, as well as several other publications such as guidance on the implementation of specific leisure services, the implementation of family support services, and the implementation of cohesion for social rights, rehabilitation, tool and equipment costs, and the payment of academic expenses. This does not indicate what can be found elsewhere in this bill, that it should be consulted with the disabled or users of this service, or something like that. That's why I'm asking the highest. Ministers in particular in the preparation of this manual, to consult with those who receive this service, the interest groups of disabled people, and users themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u61	Madam President. I appreciate that tip. Of course, it is the spirit of the law to have wide consultation with an interest body when it comes to it. We will, of course, do so in publishing this guide, as has been done in preparing for the bill and it is very important that if it is approved here, we continue with the act of the law. It will be guided by the further work of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u62	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to 21 st. The bill about children's living outside the home. It is very delicate to see if children should simply be saved outside the home. It says here, by permission of the President: It is advisable to prepare a special facility for disabled children with severe mental and mental disorders, as it has been fully developed to support a child in their family home or in another family in its nearby community. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister who should appreciate this. Is it a consulting team, the expert team referred to at 20. .......... that should be appreciated, or is it in the hands of others? Is it possible to appeal to the authority that this has been fully developed? I ask the minister to shed a little clearer light on this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u63	Madam President. I thank the senator for this question. I agree that the more delicate things don't become things than when these decisions happen. This refers to a team of experts to be appointed by the Minister according to Article 20. which should then decide when it is considered sufficient for other measures to be sufficient. Such a decision is then approved to the social ruling committee. I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u64	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yes, there was an explanation. I think it's one of the things a health committee needs to consider very carefully, because it's a very delicate matter. I'd also like to ask the highest. Ministers in provision for temporary negotiations until 2022: Are these agreements fully funded in the current fiscal budget, and we are also discussing, or will have to ensure financial support for the proposed strategy? Some might say that we need more contracts, but it's all very important that we know if this plan is fully funded.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A good question for a senator. The answer is short and sweet: Yes. Of course, the five - year financial programme was guided by the fact that the goals set out there for the implementation of NAPA were full - fledged and, of course, urgent. I don't think there's any reason to have any further issues about it. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u66	A respectable president. I thank the Minister very much for his advance, and I agree that it is a pleasure to see this matter come in here. I'm going to follow questions that the minister was making very clear, that the cost of the financial program that we are considering now on the committees of the council is quoted in the comments of Reykjavík, the community that has the greatest experience in the use of user - controlled personal assistance and other legal services. It says that Reykjavíkurburg must require that the State ensures that in a new financial program full funding services to disabled persons in accordance with the standards of service that have been set and the actual cost of rendering the ministry. I've had a bit of a problem understanding how the cost of negotiations should be reduced over the financial period in which there's a lot of pressure on higher government donations and should be paid more in time for NA. [[The president calls.]] How does that even work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u67	Madam President. I confess to my ignorance about the exact amount of cost taken. However, it was a team of experts to assess the potential scope of this strategy or what you might expect to expect to have many such agreements as well as to assess the number of times behind each contract. This budget is based on both the extent of the agreements and the cost of them, on the basis of this group's assessment. I have no reason to believe that such an estimate is realistic. However, there is no secret that there is still an unsolved issue between state and rural society that turns toward the cost factor of 25% of the total cost paid by the State, while rural society has demanded about 30%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u68	A respectable president. I think this is something that is very important to the Minister that he/she is making a clear answer. The report itself shows that the European Union of Icelandic rural society provides warnings about some of the reasons for the cost assessment. They point out that they required that the share of the State in the NPA deal be 30%, but not 25%, which I know very well. They also warn that there will be a reduction in other farm budgets by 15%. They feel very low in economic management to some extent during the induction period and point to the pressure on the price at the time of reference in the MPA service. True, these are comments that have also been presented in general on the rural and financial programmes, as well as on the fact that the agreement has been very limited. It seems that when it comes to the cost of rural society, human beings are almost flogging about numbers. I reiterate that I think it's very important, because we all agree that here's a good suggestion, to make sure that there's money to follow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of this observation. Of course, it should be noted that the government's budget is the government's policy, looking to the next five years. This, in turn, requires closer consultations with rural society when it comes to their terms of spending on the budget of each year. It is true that in the format of that policy plan it has not been carefully consulted with all concerned persons, although it is simply not a time for such consultation in the short period of time established by the five-year financial programme. Of course, such consultations will be carried out at work to the very future and in preparation for the work in the autumn. We have received reports from the local community regarding the cost of this defined service. They need to take a closer look to make sure that we are actually financing the agreements they are making. [[The president calls.]] But until further inspection at that cost has been made, I assume that the criteria we work on are correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u70	Madam President. This bill lays the foundation for new laws on service to disabled people with a great need for service. Laws Replace Laws on the Issues of Disappointment, No. 59/1992, with a name change designed to emphasize that the law is primarily dealing with services that disabled persons have rights, as well as with those who need more service to be met by the general law. I'm glad you're here. I am glad that this work is being done on this vastly important task force, which has not received the attention and care that he has had the right to receive in recent years. Even so, at first we have an opinion of this bill that is quite difficult for me to discuss. In the bill there seems to be some discrepancies about how to cooperate with stakeholders and rural communities. As an example, it is in the fourth chapter. The bill on the management and supervision of a minister stated that a minister should consult the European Union and the NGOs of disabled persons. The same is true in Article 7. ............................ magazine on decision for service and paragraph 16. It's about vacation service. In 11. c., about the user - controlled personal assistance, it is said that rural society, the interest groups of disabled people, or the association of disabled persons should be consulted. That's 12th and 19th. A service team to be made up and treated with different parties and by the 37th paragraph is required. it also includes consultation with local ministers, disabled people's interest groups, and other stakeholders. That's 36th. A meeting committee is based on the affairs of disabled persons who are in consultation with the State, rural society, and stakeholders. The Committee shall appoint representatives of the Ministry, Department of finance, rural society, and the interest groups of disabled persons. The Council Committee should be a consultant for policy ministers. All of this is a rule of conversation somewhat confusing and indicates that there was no overall thought in the way users, stakeholders, and others should be consulted. In this category, it is necessary to explain how the disabled have the potential to communicate their views, and this must harmonize with the arrangement of agreement. The bill suggests the introduction of a form of service to a disabled person, called personal help or MPA. MPA is a form of service based on the idea of the independent life of the disabled. They meet the needs of disabled people for personal assistance, so they disabled themselves as managers of assistance. They will be such foremen in their own lives. A person who has made a deal on the NPA receives money instead of a service and thus can choose his own assistants and determine how the help is being done. NAPA has been employed as a national experiment project since 2012, and the service has been very effective for users. The quality of life of those who have made good use of this service has improved greatly. During the past few years, there have been some 50 to 60 contracts on the NPA in this country. According to the assessment made by the Social Science Institute last year, consumers of the ministry had to say that NPA has a very positive effect on their quality of life and that NPA users were more likely to pursue employment or study. Then the ministry greatly increased the independence of disabled persons and enabled them to care for home, family, and interests. Here is an example of a very successful experiment, which must be considered a benefit to society as many disabled individuals benefit from this arrangement. If we look to neighboring countries, we will see that NPA has been the main type of service for those who need it for decades. NPA was registered in Norway in 2000, Sweden in 1994, and Denmark had started testing NPA from 1970. According to a report with the bill, users in Sweden were numbered at 15,800 in 2009. It is clear, then, that NPA is extremely important for the quality of life of disabled people with a great need for support. The bill discusses how to work on MPA's implementation when it is legalized. According to a report of NPA project management, dated January 23, 2017, it is estimated that the need for MPA contracts up to and during the year 2019 will be a total of 172 contracts. Last year 53 were active contracts. In accordance with the bill, the induction will be in a way that increases the budget for negotiations annually so that in 2018 the budget will be funded up to 80 treaties, in 2019 103 contracts, 2020 125 contracts, 2021 150, and then 2022 will be funded by this 172 contract. This means that people who are entitled to NPA today have to wait up to five years to get the services they need in order to live independent lives. Madam President. Five years is a long time. In 1st. The bill says that the goal of the law is that disabled persons have the best service available at any given time to meet their specific needs. We can do that service today. Is it really fair and social to ask these individuals to wait many years to enjoy the ministry that we accept that they need and should be self - righteous? Last year, Iceland validated a United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. According to 3 mg. 1st par. The bill shall be carried out by the law to carry out the international commitments agreed upon by the Icelandic government, particularly by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In 1st. Count 9. The contract shows that Member States should take appropriate measures to enable disabled people to live their own lives and to take full part in all aspects of life. That's 19, then. The agreement also discussed the right of the disabled to lead an independent life without segregation in the community. In particular, the article shows that Member States should take effective and appropriate measures to make disabled persons entitled to live in the community without separateness and options comparable to others. This should include: By ensuring the access of disabled persons to many kinds of community assistance, to form the necessary services to live in the community without segregation and to prevent their isolation and separation from society. By highlighting the number of contracts that the state will finance, it is being put on the rights of disabled persons for their own lives. What about those who have to wait for the funding of their contracts? What if the number of people requiring NPA increases? If the United States is to respect human rights of disabled and international commitments, this law must be revised and financed all the necessary agreements. It is clear that some of the funds will come back in the box if you are to judge the experimental projects that have taken place in the past few years and the result of improved learning rates and increased employment participation, but this is not a matter of money. This is a matter of human rights to disabled persons, of their right to independent life. The benefits it brings to society are the gains unappreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u71	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the services of disabled people who have a great need for support. I'd like to say at the beginning that I think there are some very good and positive things in the bill that will make the people more physically disabled and that can make their lives very better. I know that the discussion will be a big deal about NPA and would like to mention special things that are not about to go to MPA but also important. That's even. of what is discussed in 9th. ......, that speaks of disabled people having the right to choose both a place to live as well as where and with whom they live. Refusing services to disabled persons is forbidden because it is conditional that they live in a designated home where they live. I think it's very important and good. Besides, I think it's important that we discuss in paragraph 17. which is a short-term emergency. It says that parents of a child who has the right to a short period of time do not necessarily have to send the child out of his home but can receive support in their home rather than send him another one. I think it's really important. Clown children, like all other children, should be able to live at home with their parents, and it is important that circumstances be placed in such a way that parents receive support in the home, but the child does not have to move temporarily. I know that a lot of children have been in a short term outside the home and enjoy it, but things should be that way before they need not be going that way. It is also very important that this bill insists on getting the user - controlled personal help into the law. But I'm worried that the funding is not safe, so it just comes on page. 23 In the report with the bill, the Union of Icelandic rural society, which is, of course, the person who is actually a servant, feels obliged to set in advance a specific basis for the costs of the bill, and it shows that the relationship with the welfare Ministry required that the State's share in NPA contracts be 30%, not 25%, as expected. It matters. It is the rural population that will implement the NPA services. Is it true that the number of NAPAs, as I think it would seem, may either be lower than the type of service or in some other way be tried to turn it into the money the rural community has. Clearly, they feel that they need a greater gift from the State. This is also related to the fact that since the beginning of NPA as an experimental project for those who work to help the disabled is low and that there are difficulties in finding employees, workers being very frequent. That's very depressing for users of the ministry. This small budget has made it a small amount of space when something has come up, e.g. if you have been ill. There is not enough money inside the system to cope with the need to pay employees, including their illness. There has been a tendency to hire employees as contractors, not as employees. That has even been true. You have been designed to cover the cost. But I feel that it is important to mention immediately in this discussion that our rural society has obligations bound by law and collective agreements. It needs to be thought of when the law is set. In my opinion, rights and services to disabled persons should never be at the expense of the staff, so to speak, to form with a small salary or the environment of the employee. They are tried to pressure them into being dictators who are contractors rather than employees who have the support of others who are in the same position and then for example. bigger unions. Service to disabled persons and their rights must not be at the expense of the staff in this article. Of course not the other way around. That's why financing has to be secure. That's why it's so bad, if we're gonna start off with that, that rural society starts with a warning at the expense that's thought to result from the induction of this bill. I think it's very important, because it's been studied and examined quite a lot of how it's been going with MPA as an experiment project. As referred to in the bill, the National Social Science Institute of Iceland won both a financial and professional assessment of user-controlled personal assistance in cooperation with various parties, to form a laboratory facility in disability and the Research Institute in Child - Family Protection. Much is stated in this study on points to be considered on the financing. I think it's urgent. The welfare committee examined this report. It's certainly very long, but there are good summary chapters in it that I think will shed more light on where the cost is, where it's been difficult to get money, and it's been missing. I believe this should be considered in particular because, as shown in the Supreme Court, so is the case. Minister and procrastinator. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is an extremely important form of service to disabled people, who truly increase the standard of living for those who get the kind of service and enable people to participate in society in such a way that they do not have any other service. There is something else that I think is bad in this bill that we need to think especially about and pay attention. That is what we will consider. of 6. which is about negotiations with private people. It says that rural society is permitted to negotiate with members of a community, private organisations, or other private members of its service areas, in accordance with these laws. Here I must reiterate, in my opinion of welfare services, not to be a means of profit to a private person, rather than a health service. Of course, there is a way to run a ministry or to have self - interest agencies that work in behalf of disabled persons and to report that there will be some healing for the project again. However, it is as important in this regard as in health care that private workers cannot make money out of their well - being as those who render services to disabled persons. It was stated at the NPA seminar last November that users who have bought services from companies received fewer hours than they had been evaluated because they paid more for each hour of services. The service to disabled persons and to some middle people, companies who provide this service, is taking to heart funding. I don't think that's the way to spend the money of the public who is going to give the disabled a certain service but not business gain. This is one of the things I think the committee needs to look at and at least notice that services to disabled people cannot be taken advantage of because there are some things that can be good at working, e.g. in association, such as the NPA centre, where you can get a sense of harmony by getting disabled persons together to buy services such as, for example, we're booking. I'm not saying it shouldn't be allowed to make any deals with any party, but it's not supposed to result in making profits for private people. I think that as soon as this bill is legal, there are some things that will improve and look at progress, there are other factors that need to be considered particularly well because it is so important that now that, at last, at last, at last, the laws of the user - controlled personal assistance begin to begin the task well rather than underdeveloped and thus will be almost condemned to fail or dress the flight. Of course, this must not happen. [[The president calls.]] The form of service is so important to those who are disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u72	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I want to be happy that we are discussing this matter. This is a very important subject that has required much preparation. I would particularly like to use this opportunity here and thank our former senator, Willum Þór Þórsson, who led the work of this case and the members of the Ministry and the number of stakeholders and individuals who were involved in this bill and then the bill that the Minister will measure afterwards. It's a pleasure to see you coming into this council. This is a big deal. There are some serious changes suggested here. That's why I thought it was right for me to respond to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. I think we all agree on the importance of these changes. But in order for them to become reality, capital support is needed. It's a big concern when you're at the highest level. A minister cannot answer clearly, but he did here in answer to whether the cost of this bill is practical. I reiterate that at a meeting of the legal committee, I followed the city of Reykjavík and their relationship with their reviews, where they noted that they did not consider enough money to be involved in this big and important task. When the jury was transferred to the countryside at the time, 2012, it was said that there were about 1,000 workers who needed the most service. Their numbers have increased. When you go through the reevaluation report, there are service workers who receive the various services somewhere in the range of 1,000,500,000. Based on the number of contracts referred to here, during this period of financial planning, we are talking about a range of 13◯17%, which, for example, will receive personal assistance in relation to 172 contracts. I want to reiterate that I find it extremely difficult to understand how the cost of this period can work out that the contract should be reduced when it comes to making a demand to raise the amount paid for every hour in the user - controlled personal assistance and that rural society has also attended a further contribution from the State. This must be one of the key elements that the welfare committee needs to consider in this matter. The main criticism that has originated since the transfer is that they want to take good care of it, but they have, unfortunately, not received enough money. They need more money to be able to do the work properly. We need to consider this carefully during the treatment of the council and also when it comes to the matter I have mentioned here, the financial program itself. I'd like to use this opportunity to point out that in this bill there are regulations on user contracts. I hope in some way that percentage I think is pretty low. It continues to think of the right to independent life, but it is assumed that a community can keep up with the books, the business, on those contracts; yet, it is always a work on the basis of the user's having everything to say who will care for him. These contracts have also been called direct payment agreements, but the decision has been made to speak of them in the laws of user contracts. MPA, in effect, is an implementation of user contracts. It's very important to keep it in place. Other teams being reassigned here are turning toward housing for disabled people who are expected to be guaranteed by their rural communities. In my time, it took time for me to realize how the transfer was accomplished, for it was not a simple matter, that about 80 property from the State went over to the rurals. They were houses, clinics, services and employment. It was replaced by a very favorable funding for this facility, which the locals are paying for into the so-called foundation of an equation. Since then, money has been done with very little. Hundreds of millions come every year into the equation fund, which is then reimbursement for this loan, these real estates. It is therefore very important, and it was also shown in the comments of Reykjavíkurburg and the Union, to repair the housing of disabled persons. The reevaluation report of the time indicated that the target cost was estimated to be up to 2020, due to renewal of farms and maintenance, could be up to 8 billion. This is Reykjavíkurburg, pointing to him, i.e. that would likely take around 2 billion to eliminate the list of waitings. Besides, rooms need to be laid down, and that is one of the things we all agree to work on. When I was at the Ministry of Health, I imagined that the founding of the new general apartment system could come from the general part of the housing, which would be the payment of an equation that provided financial resources in the service industry, the expensive part of a house that reflects the special needs of the disabled person. As a result, I and the Minister of the inside agreed on that interpretation. During the first distribution, 90 million came to the countryside to ensure this extra space and additional equipment, which is needed to make the facility most useful to the disabled person. This was one of the things I discussed with my rural society at a meeting of the financial committee. Clearly, money was not completely agreed on how to use it. Some realize that this should be reinvest in school, others that it should go to a rehabilitation center, but I thought that the exchange of these funds within the equation would reflect the value of the property covered. Of course, some of the priorities of the rural communities in housing are also involved. One thing I'd like to point out is the turning of a car service. I didn't recommend long before a bill to make sure that disabled people who are 67 years old and older were entitled to drive, just as those who are disabled under 67 years of age were entitled to drive. There was considerable discussion about the cost of driving. That is why I am a little surprised to see almost no discussion here on this aspect, though it is quite clear that an elderly person who has a disability and has entered a nursing home is not entitled to that service. I think it's important to go over it very well with a welfare committee. I'm not sure that's what an interest organization has called after. And we also need to better appreciate what that means for our communities about the cost. One of the things society has called for is for increased support. I was very sorry that I didn't get it done with the transfer that had to do with serving children with a wide variety of problems. V.E.G. To some extent, a minister is coming, I believe, to meet this group in the family phase of the financial programme, where a new legal arrangement is to be set up here in the capital area. However, that has not been the focus or conclusion of the Ministry work group. It is considered very important for children with a multiple problem, just as it would be. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir passed through and was inquiring about, in her family environment. Although they need much support, we do not take our children away from our families. It's something we've been through a long time ago, and we're not going back there. Once again, we come to the point where the communities have been pointing out, i.e. the need to provide funding for the services of children with a wide variety of problems. They have to admit it. It's part of what the Parliament must simply review, whether or not the legal adjustments here are being made to cover this and then again whether the budget will be able to control it. It's gonna be a big project. But if we are going to be optimistic, we can hope that this will be considered by the council in May, but it is still a question of whether it will work. However, I would feel that it is extremely urgent that we be able to secure this service through the financial program. It's clear that we're gonna take care of it and then we're gonna finish this bill. It is especially important that this matter be taken up. We, however, need to make sure that our money is not just empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u73	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the services of disabled people with a great deal of support, from the social and equality minister. I'd like to welcome the contributions of this bill and thank the Minister very much for that. He has been in the Ministry for a short time, but he has shown that his heart beats with the ways in which he works. We who have previously followed these issues are thrilled to have arrived in this place. The bill produces much more rights for disabled persons to their own lives. Their right to service will be clearer, and there will be new forms of service in these laws. Legal rights are brought into agreement with the United Nations Convention on Rights and Duties of Infirms and Older Citizens. Then it is important that the pattern of law is a step toward establishing new ideologies, as shown in the bill, in connection with all the services enjoyed by disabled persons. Then there's an enormously important element in the bill all cooperation with the rurals. I'm convinced that we will reach a good conclusion in the cooperation of the bill and the reviews have been made. SIS will continue to be submitted to central donations for rural society from an equation fund that is subject to most of the service because of this bill. It is also noted in the bill that in this year 324 million donations are raised by 2018,2022 million in the budget of the year, to 1,295 million in 2022. There has also been an increase in contracts made over the years that will be 80 next year, becoming 175 in 2022, as we have seen. It has been criticized that this will not be meaningful in a single instance. I'd like to state that I think it's important for all of us that we take all the steps in this direction, to improve the interests and interests of disabled people, firmly and rapidly, but that we could do whatever steps we take anyway. There is much to be said about them. We know this and have experience with it from the northern nations. There are reports of NPA services having dark sides there too. Let's try not to get involved here. Of course, the rural communities have ruled this class. They have handled this successfully, with support from the State. I think it's best that we keep taking them together, firmly but not too fast. I don't think it would necessarily benefit everyone. I also want to celebrate what is stated in the 22nd floor. for jobs where the job is to be promoted by disabled persons, who are extremely important, and we are all special amateurs, anyway. It is stated in the last paragraph of the article that disabled people have first place in government and rural activities if their qualifications are equal to or greater than others who apply for the job. I feel that this article is very important in this way. One of the most important things in our society, and especially now when we see that there is a considerable quantity of people in the workforce, we and our job life make it possible for people who may not have the full capacity to participate in professional activities as hard as they want. That is why part - time jobs need to be more open to taking part - time jobs. It lacks. Those of us now need it more than the rest of us who believe we have the full energy. I want to impress us and the community to welcome these people into their professional lives because they can and they want to do good there. I'm assuming that the discussion ends, the bill goes to the welfare committee. I think it's important that these issues be taken into consideration. There are good people, and I think at the end of the day there will be considerable harmony at the council to resolve these issues. I trust we can even finish it for spring. I don't know exactly what your expectations are. But we need to finish our work and create a setting for these individuals whom we have worked for so long. The minister puts this matter forward, and once again I want to reiterate my gratitude to him for the fact that this is done. Surely we will discuss it better in the coming days and weeks, and we will reach conclusions that will be most successful for the individuals involved and society for all and for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u74	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to legalize the services of disabled people who have a great need for support. I'd like to start by saying that I'm glad that we're discussing this bill today, which involves an enormous step towards the legal binding of the UN Convention on the Infirm. However, there are some things I would like to draw out in particular. The bill is a major step toward ensuring the right of people to their own lives and sharing in the community without segregation. Then I would especially like to mention what is stated in paragraph 8. for supportive services aimed at meeting the needs of disabled persons for services that include trusting their prospects for independence from homes and social services, the needs of qualified, rehabilitation, education and employment, including those who are disabled. Based on appropriate adjustments so that they can support themselves and have an active share in the community as much as any other disabled person's needs for specialized counseling, social support, and social association, including the practice of leisure and cultural activities, and finally the need for disabled children for care and training, together with the necessary services to their families, so that they can provide their children with secure and mature parenting conditions. That puts you in the 9th. Also being strengthened by the right to choose a place to live, to choose where and by whom they would like to live. The same article also forbids the binding of services to disabled persons because of the condition that they live in a designated homemaker. This is an enormously important act of justice. That's a big step in 1 1 1. bill in front of disabled persons by legalizing their rights to personal help with the user. It makes it clear that with permission of the president, the assistance is being given: ▪... be organized on the basis of the user and under the control of the job and his work management. This is an enormously important point. Then I also find it necessary to call attention to the services being legalized in connection with disabled children and their families. 13th. is very clear about the duties of the government to provide disabled children with the necessary service so that they can have full - time human rights, just as other children do. Here are the laws of the disabled child's own rights to independent life and legality that they can participate in society without separateness. This even hides. It includes the fact that disabled children truly have access to and benefit from education. They should also have real access to training, preparation, and leisure activities. If so, it is truly positive for a 16th degree. The bill is legalized the right of disabled children and young people to vacation services after school, also on school holidays, and since it is appropriate before daily teaching begins. This emphasizes that a service should be individualized and designed to be appropriate for each person as best. It is worth noting that funding to date has been guaranteed. That's especially to be welcomed. I would like to finally point to chapter V, professional. It provides additional support for disabled persons in need of employment. This is of utmost importance, for having the real opportunity to engage in employment in cases where the disabled can and wills is greatly improved. I want to end up praying at the highest. Ministers to do a little more research in their second speech and to account for the improvements announced in this series of languages, i.e. The job of the disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u75	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to legalize the services of disabled people who have a great need for support. I agree with them. Congress members who have made up the present bill, which is a cause for joy and good, but there are, of course, weaknesses in the bill that I hope to experience. The welfare committee will cover and strengthen the bill, and this will become a good law until later. When this bill becomes a law, it replaces the law on the disabled people's affairs from 1992 that made several changes in 2011 when the disabled issues were transferred to the rural community. In the bill of this, a new approach in welfare and human rights is presented in line with the developments we have experienced in recent years, as shown by changes in the European Court of Human Rights in 1995, the legalization of the European Convention 1994, and the signing of the United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled people in 2007 and its validation in 2016. The law sharpens various factors that were obscured by older law in my opinion and is increasingly designed by the individual needs and circumstances of the individual, wishes, and other factors, such as sex, sex, age, ethnic background, and religion. The bill will include a great improvement in the quality of life for disabled persons, the rights made clearer, as well as in the bill of new forms of service that will improve the quality of life of disabled persons. The project that has been experimental since the mid-1990s, the user-controlled personal assistance, will be legalized by accepting this bill. Emphasis is now laid on assessing the individual needs of the services, that comparable cases have comparable treatments and unpleasant occurrences of different solutions. All in all, this is a personal service and that the services will be rendered on the grounds of what the ministry is enjoying, on the grounds of the user. Various gray areas are destroyed, and points are explained in view of the experiences of the old law. Like other citizens, disabled people are entitled to public service. If, for example, supportive care measures are 10 to 15 hours. The general laws for social services apply at week but these laws accept if the service becomes larger. Opportunities have developed between laws on the affairs of disabled persons and laws on the affairs of the elderly. It's a novelty of the law and of the good. In accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments, a disabled person who is 67 years old may have the rights of both laws. The experience, however, was that when a person turned 67 years of age, there was an incident in rural society that some people dealt with this issue, what law should be used. Chapter V discusses the plans for the future business of disabled persons who base on the 2015 Declaration of Will and Country Partners, where the red thread is being treated as about employment issues for the disabled. This presents a challenge. I agree with them. Congress officials have noted that people with disability are extremely precious to have access to a job market account. The labour market is very precious to have people with a wide range of backgrounds in their ministry. I know from my workplace that those who have impaired employment are precious individuals in so many ways to the workplace. An important element of the bill is the one involved in the activities of children with integrated mental and developmental disorders. In this way, the shot is restored to a problem that has been difficult to cope with in many rural areas. It's not a simple thing. Many are connected with children with this integrated problem, and they do not always know who has the primary responsibility to serve them. This bill, which hopefully becomes legal, is well defined. We are not talking about a large number of children in this case, but this is quite complex and costly. In 1 1. The bill discusses the user - controlled personal assistance, PA, which many consider a very important part of this new bill and the four squares of the law. The usefulness of personal assistance is that individuals who need help in daily life themselves control what kind of supportive services they enjoy, where and how they receive it, and who render that service. The goal is that disabled people can enjoy independence comparable to all other citizens of this country and should not be required in 2017. However, it is the choice of those involved, whether they want to apply this methodology or ideologies, the user - controlled personal assistance, the choice of whether or not to select it. What is very important in carrying out this project, and we will no doubt discuss it at the beginning of the year. The welfare committee is that there is a built - in flexibility in this system, MPA. Individually, there are so many needs that we must prepare for this, and MPA is not suitable for nearly everyone. Of course, in view of the experiences of neighboring nations, people look to the fact that the NFL is the first step toward being the primary form of service to disabled people in the future. When we talk about disabled people, we are talking about those with limited energy, mobility, but we may as well be looking at those who are older and who lack energy for those reasons, although they are not necessarily classified as disabled. We believe that the service will develop to help those who need assistance at a different level. A fundamental factor in the implementation of this system is that this is a cooperation project of the state and rural society, still for a time, although the group is law-enforced by local communities. It is expected that the share of the State in the NPA treaties will be twenty-five percent of the cost, but that is not a unit. The rural population believes this is too low and needs to be at least Thirty percent. The European Union has discussed this subject, and it is as far as I know it is not a complete landing, but it has to be settled. I'm concerned that, once the law is completed in 2022, it will be a total of 172 contracts, and the induction will be a bit slow and it will be difficult to wait until 2022 after it is fully carried out. Probably 172 treaties are too few contracts. When this is completed in 2022, it is expected that it will be established into a permanent arrangement, i.e. the cost and change of MPA for the future, and the contribution of this agreement will then be moved from state to rural society by budget 20203. Then you must have reached the extent and the price tag. A respectable president. I believe that this overall is a positive bill, which, according to the above, leads to increased legal benefits for disabled persons. This is a human rights issue and will, along with a bill of changes in local social services laws, will receive a useful coverage of the World Health Committee and, hopefully, the first law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u76	A respectable president. I want, like the rest of us here today, to welcome the big, big human rights case that we're discussing. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. This has been a great deal of work here. I'm pleased to see how much consultation has been made with the work of this project, now I'm thinking especially about the NPA part of this bill. It is part of the government covenant to establish a law in cooperation with the communities. Like what? It is not new to the council, and we have been working a considerable amount of time on it and have also been mentioned as working on it. This refers to an individual service, which, of course, is a challenge when it comes to administrative matters, but it is a way that we should go in my opinion, both in this and in other service, to form with the elderly and into the medical system. However, I would like to mention only leisure service to disabled students. It speaks of the legal work of the local community, which is good, an important project, and the rural communities have generally carried it out. There, though, I believe that there is a great need for cooperation between the rural communities. It is one thing to have school without separation and to be able to teach children with different needs and study the material, but when it comes to social activities, the challenges will be even greater. I think it's necessary for the rurals to get together at that job. I'd like to direct one question to the Minister because there's a little bit of experience going over in other parts of the North. I remember especially speaking about Sweden and the assessment, since the conclusion was very positive. I have heard, however, and it comes even. in the comments of Reykjavíkurburg, in fact on the financial program, that other parts of the North are falling away from this arrangement. For example, I have not seen it anywhere else except in this review, and I have often heard it thrown away in this discussion. If the highest. A minister would be interesting to hear him talk about it. I have to admit that as much as I celebrate this bill and I think it's important to human rights, I'm on standby for a warning made by the European Union on the cost of the team. The bill says, with President's permission: It is assumed that this procedure will continue to be fundamental and that the central donations from the rural budget will depend on most of the services of the bill. I was involved in the meaning, and I think most of those who have been involved in rural politics would pay all the expenses of that service to the community that would result in the transfer of the causes of the disabled. If a minister could discuss this slightly in his final talk below. And then I insist. The welfare committee to specifically review this aspect of their work. Other than that, I thank you for this good bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u77	Madam President. Similarly, I am not interested in or the need to extend this discussion much. paritaprevir This case has been handled well by the Steinh Þóra Árnadóttir on our part, members of Congress, left in green. There are a few things I would like to take this opportunity and stop. First of all, I welcome the bill as well as the bill that is next on the program, which is both happy. In this way we are taking steps to prepare in a modern way for this service and to be better prepared to finally introduce the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In 2011, I became very involved in the transfer of money from state to rural society and am convinced that it was true and that it was proud of my involvement, although it was certainly during difficult times that this difficult task was moved from a state to a rural society. But I am convinced that it has come well as any other service, and I still use the opportunity to express my view of presenting matters to the elderly as well as integrating all the community - care services. The government has to be handsome in its own way and is still responsible for the category of languages, of course, even though local communities care for the construction and earn it. Of course, it does not solve the lawgiver and the government, premeditated, under its responsibility for this kind of case. In fact, the nature of the matter in itself is simply impossible to envision such a situation in a different way than that of a cooperative project. It was quite popular here at one time to talk about the clean, business distinctions that should be achieved between the State and the local community. There could never be any gray areas because they felt that this meant some difficulty and arguing over how to split costs. To me, that is a completely out - of - date approach. We are to view the welfare business of the Iceland community as one joint, collective project, and not too busy with the borders of the environment, but with cooperation and cooperation, where both administrative levels are involved. The key business here is the nature of the situation, so it must be handled in a very good way. The government will continue to participate in the specifics and costs of rural society. It does, on the other hand, by direct contributions or by some proportion of cost-to-target activities, but there are, of course, the types of income that were moved to the rural areas to cover the expenses and to a large extent pass through the equation fund. At the time, it was calculated to meet expenses as they were at the end of the crisis, i.e. the equivalent of the total cost of the state of the case, may have been in 2009 rather than 2010, which would require about 1.34% of the target strain, the income tax product at that time. But everyone realized that he was then in great depression and would improve with economy. The result, then, was to attach this at the beginning of 1.2% and then add slightly to it on the basis of a new agreement. It went well too. It took only three years for the bidder to give more credit to the real value of the Party than the integrity of the group had cost in 2010. But the need to meet new demands and new requests is part of this matter, to do better in the seminary. The government will deal with rural communities regarding those who have endured and have a high level of support and service, including those who are going to receive services through user-controlled personal assistance where appropriate. The same can be said of leisure services in disabled persons and housing areas where they are particularly burdensome or extensive, that the State is continuing to share in half - cost, as I understand. Then I've come to what I really wanted to say. It says that in the Senate professional committees, we are in the financial programme until five years ago. This week a well - versed committee is completing its work as a commission to the money board, in effect, about to receive these bills from the highest level. Minister. As a result, the committee will have a very short time to compare the objectives of the bill with what it says about costs and costs, and again what can be read from the budget and may be clearer. I'm not going to go in this far into it, Mr. President, getting out of the room for my dissatisfaction with the financial program I've been wrestling with for ten days. I now pretend to be quite a bit of a read on paper of this sort, but I've had the most difficult time beating me through what things mean in chapters and what's really going on, e.g. In the form of funding for many important well - beings. Thus, inconsistencies, innuendo, innuendo, innuendo, innuendo, innuendo, innuendo, and indiscriminately innuendo. In part, regarding this point, it may be said that it is not completely clear what the scope is in relation to an increase in the seminary to meet the plans of this bill and to some extent also in the bill of changing social assistance laws, although it is greatly reduced to costs, with significant improvement in the seminary, increased monitoring, and strengthened implementation, and better treatment of issues, that it should cost something. Admittedly, much of this is happening to the communities. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Can he assure us and discuss with us the following: Is there room for financial management in order to fully meet the growing contracts for user-controlled personal assistance covered in a provision for temporary I.e. does 80 contracts go out to 172 at the planned time, as this law falls within the same years of the financial agenda? I realize that to set up such an expense plan, men need to provide a measure of the basis. This is done by an estimate of the median per contract or the average cost of a contract. I understand that you can't get some exact number on a dollar and a buck. But that's at least It is very important that we know that this is in the financial process. Why do you have to ask this, Mr. President? This is because the financial programme, as it is established, and in the section on social expenses, no one can see anything that can be used to figure out what is meant, e.g. in this reserved case. There are no tables, no disassembles, nothing, hidden in all tables where you have no green suspicion of what to wear except the limited amount of guidance in the report itself or the evidence that has already come from the Ministry. True, it is proper to state that we have requested dislocation and subsidiary from the Ministry, but the evidence has not yet come to the conclusion. It's, like, a... A very good example of this was to be followed by a special section or financial report. In fact, I strongly criticize that once the contract of disabled people's rights is finally introduced, the opportunity is not used to make it, e.g. In one place, it is clear where the government's actions are in place to deal with the induction. Where can they be found? □ What are some of the ways in which we can apply the counsel found at 1 Timothy 6: 9 - 11? Still, how glad we are that this is the case with reforms in this area! Of course, I rejoice over it and rejoice to increase the share of the State in making a growing number of contracts over the next few years for the user - controlled personal assistance. I hope you can meet the needs with this plan. Second, I rejoice that the price must be laid, at least a little more than just a little more in support of leisure services to disabled students. Of course, the budgets are of great importance here, adding considerably from the year 2019 to a multiplicityd transplant service for children. Of course, they could be further addressed and asked: Do we not have to face up to extending more help, i.e. It is possible to help even if only these extremely few and particularly expensive resources are available, but, for example, it can be done. if parents of disabled children need to make any costly changes in their homes in order to make their living possible? Finally, this article discusses the economic affairs of disabled persons and is well - versed. This calls for considerable additional funds, and it is very important that the budget is properly maintained. If the highest. A minister could come up here and say: these data were reported on by my Ministry of Economics and were quickly accepted into the financial program, then it's all right. Then we'll know what's left of the group. You see, that is how humans need to approach it. Then there may not be other aspects of the increase, such as beysin's, asking me to suspect. I would like a minister to do a little better over this cost factor in his future talk, which he will likely attend at the end of the discussion. I know that at that point, the minister has an excellent time in his speech number two to consider this matter carefully. It will save us on the welfare committee and relieve us of anxiety if a minister can give us completely clear and immediate answers in these areas today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u78	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a very careful discussion on this important subject. This bill consists of a fundamental change in our approach to the affairs of disabled people. This is a fundamental theme of the right to an independent life without separation, which should guide us toward the road. I think that here we are, of course, taking a very big step but only the first thing in that subject. We need to get back to work. There are many challenges ahead. Regarding the user - controlled personal aid that these are costly resources, these are factors that we as a community should put on and take pride in, though they may be expensive. There are times when human rights are involved, and these are human rights for which we should take all our pride. I also find it appropriate to thank my predecessor for the work that led to a review of these laws and to follow that work in the longest part of my life. My share comes to the end of the job and lay down for the council. There is good reason to thank for your well - being, as well as the work done by all the stakeholders and personnel of the Ministry involved. This has been discussed with regard to the cost of this bill, and particularly about the MPA and its resources, which are just to be adjusted. It is quite set, and has been asked repeatedly here, to ensure the total cost of this 172 contract in a five-year financial programme, along with the other costs of this bill, which is primarily outside the NAP as a child's leisure service. Both are expected in the five-year program. There have been speculations and questions about the position of the cost of each contract. It is, therefore, mainly to say that the greatest agreements are expected to have occurred in the first process, the existing contracts, and the time behind each contract, on average, a reduction in the number of contracts. This explains the cost of development. However, it should be kept in mind that the bill includes the provisional regulations for a number of contracts. It is our duty in the future to secure the money of the agreements to meet the laws of the law that this bill will be in the law there. We certainly have estimated sizes, but that is a lot of the contracts involved. That promise is a promise that we must keep. Similarly, financial support for disabled persons and increased emphasis is assured, in particular, the role of a labour oce to provide better counseling and to increase the quality of the disabled. This is what I think is a very important matter, something we're supposed to do even better. In fact, when it came to e.g., I think that integrating in the Ministry needed much better. Let us buy tools to enable disabled persons to get and do secular work. When it comes to the right to independent life, it is an extremely important matter without the possibility of being able to work where possible. It is a vital step. It was asked about the development of other countries of the North countries as to personal assistance and whether it could be understood that other countries were evaporating from this strategy. The answer to that is no, not to my knowledge, but e.g. In Sweden the government has taken steps to resupply the standards. It has had what most users have to do with the resources, but it was even considered too open or too wide and was therefore revised in it. This is one of the reasons why this is determined to take the lead in this arrangement in order to improve our understanding of what the real demand is according to the options. There are also unsatisfactory questions, where the line line is, for example, the emphasis. of user-controlled help, i.e. that the user is fully capable of directing that help himself, where the line is found. Where is the limit to the elderly, when it comes to individuals with developmental impairment, etc.? As important as it is to legalize the measures, it is also very important that we move into the sample so that we don't look good in the way that we don't get ahead of ourselves in the induction process. I think I've got mostly if not everything answered questions about the cost of the five-year plan. This is all the expense to be found. I agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, first of all, is a typical NPA project in which there is no full distinction between state and rural society. There the State joins in a highly expensive way of handling matters. It is perfectly normal. Farmers are demanding that government funds pay 30% of their expenses. Now, based on 25%, when this project was taken, 20% was completed, so we're going somewhere in the middle of it. Another country in the North has often seen the advantages of rural society corresponding to a daily service of about 20 hours, if I recall correctly, and the state's missing daily service. All of these are factors that we need to have close consultation with our rural society and find the right rhythm. However, I am still waiting for local communities to count their services fully funded by the government or the government. It is our lifelong means of ensuring the funding of the services to which our communities are supposed to do by law. Of course it never ends. I think I've had the biggest thing that's ever been discussed in 1st. Once again, I want to thank you for a very good discussion. I certainly hope that we will succeed in ending this spring's case. I think there is a full reason, especially in the days of the NAPA, that this will not be the standard uncertainty of the case as the years pass, and it is almost during the last days of the council being made payable and established on contracts of the next year. I hope this time we will be able to do it well in advance and as much as finish the greater legal rights here on the road for disabled people. I look forward to following the case, both on committees and on 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u79	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the Community Services Act, No. 40/1991, with subsequent changes. This bill is, we can say, the cohesive figure of the subject that we discussed earlier today, the bill to correct the services of disabled people with a great need for support. The primary objective of the change in this bill is to implement the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people in Icelandic legislation. At the same time, the bill is presented a bill for new overall legislation on the services of disabled persons who say so in the past. Other changes have to do with the necessary changes of the law as a result of the development of other laws. The bill is based on the work of a panel appointed by the then social and housing minister in 2014 and was designed to review laws on the affairs of disabled people and community service laws. The service group represented the stakeholders of the user services of these two law columns, including disabled persons and older citizens, as well as members of the local social directors and members of the local Ministry. In the open history of the summer of 2016, the earliest projections were placed on the Ministry website and received many comments. Then, in October 2016, the group returned their proposals. The changes suggested in the bill are the main: First, there is an adjustment to the laws of the order of order of order and control and the role of social committees, where their organization is brought in harmony with the 2011 revised rural legislation. There is also a key role for the security ministers, including by assigning him to determine the issues involved in the terms of the condition of society's rules which have adequate improvements. The changes also depend on explaining the history of problems and compromises within the administrative system. Second, there is a set of requirements for consultation with users of the service and special staff for individual groups, the first time laid down in the law. This involves a great upper power for users, where they get to influence the policy of rural society and also the opportunity for rural society to better adapt the ministry to the needs of those using it. Third, negotiate agreements with private members and the application Marketing Authorisations to private members who intend to provide services discussed in the law. The regulations are made in accordance with the requirements set out in the bill to set up services for disabled people with a great deal of support offered along with the bill. Fourth, adjustments are provided to the laws on social services in such a way that services will be not limited to homes but will be extended to activities of daily living and to break social isolation. This service is for all who have persistent or temporary support needs, but it is assumed that when the service needs become greater than 10 to 15 hours a week, special services, including on the basis of the bill of the concomitantly offered, of the services rendered to disabled persons who have a great need for support. Then an individual should have the possibility of making user contracts that include the user's managing how and when he or she receives a service. In this context, we looked to the ideologies of independent life, as stated in Article 19. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and the arrangement of user - controlled personal assistance. How happy we are that we are taking the important step of legalizing the user - controlled personal assistance in this way! Fifth, there is a law on driving, which has been in the laws on the affairs of disabled persons, explained and transferred to law on local social services, where there is a general service for disabled persons, regardless of how much other services are needed. Finally, arrangements for housing procedures are adjusted in accordance with the bill to correct a change in housing law, No. 44/1998, to be reassigned. The bill was submitted to the Council of the Council of 145th, but it did not end. While it suggests general attention to the duties of rural partners in housing laws on housing, the social services legislation will address the distribution of community living communities. Mr. President. I have explained the main subject of the bill, but I believe it contains important legal benefits, both in the services of disabled people, and also in changes in administrative and social services. Both factors are of utmost importance. Increased requirements for government and rural administration have called for effective monitoring along with increased demand for community relations. I allow myself to suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this story. This is a matter that may be directly related to the case we discussed earlier. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to change 26. yr., about the duties of a country partner, which says: ▪ Despite Article 1. rural society is not obliged to render supportive service to institutions such as hospitals and aging institutions. However, cooperation must always be made with the relevant organisation. Today, nursing homes are not just for the elderly. A change in health laws at one time opens up an arrangement where nursing homes are often used as younger ones who need help, as well as nursing care. I wondered if there was a debate over this because it is said to the local community to perform this service when it comes to younger persons who are in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u81	Mr. President. Now I just have to admit that I don't know what this technical point is about working the bill at the time. I believe, however, that this is exactly what it would be right for the committee to examine precisely, i.e. where the line is, and whether the wording of the bill is too narrow or not. We will, of course, be on hand with this, but I think it just needs to take a closer look at that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u82	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and he also urged that the committee take a special look at this law. I know how to make possible that at a nursing home in Mosfellsville, there are young people who have different services than those given in traditional aging institutions. There has been some disagreements between the state and the community as to whether there is more to it than that of individuals or others. It's a case that's not on the top. Minister's at the top. A health minister, but the question is, Should this article also address any differences that might arise regarding the role of a member of that community? I personally felt that younger people in nursing homes would receive this assistance. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to 29. about driving. It's simply because I couldn't look it up earlier. I want to know: Is there any change in the rendering of such expressions? It speaks of disabled people having the opportunity to drive, which means that they can go all the way they can when they cannot take advantage of public transportation. I remind you that the driving services of disabled people, at least here in the capital area, are actually public transportation, although they are specialized for a group of people who cannot benefit from the traditional yellow chariots. I wondered, " Is it really the lawgiver's will to change the arrangement in any way, whether we are not yet discussing the same shape as is available today? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u83	Mr. President. As to the previous inquiry, I think it is necessary to look to the general objective, which is, in fact, that a specific service is required for disabled persons with a very high need for the bill to act as a law we discussed earlier today, which contains the general service that a person should enjoy in the community. Consequently, whether a nursing home is viewed as aging or a nursing home, it must have to look to the same standards, the same basic ones, in this context. Regarding the driving services, the short answer is: No, there is no denatual change in the service being performed today, but there is mainly an sharpening of legal requirements for it, but it should be possible to remain in the same shape as under the hat of public transport, as is now being done in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u84	Mr. President. I think this case is about the same thing as about the case we discussed before, i.e. that many in it are truly positive and share things with those who are disabled. Still, I think it's very important. The welfare committee considered these matters very carefully in context so that no one falls between ships and docks, whether groups that are not highly supportive nor meet the requirements of the law on the other side. I know it's not supposed to be like that, but it needs to be examined. I look forward to seeing as much as I can see the reviews of how we are successful in reaching the spirit of the United Nations Convention. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to what is said about cost-effect assessments by the bill. In the conclusion of the report, we read by permission of the president: ▪ Anticipating the environmental impact of the bill on rural economy, cr. 129 par. County government law, has been consulted by the European Union and does not make the relationship a comment in the Ministry's cost assessment. However, the relationship wants to be consistent with that in the treatment process, people agreed that since there is uncertainty in the budget development of support services, it would be appropriate to set up a consultation committee to monitor the development of costs for the ministry for the next three to five years. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is this process? Is this board of consultation ready? Or will it yet be installed? [[The president calls.]] It is important in these matters, as is the case with others, that the cost of conversation is at least shared.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. I agree that it is of utmost importance, when looking at this contrast between lawgivers in terms of disabled people's affairs, with a great need for much support and back to the general social legislation, that there is no crying territory between them, that it is quite clear that this is not the case. How important it is to be careful that such uncertainty is not readily available in the case of the council here! There should be a very clear separation, and there is no reason to assume otherwise. In terms of costs and the cooperation with rural society, it will be carried out in the way described here, i.e. costs for development in this respect will be very closely agreed between state and rural society. It's very difficult to figure this out. These are major changes in the way services are being performed. When you look at the plan, i.e. our unscrupulous right to independent life, we will go through a process of great learning, and we will see how best to resolve matters of opinion that will arise in the process. There will be little doubt as to the cost. It is imperative that there be a good cooperation there, and this body of cooperation will be set up between the state and the local community to follow through on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u86	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister, please respond. I am glad that he agrees with me that when we are making such changes, it is important to make sure that no one falls between us, of course, there is always a real danger, even though no one is going to give up on it. I believe it is important that this board of consultations be organized sooner than later to consider these matters. It's like there's things you can see right away about costing money, really positive things. For example, I would like to give people support instead of home service. It has been one of the problems with our system, as it is built up today that people have been able to get a service into their own home, which is positive, but the negative side effect of it has been that sometimes people have become some sort of roommates at their own home because they have not been supported for assistance outside the home. I think it's quite certain that changes in this could require extra costs. That's why I'd like to reiterate it, and I'd like to reiterate it to the highest level. Minister of it, if we assume that this bill will be approved, whether it is in this picture or changed according to treatment. The welfare committee, to appoint this committee, will be the first task.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u87	Mr. President. In itself, there is no need for us to have a very long discussion about this. I couldn't agree more. Senator. It's very important and important to keep in mind when introducing, if this bill is legal, that we're following a new path. There are a number of uncertainties that we need to look into and that will call for very close consultation with our rural society. It is important that this discussion be formally introduced, and it will not be necessary to ensure that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u88	Mr. President. There is no basis for long speaking again. I have the advantage of a member of the health committee to discuss these matters, so I can do just one brief reflection. First of all, I celebrate this bill. It is good for these matters to come together and consider the committee, the case that we discussed before and in itself, and in itself, that financial programs are still open. Of course, these matters would have been most desirable, i.e. if you're going to try to make a woman do the right thing in this spring, on which you must be aware, not because you don't want to do the right thing and do what is possible, but you also need to be careful about this job. It involves something that I think is inevitable. I have a strong feeling that among disabled people in the country and their associates and spokesmen, there is high expectations that there will be a significant improvement in these materials, and that is normal. This organization has fought for the induction of the Convention on the rights of disabled people for years and has followed the normal course of Iceland's stealing the dirty words and finishing the work that we've become ashamed of late. There have been strong hopes, and this has still proved to be a turning point in the seminary. I want to believe that they're coming, especially because the approach is that it's changing and ideologies are changing at the highest. Minister only came in, is another. An exit point is now taken to the disabled for their own lives and to the 19th floor. The deal. It will be agreed with the users and their own decision-making rights, as presented here, on the main objective or principles that guide and can be read out of the contract. It may be said that if this becomes reality, as the spirit of the treaty declares, it is finally becoming a participant for the triumphs of the Quartal Community for years: nothing about us apart from us. If these matters were to be handled closely with the person and with their organization and spokesmen, that would be a great improvement. In a few places, efforts have been made, and it has been suggested earlier in the debate that I believe it is a natural thing to be recognized by events of gray areas that have been involved in these activities between the state and the community, and that are less than at all at the time when a group of these acts are involved. Still, it is reasonable to try to have criteria as clearly as possible. I pause there at one point that has only struck me, and that is the phrase on where we have come out of the general ministry and on more specific assistance. It is said that when the need for service becomes greater than 10◯15 hours a week, it will be over. There's a little bit of a waste of it. Of course, one may wonder, " Is it possible to approach the situation with something clearer, whether it is a more consistent standard or some food or any other way of dealing with it? ' I'm thinking out loud because I know from experience that there could be a borders later on that could cause the present. Now it is quite clear that rural society is absolutely responsible and will finance the income products they have been brought into the general contribution. The government will then participate in more specialized and more expensive measures. Therefore, it is not difficult to think that the other person might be inclined to push tasks over some invisible border if they are very floating, to the fact that the State expense department is involved. This is one of the things we can do on a welfare committee. I don't know how well or clearly this is thought about the proposals of the group or the groups, but I haven't really looked at it myself. V.E.G. A minister may have some better answers, but this caught my attention when I saw this in the text and the highest. In fact, a minister read this up in his prehistoric speech. This is not a precise decomposition if it is liquid that it is somewhere between 10 and 15 hours a week. To avoid talking about this much more, I want to finally mention the cost. There is a bit in contrast with the fact that in this case there is a significant improvement that is certainly a ideological in nature and in terms of approach, but this is also to be addressed to the management, treatment and handling of problems and lawsuits within the system, large consultations with users and user councils, a modified definition from what was discussed here, some sort of community community service to general support, which I believe is very important and why. paritaprevir Just before that, the Steinunn Árnadóttir Yearsondo mentioned, if with many more things, there may be significant benefits without any sort of cost at all. However, the main outcome here on cost costs is that the cost is negligible and has little impact on the financial situation of the rural society that it does not result in the need for growth on the part of the State. It is true now that never this habit seems to be the local community not to comment on this cost assessment. That's good. Well, that's it. Yet, because they realize that the budget development is very uncertain, this is a committee of consultations that monitors the development of expenses for the next three to five years. I'm not saying there's any better way in this situation, and really, I'm inclined to believe that this is what makes the most sensible. Then there is a very similar approach to that in 2011, when the entire group of paintings was moved from one country to another. It was faced with considerable uncertainty as to the nature of the budget development, and developed periods of adaptation with various types of government involvement and monopolizement into the changes, and then settled down and assessed the outcome, of course, after a bit of blundering and conflict, but now a good conclusion was reached, for a while, at least, last year. That's what I wanted to stop at, a respectable president. Whether it's realistic to get caught before spring or not, I express my great willingness and positive attitude to cope with the task of trying to bring all of this together in a successful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u89	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the law of housing partnerships. Here, in itself, is a fairly simple matter. This bill was made up at the Ministry of Health, having agreed with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as with the information given to them on housing, Bustura, Bustura, Buints, and Bumans. Among these individuals was the drive taken from the bill to the level of funding for the members. In simple terms, the bill is primarily about the fact that these communities, as well as other financing funds, are being used by bond messages, but a review of laws in their time dropped out such a financing warrant. It is considered to bind the hands of housing partners in a way too broad when it comes to borrowing, where the law is binding to loans from financial companies and loan agencies as it was used here, in order to prevent money laws from being financed in other ways that may be more suitable for them and to be more favorable to them. The bill suggests that housing partners will continue to be allowed to borrow from financial companies and credit institutions as well as to receive support and donations from colleagues. Furthermore, it is suggested that they be allowed to borrow a general market, as well as finance themselves with the publishing of bond bonds. In addition to taking into account the risks involved in financing, the budget can be chosen with the best option and best suited to each member's interests. This further contributes to the sustainable management of such partners, which, once again, increases housing security. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to the highest level. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u90	Mr. President. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is being recommended here for the Commission's committee as well as for the change. The bill includes that five European Commission regulations for the European Commission, the European Social Security and Penitentiary Funds, the European Commission and the European System Assessment Council will be transferred to the Community's legislation, although with the adjustment that the EFTA monitoring agency makes to the main policies of authority which belong to the European Union's established monitoring institutions. The committee was contacted by guests from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs and the Bank of Iceland. In addition to reports from the SEC and the Federal Bank, there were reviews from Copenhagen, Percontency, and financial firms. The majority agree to make changes to the four branches of the bill, first of 3. par.: In view of the majority of the Committee, it is adequate that the adaptation directives under the decision-making of the joint EEA committee should be given the legal value but no need to validate the overall decision. So the majority suggest 2nd. Section 3. The bill will fall away, but it will be referred to in the paragraph to the EEA extension at the European Commission News of 1st. The article. Second of all, 5. par.: In order to make a double difference, Iceland's National Bank will be added to those allowed to provide European observation centres with information and data at 1 mg. The article. Third, 6th. par.: 2 mg. it is said and made clear that there are markets that the Ministry of finance can ask for the same information as 1st. Make the call. Fourth and final, 10 o'clock. which deals with changing other laws. Added to this are the regulations for changing the law on Iceland's Federal Bank, No. 36/2001, to be exact at 35. It adds a new paragraph that clearly states that Iceland's Secret Bank is permitted to provide monitoring authorities of other EU Member States, EFTA institutions and European monitoring institutions in the area of financial activity, related to confidentiality. With these changes, the greater part contributes to the legislation of the bill. It should be noted that the committee talked a great deal about the expeditation of authority in a specific field to the EFTA Monitoring Institute. The majority of it is the opinion that the process of adaptation consists of within the administrative warrants. On the other hand, the fact is that during the induction of activities and regulations, sometimes a very narrow monologue could be held, and it would be desirable for a ruling directive to provide more clear authority in this regard. In view of the greater part, President Óli Björn Kárason, chairman Valdimarsson Steindordarsson, Albert Guðmundsson, Bessí Jóhannsdóttir, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir Bjarnason, while Smári Mccarthy was absent in payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u91	An authority made the mistake of measuring in the wrong direction of the members of the committee, and again the seventh event, financial companies, and official financial monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u92	Mr. President. I apologize to Congress for this sad mistake, but now I'll make the correct recommendation for a committee party. Mr. President. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is recommended here for the Committee to conduct a new budget. 514. The bill includes measuring the obligation of finance and the SEC to have squares to address financial violations. The bill is based on a 71nd par. Directive 2013/36/EU that is scheduled to adopt the European Economic Area Convention. The committee was contacted by guests from the Ministry of Economics and Economics, the Economic Affairs and Personal Protection. In addition to reports from the SEC and Peritoneal Protection, there were reports from the Associations of financial companies and Iceland's Federal Bank. The majority agree to suggest cohesive changes in two paragraphs of the bill, Article 1. and 3rd pars. This is in the light of clear Persian protection tips, which pointed out that some busy people followed anonymous announcements. Anonymity would not prevent others from telling anyone who had reported a violation. You may find it harder to investigate a case where you could not consult the person who announced it. The character protection issues take into account what's going on and what's going on. Peritoneal protection was then found to support the attitude and suggestions offered by European personal protection institutions in these areas. The majority of the committee believe that it is more appropriate to include a report than to keep a secret about the person sent, as expected in 1 mg. b-joins 1. and 2nd Subject 2. Section 3. The bill. Therefore, the majority of the committee feel that it is right to dismiss the indicators of the latter case in Article 1. a-arms 1. and Volume 1 of Contents 2. Section 3. The bill for anonymous reports. Their failure, however, does not rule out that financial or financial systems will receive anonymous announcements, but it makes it more clear that they are not specifically encouraged. The committee arranged for the SEC to meet to support the change, and the check did not make a comment. With these changes, the greater part contributes to the legislation of the bill. Under the view of the greater part, President Óli Björn Kárason, President Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, author of Alaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn, Braudur the Brynjar of Níelsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, in advance, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur, and Vilmur Bjarnason. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir was away at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u93	Mr. President. A smaller section of the committee is anti-replacement of the greater part. Experience shows that the exposed people take a significant risk when they inform about violations and may, among other things, be in danger of losing their jobs and experiencing other economic losses. It is true that in the bill it assumes that trust is maintained for those who report offenses and that they are protected from discrimination. However, it is excluded that their names will leak completely, and they will suffer rejuvenating or other forms of discrimination. Unnamed announcements may be the only means by which a person is able to inform himself of an offense without endangering himself. As in this trace, the Committees of Pernon Guard met in their presence. They pointed out that anonymous notifications may make the investigation more difficult and could cause incorrect announcements to be used to strike others within companies. The smaller section points out that unless there is no easy way to make anonymous announcements, there is a risk that small people are likely to be exposed, which also reduces the possibility of a break at a different level. Inconvincing data on fractures, however, they are made anonymously. In contrast, attempts to bring the wrong information to a person are unlikely to produce results because the truth will finally be revealed. It cannot be overlooked that if there is no clear authority to report an anonymous violation in an enterprise, the anonymous tips could be used to access the media, which is hardly relevant to the company. A majority of the committee points to the lack of anonymous notifications as not a ban on anonymous announcements. However, the failure may lead to the misjudgment that financial companies will not be allowed to pay for anonymous announcements, such as the Internet for anonymous announcements. For good reason, other European countries, such as Denmark and Germany, have special regulations for anonymous reports in their implementation of these laws. As we have seen, the bill is based on a 71nd par. Directive 2013/36/EU. The article intended to introduce clearly indicates that the informants have their personal information protected and enjoy anonymously unless other national laws require the removal of anonymous names for further research or lawsuits. By removing the authority of the workers to make anonymous announcements, we are, in effect, compromising the regulations of the directive. That's not quite good. What would be the point of implementing this law if we were to violate our obligation as Member States to the EEA Convention to respect its contents? The bill is originally submitted so that employees of financial companies can make anonymous announcements. In fact, a greater proportion of the committee is making a change, since there will be no guarantee that people will be able to make anonymous announcements. In fact, I would say that the change in the direction of the majority of the segment completely violates the purpose of the original bill. Even now, in the United States, there is a measure of protection from informers. In III. section of State Department regulations, special techniques and police procedures for criminal investigation, are discussed with informers. In 1 1. It says, by permission of the president: The name and confidence of the operator should be established at all levels of investigation and after the investigation has been completed. Information on the name, social security number, address and other personal information should be kept secret in the study data. In the 9th. says also, by permission of the president: A person who gives police information about crime or men associated with crime and who can expect to be anonymous is a informer. The difference between informers is made, i.e. On one hand, one who is in a strong relationship with the police and the informant who gives the police information without the establishment of an actual information relationship. Police are working so that informants can enjoy anonymous names. Why is there something else that needs to be said about the SEC or financial agents? According to Article 1, the regulations for the protection of media sources can also be found. 25. Act of the press. Despite the fact that there are laws that reveal his name, that information about him may not necessarily be revealed, but may appear and be recorded and anonymous and removed for the sake of research purposes, there is still the technical possibility that the informer may conceal his name when presenting a tip to the FDA. As a result, this law has little effect other than the possibility of flogging a informant from presenting reports to the SEC. In fact, offering anonymity increases the sense of security for those who might want to promote information, which is extremely important when talking about trying to reveal potential violations. So there are many good reasons why we should not make these changes. According to the above, the lesser part contributes to the same approval of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u94	Mr. President. I come up here to make an account of the warnings I have at the Commission's opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee. As noted by members of the Committee's magazine, this is a bill - without me speaking for other members of the committee, I believe. The core objectives of the bill have been strongly agreed on by the Economic and Business Committee - that financial companies have processes to take over and follow the financial announcements of potential offenses and attempted violations of the law and governance proposals that apply to the business's activities. To ensure that a person who accepts announcements will live in independence and that he has sufficient power, resources, and authority to obtain data and information needed to carry out his duties. That the processing and handling of personal information should be in accordance with the personal protection laws and that employees reporting such a violation are protected, i.e. that those who accept announcements should have a silent and trusted employee protected who, in good faith, has reported a violation. The disagreement shown in these committee views is about whether it is right to encourage directly in the law that anonymous tips can be submitted. In politics, not all are simple answers. The questions we are dealing with may not always provide simple answers. In many ways, I agree with the viewpoints reflected in the members of my section, i.e. Yeah. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, in terms of the high risk to the offender who may carry a high risk for his safety. It is noted that it is excluded that the person's name should be leaked completely and that they are subject to revenge or other forms of discrimination. I completely agree with these views. But I also agree with what's stated in the Committee of the Greater part, and I think it's important to explain these laws in the future, I expect the bill to become law, that the members of the leading section are clear that such announcements are not addressed. I feel that it is important to be maintained, both in the members of the greater section and in the talks presented here, that the legislatator's understanding that there is no rules against making anonymous announcements. However, on the other hand, certain evidence on the part of the Persian Guard was presented that it was also important to make the general requirement that the reference would be rather than send information under their names than that it would not be forbidden to accept anonymous indications. I think it's the understanding of the bill, it's going to be a law by these changes of the part, i.e. that people will have to send in such indications under their name, but that they are not completely forbidden or would not accept a hint or send anonymity. And it's important not to be forbidden. I think it's very important for that guy to come up here. I felt that it was important, in view of the fact that I was absent at a meeting where there might be a Persian protection and discussed the matter, to get the opinion of the SEC on this change proposal. As mentioned earlier, the SEC did not make any comments to her. Of course, the answer to these questions is not simple. We can see that the neighboring nations have taken different paths. Denmark and Germany are referred to in a board of committees. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr. Norway and Sweden have taken the way that the greater part suggests here. My conclusion was to sit past this adjustment. Other than that, I support the whole mind of the bill's objective and will pay my vote to them. But these are the explanations of the warnings I put here at the latter opinion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u95	Mr. President. So here it is recommended that more part of the Economic and Business Committee be made up of the committee and the requested changes. 593. The bill includes that five European Commission regulations for the European Commission, the European Social Security and Penitentiary Funds, the European Commission and the European System Assessment Council will be transferred to the Community's legislation, although with the adjustment that the EFTA monitoring agency makes to the main policies of authority which belong to the European Union's established monitoring institutions. The committee was contacted by guests from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs and the Bank of Iceland. In addition to reports from the SEC and the Federal Bank, there were reviews from Copenhagen, Percontinental Protection, and financial organizations. The majority agree to make changes to the four branches of the bill, first of 3. par.: In view of the majority of the Committee, it is adequate that the adaptation directives under the decision-making of the joint EEA committee should be given the legal value but no need to validate the overall decision. So the majority suggest 2nd. Section 3. The bill will fall away, but it will be referred to in the paragraph to the EEA extension at the European Commission News of 1st. The article. Secondly, change in 5. par.: In order to make a double difference, Iceland's Federal Bank will be added to a group of those allowed to provide European observation centres with information like 1 mg. The article. Third, 6th. par.: It suggests 2nd. if you have a comment and make it clear that there are markets that the Ministry of finance can ask for the same information as 1st. Make the call. Fourth and final, change of 10. which deals with changing other laws. Added to this are the regulations for changing the law on Iceland's Federal Bank, No. 36/2001, to be exact at 35. It adds a new paragraph that clearly states that Iceland's Secret Bank is permitted to provide monitoring authorities of other EU Member States, EFTA institutions and European monitoring institutions in the area of financial activity, related to confidentiality. With these changes, the greater part contributes to the legislation of the bill. It should be noted that the committee talked a great deal about the expeditation of authority in a specific field to the EFTA Monitoring Institute. The majority of it is the opinion that the process of adaptation consists of within the administrative warrants. On the other hand, the fact is that during the induction of activities and regulations, sometimes a very narrow monologue could be held, and it would be desirable for a ruling directive to provide more clear authority in this regard. Under the view of much of it, President Óli Björn Kárason, President Valdimarsson Steindordarsson, author Albert Guðmundsson, Bessí Jóhannsdóttir, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy was away from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u96	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir The author of the major part, Jón Steinddor Valdimarsson, studied in his speech earlier on a hugely extensive case involving establishing a European monitoring system in a financial market designed to protect the public's interests, securing a better policy on the financial market, and promoting a measure of stability in the European financial market, in the internal market of the European Economic Area. There's four new institutions being proposed. In fact, the European Union has already completed the establishment of new institutions on their side that will be involved in banking, insurance and pension management, stock market and system risk management. As noted, after a substantial discussion in the field of EFTA and the joint EU Commission and the relevant minister between the EFTA and the European Union, it was decided to do a so-called two-stempered approach to the EFTA monitoring agency as the support of the EFTA centre and the role of the bank monitoring agency, the insurance and pension fund of the Agency, the stock market and the World Risk Management Board were expected to take care of it. That's exactly what happened. A senator, in which the Commission, other governments, individuals and legislators are allowed to provide information and information to European institutions as detailed in these or other laws. This also allows European monitoring institutions to provide EFTA monitoring centres, or after events of other institutions in the EEA sector to access information. There is considerable authority on how to provide information at the same time, but at the same time, EFTA has considerable authority to make decisions that affect the Icelandic financial market. As for this, I would like to say two things: I believe, and it is stated in my committee program that increasing emphasis on financial management is normal and in many respects the response to the financial breakdown is very consistent. I want to say, first of all, that it was very difficult for me to tell you if any of the types introduced here last autumn were in conflict with Iceland's constitution, i.e. Whether the proposed authority in these types would be large enough to conflict actually with the Icelandic constitution. It's a long, long story. But I find it especially important to point out in the context that in Norway this introduction was regarded as a so - called major exuberance, which calls for the support of more part of the Parliament, or three fourths of the council, but these types were created at the same time in Liechtenstein, Iceland, and Norway, and Norway is the state that we most compare with within this Union, EFTA. The induction was finally adopted in Norway, and it was achieved for a much greater extent, but there was a significant debate, and there was a significant conflict over whether these types were the extenuating authority to overnational authority. But here in Iceland, we have no law in a constitution, like what? An executive pointed out, where it is defined as how far you can go in handing out authority. We have in the council in the past decade, if I take only the time I've been here, and repeatedly, and all too often, we're involved in the induction in which it is being continued in the process of handing out certain authority to the super-national institutions. Asked: Will we continue this process? Everyone accepts that these authorities are being handed over, even though they are in a specific area. We do not have authority in a constitution to hand over such sources. In the PUB report of the Commission during the last term, it says, with the permission of a president: In the past few years, while there has been a record of government expeditation to the international institutions, there have been some unregistered regulations in the United States, increasing national cooperation, in particular cooperation with the EEA Treaty, has given rise to speculative sources and, in some cases, a cause of controversy. This recommends that the rules of the Commission on this matter be set aside and explained, and I opposed it during the last council to perform this procedure, since I believe that we have gone too far in our approval here at the General Assembly of Authority in different fields, although that is certainly always in a limited field. But when we look at it, I believe we've gone too far. We owe ourselves and our Constitution to set in place a clear law on how such a deed should be performed. I believe it is very important that such a law be limited, i.e. has been used solely for the purposes of authority in a specific field. To be honest, I had to be completely disappointed when suddenly I lost sight of it in the work of the Board of Directors during the last term to continue working on that law. It is no secret that the requirement was most clearly stated by the advance group who adopted such a resolution at their national meeting, which made it possible for the present greater things simply to fall away from that law into a constitution. I find it sobering if we do not rely on ourselves to discuss it from our attitude toward the European Union or what it is now. I don't want to walk in the European Union. It's just not far from me at all. But I also want us to be content with the way we deal with our constitution. The fact is, we are in international cooperation, and we have the authority to provide authority in limited fields. We need to be 100% sure that in this room we do not wear this on the constitution. When the introduction was accepted at its time, executive managers such as Björg Thorarensen, who said, "It's just too far. Others disagreed. But at the time, it seemed to me that this case would have been overemphasized. We know that it was a tremendous pressure from our European partners that we were driving this through, that everyone would be waiting for us. But that does not make me feel that I was not good enough to do so. As a result, I find it very difficult to support this matter, even though the purpose of the law is the way I described it earlier. I also mention, and that's the other thing I'd like to mention in my story about this committee opinion, that I agree with the goals that appear in the Regulation. It is very important that laws and rules be clear, that there is an independent and effective monitoring of the financial system. It is worth considering whether or not we need to strengthen our surveillance tools, such as the FES, in view of the great demands we put on its shoulders in connection with all these induction through the EEA Convention. But we also need to ask ourselves that question, and there's more and more to me than that, in view of the fact that we have all this rule in the last crisis, and everyone in politics tells us that the next crisis will never be like the last one - here we are initiating very technical, complex regulations. We also know that as soon as we finish this, there are all sorts of experts outside the financial economy who prepare financial companies for these challenges. I know that no doubt everyone there is doing it wholeheartedly. But what is the real effect on what can be called the value of the financial system? Will the public experience changes in the financial system? Yes, things have changed. Only if we look at regulations and laws and things like that. But has our thinking changed? I'll roll it up here at the end. I'd like to say, however, that it's been very good for me to sit on a financial and business committee during the months that have been passed by this council to make me feel that everyone is willing to take a certain financial discussion as such. There are many good things that have been shown in discussions at the Committee on the Future View of the financial system. There are some things that each of us has been discussing here, perhaps without realizing its interaction with the EEA principle. I'd like to present some ideas on how to place possessions, which may not be possible from the EEA Convention. There have been ideas in the council of Congress that I have proposed to separate business banks and investments, which I think are important for us to discuss, too. To talk about where we feel normal and whether it is reasonable for the State to have a certain responsibility for the business of financial companies. And if we say yes to that: Wait, what business? Should the State be responsible for investment banking or for some specific thing? That is the way that has gone in Britain, where the government really takes on a certain responsibility for what attracts homes and smaller companies, but not on larger ones. There are a lot of things that we haven't done that we know in the legal process of the financial world in Iceland where we have, of course, and that we have naturally been loaded by implementing the European principle. I believe, however, that the Icelandic government can do much better by examining the unique identity of the Icelandic financial market as a nature of a matter in some respects laws other than Europeans, since we are as small as we are, and the impact on the public as much as it did when the financial system fell last time. Let's hope it doesn't happen again, but it sounded a little like that. We need to ask ourselves, " What do I want to do and how? ' We want to ensure that what we can call a different bank function. Is this being done in the legal setting? Then I give a witness to what we know from fellow workers in foreign lands. The other day, I took advantage of the opportunity to examine it when I was in a foreign country. They are back in Germany in an enormous attack, as well as in a considerable attendance in the North countries. Then there may be savings, which is more consistent with modern times than with those we used to know in the past. These are all questions that I find important to answer. I'd like to thank you for the discussion that's been in the field. The Economic and Business Committee on these matters. But the warning words I'm saying here are: It's certainly important to stand behind those rules and what you try to do, but we must also be aware that these rules do not necessarily prevent the next crisis. We must also be aware that laws and regulations do not necessarily work if values and culture remain unchanged. I think we also owe our financial resources to be careful about this matter. They are extremely important for employment and for the public in the country. We're all in business with a Icelandic financial company. It is important, and it is a challenge for governments and the Generals to see that what we do here contributes to making greater peace in the community on this Icelandic financial system, for it is, of course, a matter of opinion as to how slow it has been. There is a lot of talk about trust in the General Assembly, but it is also worth considering how successful it is to build trust in the financial system. That's where I think we can do better. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. Thus, on the one hand, the big issues involved are the values of the financial system and the administrative issues that make up our left movement, representing the left, green anexchange. Under these circumstances, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylffjordsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u97	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, moved here many times. I'm not going to try to deal with it or discuss it all. But I agree with that. A senator says it's a huge deal. I also have full sympathy with that view, as I believe, in my case in the majority list, that we are attempting a monolevel in a administrative perspective. I can't help but agree with that. A senator said it was desirable that this would be in the best interests of his life. You see, I can totally agree with that. Since the Norwegian Constitution was referred to, the Norwegian constitution is so fortunate that it has been a mere vision and a set of regulations that are about exactly how these changes should be done. I don't think that that's the case, unfortunately, for cleaning up, discussing such things seriously or discussing them to the end. A senator also mentioned a part of the European Union. She said that she didn't like it, but I'm back in the mood again. I still think this is getting in the way. Many people believe that if we face the international cooperation that we are involved in, it simply calls out, regardless of the question of Iceland's involvement in the European Union or not. I take my heart to the viewpoints that were wooded here, although the greater part, including the person who stands here, feels that this will go for the corner this time. This needs to be discussed. And in general, I agree with financial market trust, as well. A senator that it is vital that we succeed in strengthening trust and making good use of the Icelandic financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'll start with the second thing he mentioned here, with trust: Yes, I think it's an important project. I think it's important that we, as members of the legislature authority, do what we can to build trust in the financial system. It must also rest upon us who are handling legal matters to ensure that the financial system can live with as healthy and normal a working environment as possible. It is easier to point to those who work in that system, but it is more important for us to try to keep the background in order to build up the wholesome financial system that we all want and care about. It is important that we be able to ensure public and professional life - everyone has to be in business with a bank - a decision in that area, but I think that to some extent it is underestimated. Although it's not a custom to ask when an answer is answered, I allow myself to ask a question about this law; possibly answer the question. A senator to her. Even though I did. A senator is an urgent consideration of the European Union. I believe we agree on the need for legal requirements in a constitution. In fact, I feel that there are often confusions in the discussion. In a limited field, it is possible to set a very clear standard for extending authority, which has nothing to do with the European Union. If such a law should include the European Union, it would actually have to be a matter of great universal authority, i.e. Not in a specific area, for we would be entering a system where we would not just be talking about the marked aspects of lawgiver, execution or judicious authority. So I think it can be done perfectly regardless of people's opinion of the European Union. Well, I know that in a government contract there's a review of the Constitution, but I'll admit that I've been very much afraid to learn about some of that review. Maybe a what? A senator informed us or at least about his position on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u99	Mr. President. I've got to feel bad. A senator by which I cannot help her with the situation of that matter. However, regarding the general constitution and what we agree on, i.e. to improve the growth of power to foreign institutions in support of foreign cooperation, and to say that this can be done in at least two ways, i.e. On the other hand, if it occurred in the future that Iceland wanted to walk in the European Union, it would be a set of rules that could be taken in that context. I believe that if we're on another level, we agree that the Constitution needs to provide for things, and that we need to fix it in this respect, I think it would be very wise to think about this. Because we in itself do not know what could happen within the next ten years, or five or fifteen, in international cooperation, which involves a similar exuberance to some extent, such as involvement in the European Union. Then I think it's far better to be prepared for such things than having the constitution completely incomplete and incomplete in that respect. I think we should have the strength and courage together to modernize the constitution in this respect so that it could cope if it did. Although there is a legal requirement, this does not mean that it is a promise to apply it to the full. I think we should look to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. After the discussion of this exhilaration - I totally understand why. A senator is saying that it is normal to walk all the way and to have perfect exposition in some way, and in itself it does not surprise me to hear that stand - but I think it is very unlikely that it will be accepted. What you would like to see is that during this terms you would want to make some adjustments. Hv. A senator noted in his previous objection that the Norwegians had succeeded in installing this in their constitution. There are also so many things that we do not share in ourselves. For example, I can mention the regulations of the Environment Committee, which are sorely lacking in our constitution. I think it would be more reasonable to go along with a set of limited expeditors that they are now, that having such expedients would be a more specific and new decision, especially because I appreciate it as a more reasonable and more likely way to make peace. I'll read why. However, a senator is an amateur who will be started again on the affairs of the Constitution. He'll nod up here. I hope that exhortation comes from a company party by the river. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u101	Mr. President. I thank you for your background, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, very much for history. She was very interesting. I can agree with many of those things. A senator said, especially when it comes to sales. I'll share the concern of the senator of sales to the international institutions. I think it would be worth it for us here at the council Hall to discuss this matter thoroughly, but we almost run between the bills. This is one of the major subjects we should consider. However, I strongly warn that when people change their constitution, they do so in ways that everything is open and that they can deliver anything sold to international or national institutions, etc. I think that's where we're at. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter completely agreed. On the other hand, I did so by reason of the problem. A senator wondered, though, that in certain areas, there would be a vote, even more than the most stringent interpretations in Iceland's constitution, if I had just noticed, in certain areas. However, I did not realize if it was then. the areas we deal with here, i.e. The financial market, or whether it has something else in mind. It would be fine if it were. A senator could tell me about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson answers. To answer that question, I think he is quoting what I said earlier, that there have been authority given here in certain areas. Generalis's conclusion - not necessarily my conclusion - has been that it had to do with a constitution. We're discussing the financial system. There have been expedient authority on flying, drug business, and so forth. The conclusion each time at the General Assembly has been to say: "Yes, it is being handed over in this particular field, but we do not believe it would conflict with a constitution. What I reasoned in my speech earlier was that in the ten years I have been here, this has happened several times. Government executives have expressed concern that there are simply building examples in which the Constitution's long - standing endurance is always further and further. That is why it can be said that when this big case developed, which we know is defined, for example. In this way in Norway, as a major exposé, it was at least My conclusion that I couldn't accept it, agrees with it once again, because I've previously agreed to hand out authority in some particular area, reasoning that this was not going too far this time. At least I can't accept this one more time. I feel like we've come to that place, and I think I understand why. The senator rightly agreed that we need to take this discussion. There is a need, I agree, on a more detailed discussion of it, not just about this change in constitution. That change is needed, for we cannot argue in a chamber about whether we are going against a constitution or not so that we really have an issue to rule over it. However, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator says that this authority is not supposed to be systemic. [[The president calls.]] It is to be confined to a limited degree so that we can actually fulfill the responsibilities we already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I was very disappointed when I learned that we could not make our own personal decision at the Allied Council of Iceland to introduce certain restrictions on financial resources because we had renounced their rights in the EEA Treaty. That shocks us, and it must make us think about it. This small example, which is not the largest, may in the course of time be of concern to us when we begin to take into account the future planning of a financial market, prevent cross-country, and that there will be large financial groups closer to each other, as we have discussed in a financial and business committee, and we are expanding into such discussions. It was disappointing, I'll admit it. I had big words, I think, here on a talk on the necessity of doing so, and then it turns out that there was no more material in that speech than that. We are now, particularly in the Economic and Business Committee, dealing with very complex matters, very complex financial regulations. We're also on the income side of financial programmes, etc. I wondered: " Can we agree on that, we can? A senator, that it is time for the legislature legislature to ensure that there can be a special knowledge in the Council's Committee, so that members of the Generals are prepared to acquire knowledge within the house, advisers, but not constantly under the heels of poverty, financial resources, and special interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u104	Mr. President. There we are. A senator wholeheartedly agreed. Of course, it is not okay for the Council to be fully dependent on the Commission on expertise in order to form the European financial principle. It is a huge matter where members of Congress are in position to have to seek their association abroad after the political discussion that has taken place, for, yes, we are politicians, not officials, and though all the members of the General Assembly, I'll take it out, we simply need more men in this expertise. I had a conversation with the highest. The prime minister associated this with the financial program in which I described my concern about the General Assembly, for except for the new building to rise, we do not see much increase in the expert costs of the Generals, which is exactly what I believe is a great lack in this house, especially in connection with new government laws, their introductions, and how we should work at them. It was, of course, in that discussion. I got it. I got it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee will continue and will be stuck with it in applying for committees, e.g. Economic and business committees, get additional access to specialists. It is, of course, an unpleasant situation ahead of us. Councilmen taking a stand on matters solely from the Commission, which obliges a particular political regime and then possibly from theismal organisations to have developed expertise in this field. Of course I think that in this complex legal environment, and I remember it well when. A senator spoke for scattered property and joined him in saying that it was a pretty good idea, we mean why. Councilmen being able to gain greater control over putting us in not only technical aspects but also the political aspects of the regulations under which we live and so deeply influence our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u105	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to speak here for the full room, or so. No one else in the gym. [[Foreground on, yes, me.]] All right. But here we'll discuss a bill to legalize European financial monitoring systems. Sadly, I was absent from this case on a committee. I had decided to submit my opinion here and now in the shortest case. I agree with the estimate of the greater portion in most things and also with many comments of the smaller parts of the case, i.e. the lower part of the left green. Budget control has been very lacking. With this bill, there's a certain improvement that's just very good. However, you should check that the patch is a relatively small patch for a large lesion. The problem is that they are trying to build a system that is basically bad in many respects. This is not making any basic changes to that system. It is merely creating more monitoring. For example, Ricardos theory of competition might be referred to as showing how some countries develop toward a certain degree of expertise. Today, it is well - known that some countries have made quite special decisions in causing economic and social damage to other communities and countries. We call them "country." There are about 60 of them in the world. Some of these are included in the European Union, which these monitoring systems implement. Although one of them is on the way out, I conclude that there are limits to how much bite there is in controlled surveillance agencies. But the bite isn't nothing. It's something. It's better than nothing. All right. However, the European Bank Control Agency, the European Social Security and Penitentiary Fund, the European Penitentiary Centre and the European System Risk Management Board are more likely to improve the situation than the same state of state. As a result, I support the success of this matter. I also support the modification proposals of the greater part of the case. But saying so, I also agree with a question. paritaprevir Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, Jacob's, of controlled warnings in a sense. In 1st. on this matter, I discussed the question of a double surveillance system in relation to the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention. I think, in this case, it's not really spreading the power structure specifically, it's just creating an even greater space within the EEA Convention, which was a natural considerable supply of power at its time. It's complicated, all right. In fact, an example has been established in the production of the EEA at its time and in the repeated exposé of the sovereignty, so consistently that it is no longer possible to talk about the current constitution as relevant in this respect. I'm sorry. It will not clear up without a new constitution or a largely restitution of all our international activities. I don't see that the latter is about to happen. Piranians talk a lot about the new constitution, and it is one of our conflicts that the constitution written and approved by the nation will be adopted. There would be one way to fix this problem. How uncomfortable it is to be between a rock and a sledgehammer in this case to have to resolve between the Constitution and reducing the possibility of misuse of the financial system! We know that such abuse has caused us considerable damage not long ago, just at the same time that we discovered the depth of the present constitution. I'm sorry, but I think it's all too late trying to save the respect of the existing constitution. It would be to improve a considerable amount of our legislation and our treatment on matters of Congress if we could, with greater confidence, talk about administrative and administrative matters. That we would not always need to consider these warnings and whether we are violating a constitution of authority. Although I think the EEA contract works for this particular time, simply because it has been developed and experienced, and that this may not be the extent of an expansion, especially in view of the fact that there has been a way that seems acceptable within the EEA agreements in other countries, it is arranged that conversation of this kind will never get far enough without these questions coming up unless we are going to finish the new constitution adopted in national law paid for several years, because that is really what this is all about. We're trying to fix a major defect in our financial system, fix the monitoring necessary by means of a financial system designed directly to help some people out of other people. We need this surveillance. Everybody knows that. We saw what happened in the crash, and we saw what happened to the crisis that struck a large part of the world not so many years ago. And if we had a proper constitution that allows us to do what we have to do, without always questioning whether it's legitimate or not and trying to get us out of this with some kind of justification and nonsense, we just need a new constitution. It's long since come to light. And we're lucky to have it. She's fine, she's fine, we should agree with her, but in the meantime, we can accept this case, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u106	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for a European monitoring system on financial markets. As we've come to this point, we're still here. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, to the minority of a financial and business committee as a matter of course. A senator was well - versed, especially in the administrative terms available and made clear in this case, where it is clear that the EFTA Institute of Observation is here given considerable authority in one form or another. I agree with what was presented. A senator and other members of Congress say that deeper discussions need to be taken, not running away. But as I said, I will be very much by myself, or by myself. Since I'm in favor of deeper discussions rather than running, I'm not going to go to any depth in speculations or arguments about it, but I'm going to look at it and hopefully draw a little more attention to the surveillance tools we've already got here in the country, and we're getting on the bill. As stated in the opinion of the lesser part we are currently on the job, the national monitoring tools we already have must be reinforced along with the implementation of the monitoring principle through the EEA Convention. That is well, but we must not forget to look at ourselves and strengthen our own defenses against adversity, as well as to strengthen our own self - confidence in the weaknesses found in our own system. In these momentous times, when we face one of the greatest reorganizations of the Icelandic banking and financial system we have already undertaken, most of the financial system owned by the State will be released from the arms of the state. Yes, there is a need for practical action. In his discourse on March 2, we read. said the highest. Secretary of the budget when he recommended the case, by permission of the President: I would like to conclude that I think it is very important that the bill succeeds in strengthening the financial markets in this country and in ensuring the successful membership of Iceland at the EEA Convention. V.E.G. The minister further said: By legalisation of this bill, Iceland receives access to the European monitoring system in financial markets. We already have access to the European financial monitoring system. Although we're discussing this bill, we're already members of that system. For our own surveillance and orderliness, I would like to point out that the International Cash Fund reports repeatedly warn us of the laxness of the Regulation and the follow-up that we already have in the financial market here. No matter how good the UN is, it needs to be strengthened and its authority as much as the implementation of a financial rule in the European Economic Area. If I limit only the criticism AGS has shown in its national records. Now, in the last June of June, AGS's national report, its criticism is quite unusual because of its harshness and impenetrableness. In fact, the World Bank simply says that the Department of Economic Affairs lacks teeth and independence and is under the heel, if not thumbs or both, on finance ministers and needs to strengthen it by all means and by its independence. It has been observed in 2014 when we adopted the Basel Institute and that in this process it has clearly stated the scope and scope of the State Department's Regulation and Legal Regulation. The criticism presented in the World Bank of Economics, the latest, also has little to do with the opinion that has been presented between Iceland's Secret Bank and the Economic Commission and the gray zone that has not been clearly defined between who does what and where the responsibility is in the monitoring of the bank and financial system. I think it is absolutely necessary that we do not rely solely on the implementation of the financial system in the European Economic Areas, which were properly intact and intended to deal with the weaknesses that were exposed to the financial collapse there. We have to do our own homework while these inductions are involved. Therefore, we need to take a deeper discussion in the Economic and Business Committee on the role of the UNECE and its future role in our own regular work and setting up in this country. The famous economist, John Kay, wrote about surveillance and financial market surveillance. It is not just a matter of setting regulations and surveillance, it is necessary to look into the depth a little more. The roots of the failures of the financial system, which we experienced so strongly on our own in 2008 and other countries in connection with the economic collapse in both Europe and the United States, are cultural. They are found in some kind of values that we have promoted in our culture about the kind of surveillance systems we want to maintain in our community. This may seem too deep to many to think that there is no need for a philosophical debate when we approach this subject. However, this is one of the things we need to keep in mind when we consider what sort of changes in the financial system's system of things we are going to produce and establish in our society. What kind of vision do we have on our bank and financial systems? Do we want to go to the old, watered-out ideologies that made us fall around the financial collapse, and bring in the so-called salasizez-faire when it comes to markets and financial markets and banking systems? Are we really going to fall back into that trap? I don't think anyone in here or anywhere else in New York wants to go back that way. But I think we also need to wonder when we make such big decisions about future surveillance systems, the financial market in this country, about going to the depths of that discussion, exactly as we need to go on the depth of the discussion. We've been aware of the future development of the financial and banking system here on the country in a good way on the Economic and Business Committee. We have called upon our good guests and have received ideas, opinions, and visions of experts regarding the Icelandic financial system. I think it's good. I'd like to commend the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, now in the hall, for the good we receive our requests in the memory of our visit to discuss these matters on the depth. I think there will be a discussion that will be discussed most of the time. It breathes from old ideologies when I wonder, since I spoke of the salasizez-fare, that the left people are often criticized for wanting more control and more orderliness. This is certainly not true because we simply want to have the system, market, and financial system that can be trusted and built up here by some kind of value and culture that we can all agree with, so that we do not fall into the pits that have been found short distances when it comes to financial and banking systems. We do not have the same experience as other nations did, except for the painful experiences of the crash. I think we need to walk slowly through the door of joy, at least a problem of action, and increase our confidence in setting our own sights on the surveillance systems we want here, and in accordance with Icelandic circumstances, strengthening existing institutions, while enforcing a good work done by the European Economics. I think we all have the common goal that we want to prevent tragedy, we want to make room for the weaknesses found in the Icelandic financial market. But in order to do so, we need to go to a little more depth and ponder over what John Kay says, i.e. what our value is and how our culture is when it comes to this order. Do we have to give more money to the FDA so that they can do their jobs? Or do we need to make suggestions for further authority from the SEC? Do we need to ask ourselves, " Am I supposed to have a better partnership? ' Or do we need to sort out the standards there are, the overlap between these institutions in our community? These are all the questions we need to ask ourselves and take into consideration discussions as we bring in a European monitoring law here. Icelandic financial and Icelandic banking systems are different from the bank and financial systems of millions of people. It has its own characteristics. But now that we are engaged in this rousing, unique in Icelandic history, we need to be careful about how we act and shape our own view and course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u107	A respectable president. This speech is different. paritaprevir The Bishop Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Björn's daughter drew my attention, not because there may be a small amount of power here to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, but because the senator actually talked about handing over some part of the legal rights to the FDA, i.e. That the SEC does not have legal authority, that it does not have a legal authority. In fact, the power of rules is based on laws, and this is the Council of Government, which has that authority. Do I understand correctly that the senator expects counsel to be in force? The F.A. is authorized to offer a number of guidelines and has called for the authority they feel may need. It happens from time to time, when you're overlooked - and here, you're speaking from an experience that has more reminders than any person from the SEC; I have two reminders from the FDA, one in force, so I know a little bit about it. Am I mistaken for the republic government? Is the SEC apt to administer legal authority? I'll finish my case for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason very much for this answer. To further explain my case, I was simply quoting the World Bank Department report from last June, where the above comments are made on the rule of what the Icelandic financial and banking systems are doing. This national report, as before, has pointed to certain features. The World Cash Fund points out that the SEC has insufficient legal authority. There are other points that the World Bank and Financial Fund points out in its annual report, and has done over the years, regarding the weaknesses that can be found in the Icelandic banking and financial system and its preparation and regulations. I'm not going out here on the Generals delivering revolutionary ideas. I'm simply pointing out those comments. These comments are, in my opinion, such as the lack of teeth and independence in order to perform the necessary and legal functions, so there is no need for distribution. Hv. A senator well knows that in the leading of the 2008 economic collapse, one of the biggest critical issues was the lack of supervision of bank operations and financial functions. So it is my opinion that in order to give a serious talk about supporting the work of a financial system, we need to consider all the factors that come from partners like the World Bank and Financial Fund. That's what I meant in my speech, if it's been misunderstood.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u109	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I hope legal laws are not to be given to the various institutions of society. There have been a number of financial legislation that has been authorized to establish regulations and even regulations in the area where this is divided between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs. In principle, I disagree because there was no authority at any time in the SEC. If the F.O. is joining banks to back up the bank, it's not a lack of authority, it's just a wrong position within the FDA. That's what happened in the past. The F.O. had all the sources, and financial surveillance is a relatively simple thing. There's no rocket science, if you want to enforce normal financial surveillance. Then I've been doing this in addition to the reminders I've received from the SEC. I believe that in the bill discussed here, we are being given limited authority to an institution to which Iceland is involved. There was this discussion, when political notices were removed here at the council, in a synonym, so I believe the SEC has the authority it needs to call for. The F.A. has never pointed out that a source they feel they need has been denied. So it's all about new-free thinking, etc. I believe there is one place in Physala that I believe belongs, and it is within the council of the Left Green or the Common Community, or what's its name.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u110	If you've missed it, then you've missed it. paritaprevir In 1998, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's day when the left movement was set up to form a green supply. I want to tell you what, too. Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's senator that I've never been a member of the Common Community, but I'm a member and a member of the Parliament for the left movement a green bid. I think we're sailing into a very interesting political philosophical discussion, me and my partner here, okay? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. It may well be a problem. A senator thinks this is a silent, innocent conversation. It so happens that this innocent talk, as he calls it, the novelisticism, was preconceived in the crisis of economic crisis. If anyone's talking about talking and making it small, I ask the person to think it over a little bit. For the claim which was made in answer to that which was spoken. The senator, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's partner, has had enough authority here in the rescue of the crash, and I'll repeat what I came in here. It just didn't have it at all. The SEC had been progressively weakened to the point of economic collapse. It seems to me that the present government of Independence Company, the bright future, and the restoration is not very interested in strengthening the SEC as necessary as it needs, neither with money nor with legal support. So I'd be fine and interesting to hear, out of my mouth. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason's son, what his ideas are about strengthening the surveillance work and regulations, prevents traumas such as the economic breakdown. Does he agree with what economist John Kay has written about the need to examine the values and culture in the communities as well, not just the rule of surveillance, but a deep discussion of these things? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u111	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee'sium and to change the bill to legalize the social law, private partnership laws and the laws of auto-employed institutions. The Economic and Business Committee was contacted by Sigurbjörg Stella Jónsson from the Ministry of Business and Development and the head Skúli state tax. There were a few reviews. The bill suggests that there is a change in social legislation, private partnerships, and auto-regional institutions. This change is intended to simplify the legal environment, but at the same time minimise the misuse of the Society's forms, and to address the comments of the EFTA monitoring centre for the home-set conditions. It is important to note that when it comes to preventing misuse of society, there is a change in the ability to provide partial funds for the institutions of the members and private members of the organisation with the requirement for founders, loss of appropriate executives and executives members and private partner members to be placed in the management board and to perform the work of the Commission and the registration of the administrations and of the European Commission in such cases. It is important to note that the Economic and Business Committee presents several adjustments. They're for harmony first. These are word changes to maintain unity in the bill, but the adjustment of 30 is also proposed. ., that it is spoken in the manner of the committee's opinion, or the changes it makes, and that I do not go on any further. However, it is important to note that the employment organization made a comment to the bill and encouraged the search for ways to establish automatic monitoring of capable executives and managers. The committee agrees that there is a right way to increase self - control in these areas. Unfortunately, there is no available route at this time, so the committee does not suggest further adjustments in the requirements for this particular occasion. Under the committee, Óli Björn Kárason, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Albert Guðmundsson, and Bessí Jóhannsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who in advance wrote in Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur's daughter, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjoff's daughter. Smári Mccarthy was away from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u112	The president would like to state that the error was in President's manuscript when he read that it was the majority opinion of the Economic and Business Committee. It is true that this is one common concern from the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u113	A respectable president. All I wanted was a few short notices from the committee's opinion that I and what. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and Lilja Alfreðsdóttir have made, but it's the case of a monstrosity which comes into the attention of the Association of the Business, which made a comment to the a- team 9. ... anda-a- team 21. The bill and urged the search for ways to establish automatic surveillance of competent directors and managers. The available routes are not available at this time. A few discussions were made on this point on the committee scene. The committee, as mentioned in this article, agrees that there is a right way to further self - control in this subject, but because there is no available, and the committee did not suggest any further adjustments to the requirements, we members of the Parliament felt that we were paying attention to the committee. All I ever wanted to do was draw attention to what was going on in front of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u114	A respectable president. The Environment and Transport Committee covered this matter with a number of visitors and many reviews. The committee has met up with her discussion on the case, so she returned the only committee I recommend here. An enforcing law on the subject went into effect in 2001. A bill to legalize commercial transport was submitted to the 144th C.E. but could not succeed. The bill on this subject is somewhat simpler in format; it is not intended to make changes in existing legislation beyond what is necessary for the introduction of the EU types and to restore normalization in order to allow regulations to be implemented. The bill is intended to secure or strengthen recovery prior to the introduction of five types of soil transport. I'm going to go over here only the changes the committee proposes to be made on this bill. First only about private rights, according to Article 7. There was a lot of discussion within the committee on page 7. the bill that states that the road structure can provide rural, regional, and national components of rural society with the exclusive right to organize and care for regular passenger transport in certain areas, routes, or guides. A similar law is now found in Article 7. track No. 73/2001. In accordance with the directive, roadmaking can provide exclusive rights where this is thought to be necessary to ensure public interests throughout the year, including that it should be realized that the service of regular passengers in the affected area will not be run on a business basis. The Commission emphasizes the importance of public transport and believes that it is necessary to provide the exclusive right to specific conditions fulfilled so that the premise can be assured of a basis for offering public transportation network all over the country on a full year - long basis. For 2 mg, see Figure 1. The law says that competition should be allowed to remain in the area where it already exists. For this reason, the Committee has reason to say that it does not consider driving a group road part of a year, in ways that enjoy exclusive rights, that there is a competition in the sense of the law. The Commission gives forward comments from local representatives that the objective of this law is to protect public transportation, on the basis of road contracts with national bodies. This points to the changes made by the committee at the bill, and members of the Parliament can study. I may go over it a little later, but I'm going to try to address the big issues the committee took sides and proposes a change. Another such issue is the use of smaller automobiles than nine passengers. Many of the managers and visitors of the Committee on this matter called for permission to use cars for less than nine passengers. In particular, the basis for change in these areas minimized the safety, environmental protection, and practicality of the environment. It would likely be driven by small groups to far larger vehicles than required because the program did not authorize the use of smaller vehicles on such vehicles. Among other things, they called for travelers to adopt a special travel agency permit, just as they had added to the above bill to legalize passengers for employment at the 144th legislature. Agents from a cab driver's line have in their comments, and on the committee, they met the opposite viewpoint and opposed the change to the one mentioned here. They believe that by allowing companies in travel services to drive smaller than nine passengers, they would be involved in the activities where cab vehicles are restricted to driving with less than nine passengers. The committee suggests a change in driving smaller cars, while nine passengers will be authorized by the law in the case of routine passenger transport according to 7rd. c., high school driving, driving for travel services to disabled people under law on disabled people's affairs and in travel services to meet specific criteria according to special travel permits. The model of a travel service permit is applied to the above - mentioned standard for passenger transport from the 144th legislature Council. The travel permit allows less than nine passengers to use automobiles. To protect the separation between travel services and rental vehicles, they are restricted to the use of a travel medium that can be used only for the purposes of a planned service and that it is at least a half - day trip or part of another approved tourism service, such as passenger transport or special recreation, a part of travel services. Special recreation in the sense of the law refers to recreation provided by a traveler and to speciality, such as fishing, snowing, horse riding, skirmishing, etc. Does the committee believe that by means of the arrangement, both sides are involved. Thus, tourism can provide a environmental service but its conditions are intended to prevent major intervention of tourism in the market as motor vehicles and to have the right to other laws. So I speak for myself in this matter -- I think that other members of the committee discuss this matter further -- then my opinion is that these matters must be settled only more than done here when it comes to the environment we are living with a passenger. It's kind of a jungle, so who can drive with each and every one of them? We, on the board, tried our best, and I think that we did very well with it, in order to establish clear rules regarding driving on less cars than nine people, in fact, on travel permits, but I'm directing it to the government to further investigate the procedure here. I say it again before my parts, in terms of being able to drive with passengers on cars who take fewer than nine passengers, that it's in the spirit of the one we want to work on as a environmentally friendly vehicle. So I think it's an improvement to have this law in your head, and I guarantee it in a way that it is not overstepped to form a taxi driver who has had permission to drive with so few passengers. Again, I say to my share that it would be wise for me to sit over and that I would also direct my community, perhaps especially here in the capital area, to examine these matters, how cars can drive where and how much are used to travel cars and then to where, up to a hotel or where it is. The more we look at this subject, the more we can do so. Even if it does, it does not solve all the complications in this area. So I return to the committee's opinion, here's a second issue. 18th par. In 1st. 18th par. The bill says that it is forbidden to deny the request of passengers on a moving trip or to a group vehicle, on the basis of disability. Two. can be found annulled by the directive if the security or attention of the management sector demands that it be met with practicalness. Exception 2. was severely critical, including In the reviews of the All-American Union of Iceland, the MND Company and the Autosaves, as well as the members of the Committee with the representatives of these parties. The committee points forward criticism of the legal authority to deny passengers access to groups because of disability based on opinion of economic benefits. The committee suggests that there must be a security issue behind such a rejection and that the words of the arrangement will, in turn, function effectively show the need to be taken away from the arrangement. In other words, on the committee, we feel that unless there is a safe motive, the passengers cannot be denied access to a group vehicle because of a disability. It is our opinion, and there is no economic advantage in it. Twenty-nineth. The bill contains a penalty that says that offenses against various aspects of the law can become fines or prisons up to two years. The committee does not consider the premise to require prison punishment for violating these laws and suggest a change to be solely punished by the law, with the premeditated effect of greater penalties in criminal violations according to general law. The Commission, however, gives a general view that legal laws must be effectively suppressed and that this is guaranteed by not covering fines, as in existing legislation on the subject. In other words, the committee feels that there may not be a reason to use imprisonment in violating these laws, but the lack of covering fines is more efficient in dealing with lawbreakers than is the case with existing legislation. In addition to the above changes, the Committee suggests a change in 1 5th paragraph. The bill involved in making contracts for public service on road passenger transport. It aims to convey the wording of the law closer to the expression of the EU type on which it is based. Rather than primarily in this article, the duties of the local administration or other private rights are required according to Article 7. To provide a regular transport of passengers in the affected area, this is the case at 1 mg. The valuation of the private rights holder is required to take care of the driving or to hide it from the operator owned entirely by the private rights. Two. if you have a general obligation to oer your company a warrant for 1.mg. not new. Here the committee suggests that the paragraphs are simply turned to what is in the bill code. This committee suggests the basis for the wording of the EEA model because it is 1st. It says that the private rights manager can take care of the business himself, e.g. Companys, or he's committed to a business owner who owns them, like Bus. If this source is not new, the company can be asked out. We think it's important to keep this in line with what's in the EEA. The committee received comments on the rendering of 2 mg. 1 1. The bill, of course, of which it was permitted to limit the use of buses outside a town, would be unfortunate. It would be dangerous to hand over power in this way to a government agency, especially where the term bus would not be legally defined. A similar provision can be found in the current laws on transport and freight transport in the country, No. 73/2001, but according to Commission information it has never been new. In a paper with the bill that became the law No. 73/2001 says that the principle of safety lies primarily behind it, without any details. The committee agrees with the forward view that the authority on the law moves a hall to limit the driving of buses outside a town, being too vague and suggesting that the arrangement be removed. Other changes suggested by the committee are technical or corrective and do not require any specific explanation. Finally, there are other viewpoints. The review of the case provided indications, including From the bus bus. and the Icelandic community, as well as national bodies, on the need for special laws on public transport. The Commission, in part, agrees with the viewpoint and believes that in the coming years, in connection with the development of public transport, it is desirable to develop a special law on public transport that serves an important national and environmental function. The committee has seen that the environment of public transportation, rental driving, and group transport is complicated and difficult to find its way through the market. Therefore, direct the Commission to the Ministry that, following the approval of the bill as discussed here, a complete review of the European passenger-sourpent legal environment should be made under the guidance of a simple bill. The committee received their coverage of indications, including From the National Association of Iceland, that foreign tourism was advising passengers in the country without a clear license, and without respecting Icelandic law, to make up the driver's minimum wage. This gave rise to competitiveness of market parties, and there was a sense of lack of surveillance and other resources to cope with the problem. The Commission is concerned with these matters and is directed to the Ministry to investigate in accordance with these indications and suggestions to determine how to cope with such behavior. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under these are the writings of Chairman Gunnarsdóttir, Director Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bortís Haraldsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Bragi Sveinsson, Pawel Bartoszek, and Tothol Björn Einarsson. A respectable president. I'd like to introduce myself to me as well as others on the committee for a careful consideration of what is presented in the motion of No. 6 of the Committee for Change 8. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Before the words of a student and a student driver of the 2nd issue come: Tourism of the disabled, in accordance with law on the affairs of disabled people. So we refer to the committee itself, that we need to consider whether the bills that were discussed earlier in the evening. 571 and 572 are relevant for the services of disabled persons who have a great need for support and, on the other hand, are members of the local community service. They need to be referred to, i.e. to ensure that the law is cited. Other than that, the adjustments have been made, and I've done quite a bit over them. I'd like to reiterate what is stated in the committee's opinion that I think it is necessary, and I only came in, to look into this legal environment further. In particular, I believe it is necessary to get started as soon as possible in order to distinguish between laws on public transportation and other passenger transport. Buss. has regularly, as a result of the exposure of a bill to this being called after, considered to be clear and simple the environment in which the population - torn business operates. I think, really, it's good to sit over it as soon as possible. The article refers to the dramatic changes planned in the years to come. I remind you that the local community in the capital area has a city line that has entered a government contract and is included in a financial program until the end of the five - year year period. In fact, money does not have an earmark immediately, perhaps that is normal, but at least it is mentioned. Changes are in the lake when it comes to public transportation. I think it is very important to include a thorough review of the environment, as we do on the committee. To this I said, "I'm saying, " I'm saying, " I'm going to say yes,'to the law, " I'm going to refer to the law, whether there's a law on the matter of disabled people or the law I mentioned earlier, " and it's on page 20. ' 3 In the opinion of the committee, where the same law is cited, we make sure that everything that lies ahead is just when it comes to referring to the right law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u115	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the son of Otttar, Proppér for this story, which was very thorough and very good and does not really need much to add, but he worked along with the wind. The members of the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir and Pawel Bartoszek referred to the Committee as a chronicle among members of the Committee, and they work very well. There are a few things I would like to snoop around. As noted in the case of Senator Kolbeinn Otttar's Óttarsson Proppér, we were given tremendous numbers of visitors to the committee, and many views were expressed, for the whole nation was involved. We got some good tips and took them into account, but I'd like to say that what we're driving in a committee party may be what stands up as well as the changes made in the bill as it was moved by the Supreme Court. Transport and Regional Ministers. And there is the law on the exclusive. We have received, and in recent years have also received tips from rural communities who have held public transportation. It's actually been made known that these exclusive rights and guidance systems have been run into. We feel that with these changes, we are dealing with them. We would like to have public transportation throughout the country to be known by their names and that it is respected that those who have this exclusive driving year, whether it's high - speed or fewer passengers. They endure this ministry, and they are to be respected, as well as supportive. The committee agrees that this was important. As a leading authority explained, several tourism companies were using far too large a car to transport a small number of passengers with the cost and related pollution. We want to fix it with a so - called travel permit that we recommend to be granted. To further strengthen those companies and separate from taxis, we suggest that the vehicles of this travel agency be marked by a operator. We also took the exception of those who suffer from disability. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppé traced it very well and our suggestions for changing it. It was also taken into the penalty that assumed that those who broke these laws could be imprisoned. We thought it was a big deal for them, and we suggested that prison punishment be issued rather than excrement. It also appeared, and there was concern that foreign tourism involved in the move by passenger transport in the country, are moving into the country both equipment and food, and are setting themselves up in places where they can use a service that may be meant only for the public. We suggest that there is good reason to monitor and deal with this. As I said in the beginning, this has been done well, and more members of the committee will be speaking. I would especially like to thank the Committee for a very good job, patience, and hard work so that we could make this bill, the first bill that comes from the Committee, best of the garden.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and for the leading speaker of the matter prior to the review of the committee. In other words, it is part of a good thing. The Environment and Transport Committee where this was being discussed in previous Parliaments, as agreed, i.e. the subject as part of a bigger matter, as was tore in the lead speaker of the committee's opinion. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate and chairman of the Committee on a number of factors, however, is primarily two points that are presented in the section on other viewpoints. This is because it is clear to all those who have observed the treatment of this matter and its predecessor at the time, that it has chosen a heavier route here, i.e. not to deal specifically with public transport in a way that was previously carried out. I notice that the Bus b., the European Union and the national components make comments on this. They have hopes that such activities need to be lived in a handsome and decisive way in legislation. In particular, I am glad that the committee agrees with that viewpoint and that this has to be done in an acceptable way. But I also notice that first, the committee says: "The committee partially agrees with that view. I would like to know: To what part does the committee agree? Perhaps not all the committees agree with that viewpoint, or how is that? Second, have these opinions been considered on the provisional committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for these questions. It is clear that public transportation throughout the country is extremely important to those living there. As I traced earlier, serious complaints have been made about driving into these private rights. That is what we want to prevent through the adjustments proposed by the committee. Regarding this, we have discussed that even special laws on public transportation have to be made. It is natural to realize that by observing the development of tourism on the land, both roads, seas, and air, transportation is important to them. But public transportation such as this is the most important thing for those who travel around the country and have not been and may not want to be on their own cars, including them. to prevent waste and contamination. It is only a natural part of modern society that this journey can be offered. The committee agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u118	President. I appreciate those answers. The importance of public transport in itself is completely in place. This is discussed in the transport programme at any given time, etc. It must be part of the climate goals Iceland has set out to meet the road of public transportation that most of the population of rural and urban areas. There are tremendous opportunities in that subject, especially here in the capital area, by increasing the impact of public transport on the difference. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer as far as it went. I think it might be worth considering whether this recommendation should be made to the Ministry, as stated in a committee study where the Commission directs it to the Ministry that, following this bill's approval, an overall review of the passenger transport legal environment will be followed by a simple guide. In effect, however, the committee chooses to use this form of reference to the Ministry. Because of what? In his previous answer, I would like to reiterate my question: Does the Senator consider adding preliminary regulations so that the committee should speak to the Ministry of Reconnaissance, and put some time limit in the material so that the council still talks more clearly on how we want to take the next step? I sense that the will in itself is clear, but I fear that such a project would tend to descend into the bank as part of a committee party, which would have been done if this were a clear provisional principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u119	V.E.G. President. Yeah, we've got a tough question here. Of course, there is some reason why the wording is used in this way. However, this is a very good tip. I'm not gonna answer that right now, it's something that the committee will discuss between itself whether there's any reason to make some changes there for 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u120	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on passenger transport and transport transport from transport and local government. I would like to agree with my colleagues and executives that it was most enjoyable to have the committee come together in this matter and to share a common opinion. I've had a lot of interest in getting it out of securing and trusting public transportation in the country. I like that conclusion very much. We get together, and I feel that we can be very happy with the conclusions, although, of course, something is always something that would have been different, but to get along, everyone had to give in. We all did. I think it's very important that we cooperate with the representatives of the companies that came before the committee, mostly with companies who drive in the country, were very good and positive, and they made us the game and the post-work lighter. The meetings were a good time, and we reached a common conclusion, ensuring public transportation throughout the country throughout the year. The books have been handled well here. I'm not going to repeat it, but I'd like to reiterate it as a dog. The chairman of the Committee's Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter arrived at the end of his talk, saying that the evidence from the National Social Association of Iceland was that foreign travelers served in this country without a clear license and without accepting Icelandic law to make up the minimum price of a driver. It's impossible that this could work. We learned that even police feel that they are having trouble stopping these vehicles and checking where they are on licenses and passengers. We also know that some operators have traveled through the country with so - called hotel columns, stopped at lodgings, and used a public toilet, preparing and selling food from their cars. It will not be the case in Icelandic circumstances. I think it's very important that these matters be handled severely. We should not feel that our guests and businesses are violated by the law on pay and holidays. It's also a safety device for all of us who are in traffic. I also agree with what has been said about making special laws about public transportation. It's important to set laws about this large party that we're part of here and give the public a solid and good public transportation into the future. I can't leave this chair any other way than to mention the cab drivers who walk a little off the table. They came to us, and they had a clear view of the use of smaller cars. However, it has been decided in this committee that their use of cars requires a special travel permit. There must be premeditated trips and they must take up to half a day at least That was the conclusion of the committee. It was not easy for everyone, but it was a common decision that the committee concluded to ensure the main public transport in this matter. Also, it has been observed by my members on the committee that it is important to consider the issues of cab drivers and bus companies regarding this cooperation in this field. We agree on that, and I agree with them. Again and again, I want to express my gratitude to members of the Committee for a very good and solid cooperation in this matter, very good, to all of us to imitate in new affairs and projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u121	A respectable president. I agree with those who have given thanks to the head of the Committee and the head of the Committee and the other committees who are with me on an environmental and transport committee, where we were able to attend a country of committees with a common change of mind and character. It's my place that knows there's a lot of good things to do. We're initiating a European principle that I think will be positive for this sector. Another change I think is that under certain circumstances it is permitted to transport passengers in cars that take fewer than nine passengers. While there are, of course, those who have criticized that it is creating yet another license, a travel permit, there is a distinction, of course, between the views of those who feel that there should be a measure of freedom in these and those who want to protect the interests and benefits and to ensure certain benefits and monitoring of this activity. There's a lot of good here. I'd like to do a little bit of my viewpoint on these matters, especially those of public transportation. No one needs to doubt that the one standing here is a lover of public transportation. I didn't get a car test until it was a little late, and I used public transportation, both in the country and elsewhere, as my main road leading up to my 30's, so I know I'd like to see the best way to travel. In fact, I view public transportation as not just the transportation for which the public is paying, but much more about the overall campaign, that there is some group texture of the roads where people travel together, whether on a plane, a bus, or a bus. So we're just saying it out loud, the public transport business in Iceland and, as it is, in fact, in the west of the ocean over the last few decades has not necessarily been a dance of roses. The number of passengers has been reduced. I can take the United States as an example in which the trip to Grey Hound took place from being one of the most popular travelers to the complete collapse of the application. According to some estimates, between 1960 and the beginning of this century, passengers have declined by more than 70%. In fact, it's a pleasure to tell about it, and I just want to put out the idea here, that it was successful to reverse that trend in a certain way. About ten years of growth began again in this U.S. population transport, including the U.S. In a way, new companies made their way into the market. One was a company that dragged British brand Megabus into the United States. There they changed business modeling to some extent, passenger transport, and people began offering trips that did not leave the downtown cities but from some type of perimeter to save the cost of going to the center of the city. The company offered free Internet access for all who traveled on the bus and the parts of the ticket were sold at very low prices, one dollar perhaps for the first three, four seats each trip. This business model made it a significant increase in the number of bus passengers in the United States. I have seen the increase of 35% between 2008 and 2016. Thus, this development can be reversed because even though men might have thought that the flight had come to be and would always have the upper hand, there were certain advantages in the way humans chose it so that they chose it further. One of them was priced, those tickets were very cheap. Then I think the net had its share. Although flying would often take less time, it was possible for a person to achieve a better, more successful transport experience. From the time the passenger gets on to the bus until he gets out of the bus, there is no interference, no security search, no landing where the passenger needs to turn on and shut down the computer, etc. The benefits of moving abroad by means of other public transportation can be totally useful. I only mention it here because this initiative came from private sources in some way. I'm all in my mind behind what is said here about public transportation, about their need, and the need to maintain private rights to ensure the well-being of public transport across the country, but we can't shut down the fact that we're preventing initiatives and innovations like this. As a prince, all of us must agree that what matters most is the environmental protection and the practicality that result from the killing of people and the ability to travel together if they do not want to travel in a car. I'm not gonna keep my speech longer, Mr. President. Of course, we're initiating the EEA protocol, so my heart is sliding and sliding. I hope that these laws, if they become reality, will promote passenger and cargo transport in Iceland as well as public transportation, with what's going on here or with the work we're going to do in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u122	Mr. President. Without the intention of extending this discussion, I'd still like to say goodbye to the Commission's opinion of the environment and transport committee on the bill of passenger transport and transport in the country, to celebrate a special change of plans. Environment and Transport Committee to be accessed from 2 mg onwards. 18th par. the bill on which passengers should not be denied access to a group tour because of disability based on their opinion of economic practicality. I find it extremely important that the committee suggest that the business towards economic efficiency is removed from the past and must say that it is a complete temporary error not to do so. Earlier today, the highest standard recommended. Social and equal minister for two initials, one for services to disabled people with a great need and for community service, both to alter the law here on land in agreement with that we have validated an agreement by the United Nations. Although there was some debate over these bills and viewpoints, and some of them aggressor. Senators want to go further on other matters, I think we're all heartily agree that legislation needs to be followed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People at the General Assembly at the Last Parliament. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people gives disabled people no new rights. There's nothing new in it. Only disabled persons are being held accountable for the rights of the rest of the law. In the 3rd. The agreement on general principles shows that a part of that principle is: Denial of discrimination, the fact that disabled persons can take full and active part in the community without separating, equal to opportunities and access. There is no better reason for this to come true if any economic practitioner interferes with it. This is just what we have to do with our laws to fulfill the deal. The contract is specifically about the bioavailability issues. That is relevant in the context of this case, which says in Article 9. by permission of the President: The Member States shall take appropriate measures to enable disabled people to live their own lives and to have a full share in human life in all areas, i.e. Factors aimed at ensuring disabled persons access, as well as others, to the material environment, to transport, to information and communication, including Enlightenment and communication technology... ~ That is why it is so important for all legal procedures that the contract that all disabled people hold to high hopes that they will be able to change their social status and that they will contribute to their community involvement. That is why I really hope that there will be more things at the council for the change. In fact, the environment and transport committees, allow me to be quite optimistic because the committee returned one joint committee. This is also important because the attitude toward those who are disabled is important. The attitude may be expressed in words that are even hidden in lyrics that people's rights are not right unless they are worthless. That is exactly the attitude that is demeaning and humiliating to people. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more, but I'm not going to welcome back this adjustment. I'm sure we'll have to make some changes to get even more comfortable with the bioavailability of disabled people, but I think it's a really important step. It is by such steps that we can make disabled persons valid for members of the community. One step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u123	A respectable president. We will discuss the opinions of the Environment and Transport Committee on the bill to legalize passengers and transport to the country. I'm one of the members of the committee who sign this opinion. As mentioned earlier, the committee gives a common opinion. It was a monotonous act on this change proposal and on what we put down here. I certainly hope this is the first of many committee views that I can sign, which is the common opinion of all members of the committee. As we have seen, there were a number of reports; 50 reviews were received through the bill. It's got to be said at the moment that we're in trouble. The Environment and Transport Committee passed over a period of time so that as more guests arrived, more were involved and more were involved. This is an introduction bill and it's very important that we take care of it. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, a comparable bill has been made up here at a council that could not be resolved and a comparable bill has already been published by the Ministry, even though it has not been submitted here. I think it's the third one. It's all three, and hopefully we'll be able to finish this fine thing right here. The private right was one of the most discussions we had. There was a great agreement on the importance of public transportation. Perhaps just because the above discussion came up that the need to make special laws about public transportation and about what we're writing here was necessary; I think we on the committee have agreed that it was not an option to do anything, so it would be very important to remove the bill with the changes we agreed on, even if there was a reason to do more. But rather than delay, we thought: " Let's eat the elephant in a few bites, and it's just a good start. ' I hope that with the bill and with the opinion of the committee, we will not doubt the importance of a patent in public transportation as it has been implemented. We're not talking about the patents of public parties into open markets where there's a competition, but where it's lacking and we're making sure public transportation can be going on all year. Then I'd like to make a right, as it happens here at 2 Timothy 3: 1. g., although this is not a direct duty, it is desirable and so is in the vast majority of cases. Although a community organization has a patent to organize public transportation, it is a private person who is driving. It is not as if public people are driving or operating their cars or employees. I think it's important for people to keep that in mind. This is the principal concern of the public interest involved in organizing public transport. Most of the comments we received were made in the size of the cars. It's been fine. I'm very happy with the way we're going here on the travel permit, which is a proposal that had previously been proposed by the Ministry. Because of what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who is also a senior in his opinion, talked only about the cab driver's position, and had a word about what we say in the opinion of the committee, I agree with the viewpoint he presented; I think that afterward it is necessary to examine that environment. Now I'm not going to minimize the importance of being here with taxis, but it may be that the rule of a rule over it is the time of the child and that it needs to be replaced in some way. We're not dealing with it in this bill. But we're opening up a tourist service with smaller cars, but we still believe we're securing the taxis with their private rights because of the demands on travel services. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir regarding the extraterrestrials that we agree to change and deal with disabled people and their access to passenger transport, i.e. to take out the word "probably practical'. However, it should be possible that in the types we are using, this expression is just as stated in the rules of the bill. So we are going beyond what is expected there. We wholeheartedly agree on the importance of this matter. I'd like to shame that this is one step; what. A senator made it clear that we are doing this in step. But the next step is the importance of taking into account the general practice of disabled persons. Now I may be thinking especially about the capital area and the availability of waiting places and the like. It is also a very important subject for which rural society needs special attention. I just want to come in on the penalty. We agreed to take this out with the imprisonment, but the account of the Bus shows us a request to set up regulations that would compromise specifically those who are trying to cheat in the street or the like. Such laws are widely known abroad. The committee did not agree to install such things today. We thought it was a little too complicated at this point. But I think when it comes to discussing public transportation bill, we need to consider that. I just wanted to add to the fact that what has been said is true, and we say in the opinion of the committee, with the permission of a president: In part, the Commission accepts that view and believes that in the coming years, in connection with the development of public transport, Then we're especially pointing to the city line. It may also call for changes in traffic laws and practices, but we do not know exactly how this development will be. But I think my point of view at that point may also be a reason to look at some sort of fine in the matter of cheating on public transportation. There's something else that this bill doesn't deal with, and I want to be in the public transportation discussion, and that's the legal part. The rural communities have taken this assignment in cooperation with the State with its special agreement, but that is not their legal role. Nevertheless, rural communities place considerable money on public transportation. I think there's every reason to keep this discussion going, especially in the light of the financial agenda we're discussing. These factors are addressed in particular. We have a test project on the growth of public transport. Doing so has yielded good results. The number of passengers in the bus is increasing, but it could increase faster. For that, you may need a more powerful device like the city line. I think it's important that we keep it in mind here, in all public transportation coverage, who's going to be involved in this role and who's going to cost it. In spite of a fine speech, there is no question about it. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, who mentioned examples of public transportation and development from the western sea, is now in the vast majority of places, and most of the places I know, that public transportation is subsidized by the public, paid by taxes. It is considered national and environmentally important to support such transport. It may well be possible in some cases that this can be done on a competitive basis; often when the expense has been dropped, as seen in the railway system in Europe, and at some point we may be able to look to it. I know that rural areas in the capital area are looking for the urban line to become self-sustained when the infrastructure needs to be built up. What a wish that would be! I don't think I've got it much further, but I'd like to thank the head of this committee a great deal for my good work and joy and a chairman for holding our meetings tight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u124	Mr. President. We committees who believe this come naturally in love with each other. This is only hope, for public transportation is a big deal. It is a pleasure to see that common opinion that shows what some cases really are parapolitic, not all of them, in fact. I view these public transportation primarily as a result of climate and public service. The climate should be largely mirrored by public transportation, for most of the population looked primarily at the economy, was a lot to predict about the loss of public transportation, and so on. The benefits were meant to be of great importance. That's right. That's right. That's right. The preceding senator, in very few places, can run public transportation with real profits. It may be possible in some countries, but I'm going to see it happen, maybe with the city line in Iceland, but it's only going to be the business as it turned out. Of course, we look for practical solutions, within a larger town on the southwest corner as in other parts of the country. That is why I have often watched writing or listening to discussions about trains, subways, subways, or routine trains, in Iceland, and have allowed myself to shake my head because I know the sound of trains, trains, or heavy trains, in much bigger communities than is in Iceland, and certainly not only in travel. This is something that we may see later, perhaps in the next century, when railroads or trolleys have been completed, or what we want to call it, Iceland in large ways. It's a future song. When I was thinking about these matters, I thought of a story about a fine man, a cigar smoke like he was called, Bjarni frá Vogur, who was up here in politics. In the 1920's, he went to Krisjania, or Oslo, to learn about trams and trains. It was 1926 or 1927. You'll see how long the Icelanders were looking to the future, 150,000 or below, so it's a long story. It comes to a big deal that doesn't really matter much in all public transport discussions, road reforms. I understand it takes 1,400 billion bucks. to make every headway in Iceland some kind of European road, to meet the minimum requirements set out on the mainland. There's no smartass. It's about twice the income side of the state fund. I'm not asking for it, but it's clear that public transportation requires good soil as well as more soil. Let us look at the national budget as it now looks, and we will not see much space for the next five years to a large portion of this material. Enough about that. The key elements are evident in this introduction and supplementation; the patents should be ensured in public business throughout the year and in what has been reminded by less than nine people to travel the Marketing Authorisation Holder when discussing a specific service. Most important, it is a natural disorder. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra's Árnadóttir came on, we managed to cut out the wrong words from this bill. There is a great need to plan on new laws on public transportation and passenger transport. You may be able to combine this in a single law code. There are a lot of things to think about in terms of special passenger transport because it is all starting to bump into one another's corner, simply because it's because it's the best interests of group traffic companies, cabs, and tourist parkers, are in a variety of ways mixed up, and people aren't in any agreement about how to manage it all. This may need to be discussed further in the bill, provisional regulations, or committees to press quick payment on such matters. I'm going to like others to thank the cooperation of the Committee, the Chairman as well as the members of the Parliament. It was a very interesting work, and it was also when some of the guests insisted. These were nearly 50 guests, and I am sure that as many visitors come to the committee in many cases. There are very different views on making money with people, which is a very important matter. Mr. President. In the end, I think it was an acceptable landing and a public service. It's important. We who belong to the left green are deeply involved in social solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u125	A respectable president. I want to come up because both in the debate and in the preceding talk there have been an opinion that could be understood in such a way that I had a dream that public transportation would one day be a little nervous. I don't have that understanding at all. I'm realistic enough to know. I also know that if we ever build a city line, which I really hope will be, it will not be an investment at all that will be able to carry itself fully on private presidents. I have examined such investments well enough to know. Nevertheless, for the sake of my support of public transportation, I am very opposed to such investment, and they need to be supportive. However, there are certainly public transports that have not had to be strengthened, e.g. long travel in parts of Europe and long travel in the United States, which I consider as public transportation. But I'd like to curious a little bit about why. A senator for what he said about a train ride in Iceland as some kind of future mouse. If we read a list of countries that have adopted easy - to - read systems in the past five years, we find such cities as Bergen, Angers, Reims, Murcia, Brest, Dijon, Le Havre, Tours, Besançon, Edinburgh, Palermo, and Olsztyn, Poland. There is a trend this way in Europe, and smaller areas are taping up easily. If we take, for example. Dijon, known for its excellent animal, lives in that region of 150 fars. Thus, it is not too far off to compare that city with the capital area. I'd like to curious about pessimism. A senator regarding a train transport in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u126	Madam President. I don't want to call it pessimism. I want to be realistic. When we look at cities on the mainland, that's 150 farts. ... manor 300yous. 400 of you. it's part of a much bigger community. There is a wide variety of transport that connects even these cities. These may be train transports into cities, these may be some system that connects two cities together, etc. Then let's watch Iceland where there's 200 of you. a man in the Great Rygavit, he lives in less than 20 of you. e.g. in or around Smokejanestown. You start thinking about weather in Iceland, a tunnel that needs to be done through three blocks, if we're thinking of anything other than all the simplest trains, now I'm talking between Reykjavík and Cheflavour. I think it's a future mouse. I'm not saying it won't be. I'm just saying that it may be in the next century or something, as I said in my speech. Within Reykjavík myself, I think the city line will be electric, not light. I also think that for the first time we receive easy transportation to Keflavík, i.e. Public transportation of some kind, if it's electric, not light or heavy, or what we call it. I think this is just a question of investments, this is a question about the ability of Icelandic society beyond some kind of profit-seat in order to keep it out in the long term, because you don't build a big public transport system on the basis of the touristism that you have no idea how to rely on. So I want to call it realistic, not pessimism. I guess we're the reason. A senator agrees more than he thinks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. That's a big answer for a senator. In fact, I have to distinguish between a twofold, a long - range train, or a speed train to Cheflavík on the other side of the capital area. It is true that there are two types of exports that people have been talking about when it comes to that line, on the one hand, ◯bus raspid transits, or fast cars, and on the other hand, light trains. What I've been most skeptical about, so I'll tell you why. The more romantic and beautiful concept of this, the greater costs and the lack of the knowledge of infidelism that is already present in many countries where a structured system has been built, the more important one to do so. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. A member of the council that it is this way in many countries where it is a easy - to - read system, e.g. In France, there is a trolley system next to the cities that need to be built up, so it's just different. In view of how many European countries have chosen to build a light train rather than a fast - moving system, I would at least want to leave it as a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u128	Madam President. Electricity, at least. Whether it is selected for practical reasons to begin with, wagons instead of something that goes on the tea, or whatever, it simply reveals. I'm not so prophetlike that I trusted in myself to settle this situation right now. There's a big difference, though, because Reykjavík is a little bumpy and tall, I don't talk about the way out of town. It is far less expensive to rely on bicycles, ordinary tirebarrows, than on drawings. It's different. As soon as we're inside some kind of tunnel in these towns, we're in a lot of other hymns. Today, the streets of Reykjavík are built up without anyone ever thinking about real civilization, perhaps unlike many other cities that are broad streets. There's very little about them here. True, there are quite a few green areas that can somehow be expanded, but there will be no easy task, either to build a city line and to place it in such a good way, or links to other communities in the same way as the city line, if you go so far. I think we agree more, then. A senator and me, but he thinks and will both get into either a light train or a electric carriage and make it through the city. At least I predict it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u129	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to celebrate a case so far and so close as it turns out and that there's a concordance in that case. For the Generals, it is important that we get together on a large scale. We forget, too, when talking about what the World Council is like, how to uphold the fact that, fortunately, such reasons also lend us a blessing to bring up the viewpoint and to reach a joint decision for the whole matter, for the General Assembly, and for the community as a whole. It's working here. I want to be congratulated by the former Commission on the Environment and Transport Committee, it is of utmost importance and have previously managed to do so on large and heavy issues, to form natural protection laws that were highly officiating and scraping around, but it was so successful to achieve a joint decision. This is very important when it comes to big things, especially those that involve the basic systems of society. I think it's a good way to get an environment and transport committee into a big business ahead of us at this council and the next thing you've been able to accomplish this. Without being a member of the committee myself, I know that in order to reach my destination in this way, many conversations need to be made and many guests have been listened to and read many comments, so I especially welcome the payment. I particularly thank you for being very well prepared for my suggestion that it might be appropriate to consider it between the 2nd and 3rd. to add a provisional principle to the ultimate payment. At the same time, I thank you that the chairman of the Committee has taken good care of the reinstatement of a committee between 2 and 3. to at least they'll be tore up. I personally have no final conviction that it is right to go that way, and I have full faith that the committee will come to the best conclusion on the subject. I don't hear any other perspectives on the members of the committee, but the success of this bill being followed by the approval of a complete review of the European passenger's legal environment, which is guided by simple guidance, as stated in a committee list. I think it is worth just one Mass to see if such a provision can be made in temporary terms and perhaps primarily because the one here has experience as a minister who accepts such guidance from the Council. There is a difference between whether this guidance is given in a committee article, as presented at 2 Corinthians. The matter, or we meet with a provisional principle, which is a much clearer guide to ministers on what to do. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir A single piece of a large elephant is being taken by Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, that is a decision made by the committee and, indeed, a minister by making the case so. But as soon as people agree that the elephant continues to stay for food, I think it's fine in the light of this broad political solidarity that the council also says B, i.e. what we all want to see is that it's next, because I can't hear better than that it's clear. It is always interesting, in itself, what causes it to form a parapolitic controversies on a subject. Often, there are other complements, so to speak, but the standard class of predominantity that leads people together around such matters. For one thing, people may even have av. approach to local government. It has a similar view of specific factors because of its home or because of its origin. These views sometimes find more space in the Committee office than they get here in the Senate Hall, where we are more occupied with who is a member of the House. It is often good for the general body of Congress to get such dimensions into a political debate in the chamber. Thanks to that fact, special celebration is to be done. As I said before, there are times when we need to be more sensitive to ourselves when we think all politics are going on and everything here is going down to hell on average. And we are, in effect, to be ashamed of the day that we are married to a council rather than face the fact that, at times, we are doing some really good things, even though this does not mean that we are forgetting that we are here because we are in different categories and we have different priorities and are to keep them in line and to discuss them in the flesh. That's why we're here, too. Because here, only the viewpoints related to the importance of public transport in general would I like to mention the factors mentioned repeatedly related to the big issue ahead that is reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It's a big concern if we don't succeed in putting our hands on all of the community's projections for reduction emissions, including Of course, transport planning and especially, since the companies who have made an assessment of our status in climate change have repeatedly observed that our greatest opportunities are likely to be being reduced by transport emissions. It will not be overlooked that these opportunities are the nature of the case primarily here at the southwest corner, simply because of the large percentage of the people living in the capital area. Then I'm certainly not talking about the importance of transportation in any way, because I am quite aware that the important thing is not late, where the road is longer to go to my daily routine. In terms of the importance of significantly reducing emissions, reducing the extent of the private car traffic in the capital area, we are talking about measures in the interests of international goals, equaling the possibility of transportation, i.e. making such choices as whether we choose to use a private car, public transportation, walk, or cycle, or whatever we want to do here from day to day. In order to do this, we need to take steps that are in the interest of alternatives to the only car, not by pressing it, but by the steps we are taking, whether it is in the traffic sector or in other means, to make it easier to cycle, to take the bus, and to develop the transport of rural areas to the capital area, which has better agreed to be the next step, which is a city line. In fact, it is much more important than it seems at first glance that the communities led by a wide variety of groups, from right to left, agree that this is to be done. It is of infinite importance that we do not have to take some sort of conflict talk about it. Rather, we should look to what the capital area has already found out about the city line. Here were discussions about alternatives to the bus of public transportation, whether in the city line, by train, by carriage, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train between capital area, and from Cheflavík, as was actually a church resolution from us in the left green, approved to make a special examination of the benefits of train transport between the capital area and the Chefavik. It is all the advantages we must have on the table at any given time to compare with the rest of our hands because of the environmental costs we have at any given time, and, in the end of all things, mainly because of our targets of emissions. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this speech. I feel like I'm at a family party at another familia when I'm speaking here at the rosary of the Environment and Transport Committee, where each member of the Committee after the rest of the committee has been talking about how much it's fun, which is always fun. It's a pleasure, of course, I'm glad. I can even remember that once it went so far with us on the Environment and Transport Committee, when we were completing a discussion about nature protection that we were courting so much of the committee's chairman that Steingrímur Sigfússon, why. A senator of past and present saw reasons to request that we slow down in this account only to the head of the committee. But it's very important to keep it at good times. I reiterate my congratulations to the Committee at this point, of course not yet finished, and I sharpen the committees to examine closely with their committees the benefits of taking up this preliminary course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u130	A respectable president. I was just going to come up and close up this discussion as the spokesman for the case, but since we started talking about city lines and trains, I'm gonna stay here a little longer. For the sake of fun, maybe I'll just come into the discussion before taking up what I've taken out of the discussion, which has not all come as a surprise, since many people have had sex. Senators who have mentioned this evening sign the committee's opinion and sit with me for a moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. You see, I think this is a very important discussion, i.e. for public transport in general and the next steps in this environment. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who hit his head, predicted that they would jump off an environmental and transport committee, he and whisk. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, would together ever get into a wagon of some kind or what would it be now that belonged to such a city line, or what? Yes, it is. It's the name that has already been given. I think we need to figure out how fast we're talking. This is on the regional structure of the capital to 2040. A conversation with the government is about to start just now. V.E.G. The secretary of transportation has given green light during such discussions, such as the highest level of conversation. A minister has established a petition in this room. I just established the financial program. In some respects, it may not be possible to find any money on the budget for the next five years, but it is all likely that in an updated schedule next year or the next one will have to find it. No space, no hills, no hills, no what, this has been drawn onto an organization. It's just about to start. Whether this will be on the tea as a light train or a bus called in English, by the permission of a president, ◯bus frpid Transit, is just a decision to be made. There's evidence for and against it. Amateurs are less expensive, even thinking as a first step to permanent tracks. As the process has gone, it has been found that sometimes steps two are not taken and people are trapped in speed chariots. In some places it has been found that it is worth simply taking a larger step and going straight to a light train. Either way, we're talking about specialists that no one else uses. We're talking about a gang that's been paid for before you come on, like a dog. Senators are aware of their travels abroad. We're talking about, so I'm going to allow myself to use it inexorably, a mass transfer device, whether it runs on rubber beds by malbiki, or some sort of tyre I don't have the engineering knowledge to tell what is, after the tea, probably some metal. It is only a decision that we will face in the near future. I agree with what. paritaprevir Savvardóttir Svavarsdóttir, any name known as public transportation, needs to be viewed either by some kind of speed train between Cheflavík and Reykjavík or by any name. The city line system assumes two axes drawn on it. All of this can be considered on the website of the Continental Society in the capital area. It is the project of the capital area, so there is no further connection to the capital area. That would be the third or fourth step. We're a little far into the alphabet if we're to count each step into the letter. But this is what we have to start to face as we go about it. We're going to be in charge of the Parliament's odorary proposal for transport energy exchange where public transportation is special. We have prepared for the Paris meeting objective. We've taken up all kinds of commitments, and then it's also true, no matter what we've signed. We have an obligation to do this under the rule of the law, which I am now not beinglittle, but also toward the earth and the environment. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place. She's been very good. I was so anxious to read and explain the commission, I had not realized how long this device was, that I think I was eager to commend the leadership of the committee, so I take a good report to the head of the Writing Committee, anyway. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, and the chairman of the committee, why. paritaprevir Gunnar's Gunnarsdóttir's selection. I'll thank you here now for eight minutes and 40 seconds, hoping that it would be. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon will be here and will only respond to his joy. I agree with what has been presented here, and I thank the members of the committee for their work. There are some things that some people would have liked to see differently here and many things that we are all happy about. Some phrases would have liked words differently, have some rules just different, but the objectives of this committee opinion and the changes we make here are clear and have been clearly reflected in the matter. Other members of the committee here tonight. We agree very well on this. That's why I'd like to agree with what's happened. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir About the possibility that perhaps we might consider whether it can be further sharpened in some way to direct it to the minister that it will be revised in the subsequent reviews that we have agreed on in this series that it is necessary to take place at this level of debate. I especially look at public transportation, as we have discussed. I quote the committee's opinion, by permission of the President: A tip was provided by the Committee's discussion, including a report on the topic. From the bus bus. and the Icelandic community, as well as national bodies, on the need for special laws on public transport. Who are these people? These are all the members who come to the business of public transport, perhaps outside the Akureyri town and in the east where they are specifically driven, which is then within the national community. It's all the members that come to this. This is not the first time these parties suggest that such laws be passed. Although I soon proclaimed changes in public transportation when it came to the city line, I don't think there's any reason to wait for them, I think there's a rather reason to get started at this job immediately. So I refer to the President, both because of what I mention here but also because of what I came into my history, that here we need to see if there is a law to guide the law when it comes to the law of disabled people in the light of the two primes that were discussed earlier this evening, on panels. 571 and 572. In view of the discussion that has been conducted tonight, I suggest that the matter be conducted by the committee following this discussion that considered them to be in the right law and whether there is any reason to establish a preliminary law or to sharpen in some additional way the need to consider further review of this series, regardless of this law that I hope will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u131	Madam President. I recommend here for the Committee of Economic and Business Committees on bill-to-probably changing the social law and the law on private partnerships, an electronic company file. The committee has discussed the matter. News came from the company of professionals, tax managers, and business agencies. The bill suggests that there are adjustments in the rules for reporting to enterprises as a result of preparing electronic business files and regulations for a report of accountants or viewers in microglomerates. The reviews of the bill were all positive. The committee proposes that the bill be approved. Brumes Níelsson and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason were absent from the hearing. Under the committee, the writer stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, Orri Jóhannsson, Óskarsson Ásbjörnánsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjoffóttir and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u132	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the U.S. 5/1998. Does this bill refer to the only law in terms of election age? It is suggested that the election's right to an election in the countryside should be made to every Icelandic citizen who has reached 16 years of age at the time of the vote and at a local legal home. In short, this time for 16 years, it is suggested that an election age be lowered in the county election. Transporters to this matter, as well as to what it says here, are why. Councilmen Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Logi Einarsson, Álagg Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigjörn Bearsdótk, Pawel Bartoszek, Sólveig Elínardóttir Mosty, Smári Mccarthy, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardótsdótna Bjöbjörn, Jónólólól Sólólól Ejörnnar, Björnóljörnólólólólólólólólólólólólólólnar, Björnóljörnóljörnólólólólólólólólólólólólólólólna, Bjöl Björn Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn, Kolnarsson Óttarsson Orri Proppé and Valgarðsson. The bill is based on the initials previously submitted, which went further. Previously, Congress has been proposed to reduce the general election age to 16 years. It includes two cases of the left movement of the motion ◯ Green offering, which were the concierge of Hlyn's son and Kolbrún Hallsson Halldórsdóttir's daughter at 133th Cennial and then the prime of the Árni Þór Sigurðsson in 141 C.E. Then the senators submitted Páll Árnason, Kristján L. Möller, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, along with me, the bill of this subject for the 144th legislation. It was not completed, so it was reassigned. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, i.e. And to me, and to me, the Árni of Páll the Árnason of Avengers, which were at the Council of 145th, but could not be fulfilled. All of this has been designed to reduce election age in general from 18 years to 16 years. Such a change requires changes in Iceland's constitution. In fact, this is a much smaller step by changing the election age to the countryside. It only requires a simple adjustment of the law. If the bill is approved, transporters will still stress the aim of taking further steps in the same direction in the next year, whether it will be a part of work in reviewing the Constitutions and elections that have been announced during the current election period or by an independent Senate case, but it is important to achieve a solidarity of these changes, preferably for the next election. Why is this matter presented? I do not deny that whenever these issues arise, i.e. the fall of election age, I'm experiencing quite a reaction, both positive and negative. Many do not see the need to expand their campaign age in this way. Also, there is a frequent reaction or comment that it is very unfortunate not to have this in full harmony, i.e. That there's one thing that happens at 16 years of age and another at 18 and the third at 20 and it's all very complicated, which I really don't think it is. I think the human mind is so amazing that it's not particularly complicated at first. Second, I'd like to say that losing an election age from 18 to 16 is not about turning 16-year-old children into adults. It is about this group of children or young people getting voices to influence what happens in their own community, which is, of course, the local government. I would say that very few people know that language more in themselves than just the age group that just finished school in preschool and elementary school and who are well aware of the community's leisure activities. These classes are actually a major part of rural work when we consider the accounts and the financial figures. Why not let that group get a voice? We are not telling this group to grow up. We are simply saying that we will listen to him and give him a chance to influence him. This is important to me in the beginning because I sometimes feel that people are confused because they need to be considered an adult in order to be involved in politics. The main evidence for this issue is that it is intended to support the democratic activities of young people, to increase their opportunities to influence society as active and responsible participants. If the bill becomes legal, the age of elections in 2018 will be 16 instead of 18 that means you are 9. an additional person is given the opportunity to influence important decisions that affect their lives and environment, which do not enjoy the fundamental rights of the same law. This is thought - provoking in view of the diminishing participation of young people in elections to legislators and rural governments, which are widely concerned about the future of democracy. There's something I think everyone in this room cares about, i.e. how we can help young people get involved in politics, for politics is the foundation for democratic society in which we make decisions, set up social rules, monitor power rulers. It is important that as many people share in the molding of that field. Let's check it out in Iceland. An election age was last changed here, 1984, when it was reduced from 20 years to 18 years, a remarkable how long ago it is. This happened in cooperation with all groups at the General Assembly. I'd like to use this opportunity, and I'd be especially glad to hear that in this case, there are six members of a six-group party at the General Assembly. I hope that such a reduction can become an impression. By that time, the first state had to adopt an 18 - year election age of Czechoslovakia in 1946, but Britain and Germany became the first countries in Western Europe to reduce their election age for 18 years. I mentioned the waning of participation. Data suggest that the campaign program of young people has declined since the start of the Icelandic election research in 1983. The results of Iceland's Habitat after three previous elections, i.e. County elections 2014, the 2016 Presidency and the 2016 General elections confirm what the campaign study had provided, i.e. That young people's election party is less than older voters. This was particularly clear in the 2014 rural election, where the campaign program was 47.5% but the average attendance was 66.5%. This is a huge difference in participation when it comes to this election. For one thing, it was a very important wake-up for the last General election that was attacked by Obscurial elections in various high schools, which was a very interesting project and enjoyed examining the differences and odds between the results of the Obscurial elections and the actual elections. During this campaign, there were meetings in high school, many of which were among the most enjoyable meetings held in that campaign. I hope this is one of the reasons why the campaign party of young people went up from the 2014 county election at the 2016 election. However, it is all very clear here on page 19. 4. Of course, this is important and is one of the many things we have discussed. To prepare this case, I joined two other members of the local council of the left green, the bad. The members of Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and we met several juvenile representatives to hear their vision, from different youth councils, the Union of Icelandic high school students, etc., on these matters. Their view was that it certainly was important that young people get influence but also that higher emphasis was placed on democracies in schools. This has been done to a large extent since a new textbook was published in 2011, with democracy and human rights being one of six basics. The schools have been providing such support in various ways. There are very interesting projects in most of the world in both film schools, elementary schools, and high schools, where schools vary greatly in their ability to promote awareness of democracy and do so not necessarily by having textbooks on such subjects as democracy but by promoting democracies. There are, for example. What an interesting class assignment it is to raise your children in democratic ways to participate in discussions! While the subjects are not necessarily Catholic at any given time, it is important to get into the habit of democracies. That's probably why my youngest son keeps asking for family meetings to discuss matters and wants to make democratic decisions there, since children often take a very firm stand against their parents. But all of this begins with reasoning. We may not know where it ends. But democratic education is important. I'd like to mention the elementary school of Isafjordur, who's been awarded the award for a project in that area. We've seen high school take this, for example. through students. As an example, I mention Hornafjörður, who is being involved in the furthering of democratic work as well as in the building of social services. We can also ask ourselves, " Do I not agree as soon as I contribute to the growth of democracy's education to give them a group of tools to use that education, their development, to influence it? ' I'd like to mention that this trend, if we took this step, would not be a specialist. Austria was the first country to take the step to reduce election age to 16 years in all elections in 2007 and the age for 18 years, except in elections of 35 years. Scotland took this step in the national law on Scotland's independence, which was an enormous part, not just because of a fall in election age. It was very successful in dealing with democratic views. Then, in 2015, the Icelandic Parliament agreed on a large part to take the step to the full and lower the election age for Congress and rural elections from the age of 18 to 16. The report lists other countries that have been taking some steps, and very many countries have taken the step of starting with the level of government. I mention Norway, where this age limit was established in an experimental fashion at the time. Estonia and Malta have taken the step of lowering their election age and at least In Malta it is a big debate as to whether it is not right to lower it in the election too. An election age is 16 years in rural elections in ten of the German states. In 1996, Niedersachsen rode on the field. Then, in 2011, I want to mention that the Council of Europe has agreed to conclude this matter, where the Council aims it to review all its member countries and to review it. I'd like to mention that these voices are also heard from young people themselves. I named the Youth Council earlier, the National Association of Youth, and other viewpoints. In this way, the U.S. Youth Council of the United States has concluded that it would be appropriate to reduce the rate of election in rural elections to 16 years. THE same conclusion has been given by young people in the same way. As I mentioned earlier, we had a meeting with the management of childhood society, the youth - oriented body of UNICEF, and the counseling team of children's emissaries. What I thought was just the right step was the responsible debate they had with us senators, who said: " It's a good and blessed thing, but it's also a general debate about democracy in school. Such activities need to be strengthened in the field ministry. They actually arranged for this to be a positive step, but there are other factors to follow. I'm not going to give a much longer talk about these matters, but I'm very happy to have the opportunity to speak for the case, so wide of solidarity on this matter, and I'm very excited to see when the matter is going to that point. General and Education Committee what they're gonna do. One of the same agents I mentioned during our discussions with us is that young people also are eager to be more involved in giving reviews to form up the matter presented at the council. That is one of the questions that the members of the Parliament should consider. Often the same members are called in for reviews of a matter, perhaps because we are in some particular group of people, and there is obviously no need for anyone to be called. But young people also have opinions about matters that are not especially relevant to young people. It is very often the best experience for members of the Parliament who are at the prerogative of campaigning to attend meetings with young people and to discuss the matters they believe young people want to discuss but usually find that these are all other subjects's issues. It's probably my experience to come to a meeting with young people that they're interested in something very different from what I think they're interested in. That might say something about me, but maybe it says something about other snorkels. Congressmen here are smiling so hard at this. Of course, some of us are in a better relationship with our inner child. I'll figure it out. But what really matters is that we wonder what these young people have. I can take as an example the environment, the climate, that may involve these young people far more than we are older and how we deal with them. These young people and their future, and what future do these young people want to see in transportation? Is that just another future? Young people who have been involved in policy development, e.g. The national participation of rural society points to a far different factor than older ones. It highlights factors that therefore are important to the future. I remember seeing such findings from a seminar held by the Eastern Community, where the young people were particularly involved and had a different view of how they wanted to see the part of the land developed and what their relevance to the development of these areas remained. It is important that we discuss not only the election age but also how we can consult younger groups of policy-makers, political policies, and, more importantly, the role we should play under the laws and regulations of well-being democratic education in society, not only by teaching people about the democratic community, which, of course, is not out of need, but also about how to work and operate in a democratic way. I believe this can be a very good thing to promote the interest of young people in elections and politics. I think it has a special opportunity. I think the step is really dangerous, considering local elections. We would not be riding on the ground, we would be following in the footsteps of various other European countries, but at the same time, we would be on the verge of taking a very significant, firm step to further the involvement of young people in social affairs. It is similar with this group and others that there are various groups that are forgotten. I remember my grandfather's disagreement that polls with those under 75 years of age were always very different. He said: "These people do not know how we feel as older ones. But this is what we must always be thinking about, how we can make this community, so that it embraces as many groups as possible, making sure that most voices are heard. This could be a very good step in that direction. Madam President. I suggest after 1st. if the case is referred to. General and Education Committee. Of course, it is my hope that this matter will succeed, if not at this assembly early in the next. This could be a great opportunity for the 2018 local election.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u133	Madam President. Thank you very much for your advance. I can mostly agree with the main points of this bill, or rather say: I sign the goals that men are trying to achieve with this bill, to activate young people, to arouse their interest in politics, nationalities, their environment, etc. But for fun: Sixteen years old, you've got your vote to the county government, 17 you get a car test, 18 you get a vote and then you get a vote for the Generals. Then you get nothing when you're 19, and then you get to buy alcohol when you're 20. It's a question of what we can do there in the nineteenth year. But I hear what. Rather careful, an authority believes that this step is to be taken first by local governments and see how it works, and then reflect on the general elections. But I'm not sure that's right. Let it be between parts. But I think it would break my finger that the person who has the right to a country government isn't self-control. I think it's worth at least the thought of changing your own age. I also wondered, " Have what? ' You don't think of any other votes, do you? Municipals are the citizens' votes. According to this bill, I get it right, I get it 16 years old, or the under 18, do not vote in the bloc or in the national votes over the heads. [[The president calls.]] It's really a question of whether this bill is going far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u134	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He's well prepared for his nickname as a radical local senator, and he wants to go further. As I traced at the beginning of my case, a prime report has been submitted to the reduction of this age in general, which requires a change in constitution. And it has been difficult for us to achieve a change in constitution, even in other matters that we discussed earlier tonight. Therefore, it is the step taken. On the other hand, I find a very good tip from a dog. A senator with regard to local elections that are expected in rural elections. The Parliamentary Committee may accept this. Then it would be only natural that the right to vote in the county election would be to participate in local elections. However, I imagine that the right to participate in a national bill should be accompanied by a Senate age. But it is still an independent decision, as is the Scottish example I mentioned earlier, where it was decided to reduce the election age in the national terms of Scotland's independence and then decide to reduce the rate of elections in general to Congress and rural governments. Hv. A senator mentioned the inconsistencies here, which I also entered. Actually, it's a little boring that nothing happens when you're 19 years old, I totally agree with that. There is now something about it. But autonomy or not: The General made the decision to coordinate legal and penalties at the time so that children would remain children until the age of 18. A lot of good things have come with that decision, but I would like to say, even though I personally had very little doubt about it at the time when I was younger at the time. But I've seen it in school in the country that this has been important. There are a lot of good things that have come out of prevention and other factors. That's why I'm asking, "Do you have to watch this? Do you really need to be an adult to be a part of the election? [[The president calls.]] Don't you have such an important voice to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u135	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's excellent and clear answers. I'm not entirely convinced. It bothers me that there is a breach between autonomy and the right to vote. At least I think it's material that a board of education can consider. I also hear what you're saying. A manager agrees that other regulations need to be considered when it comes to the election. I'm glad you're here. Then we can find something common before the 19th anniversary so that birthday will not pass without some rights being won. It's just for having it nice and consistent in this, that there's always some trouble until you're 20 years old. But for all the fun to go away, I'll agree with the main objective of this bill. I think it's really important, like for an elected agent, to be able to have a conversation with younger people. I agree with what. A prominent speaker who in his speech earlier said that young people are often better off than yourself in various matters and may be interested in things that surprise you, not in those you thought you might be able to skate around lightly and be rather insignificant. It's not like that. These young people are so young, I think we can say that Iceland and I have probably never had people as impressive as we do today in schools of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u136	Madam President. It's supposed to be nine years' walk in the Agency's administration, so you don't have to be on it by yourself. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] For example, just so joking, 16 children can go to a doctor without asking their parents. Then they have become independent of those serving, not having to ask Mom and Dad for medicine. So it's not all going to happen. But this is an interesting question, and I understand why. A senator is going with this, that he thinks it needs to go together, self-sustaining and taking part in elections. I don't agree with that. I believe it may be normal for a democracies to seek the opinions of those who are not yet in their own age because we think it is important that their voice is also heard when we make important decisions. I think it might be a good idea if I had a good reason for the other. And as I said in the past too long, there are so many positive things that have been meant to bring the age of suicide up to 18 years that I'm not sure that we would want to sacrifice it. I think we can achieve the goal of increasing these democracies without changing it, but it's only normal. A top-of-the-art Board of Education reviews it. Then I just want to say the word. A senator; if the attempt to make this change, it will lead to trust in this group and the group will live up to that confidence, I am absolutely sure of it. I think the main thing to get young people interested in politics is that they, in effect, experience that it has something to say. That's what's going to happen in school and in many places, but it's also important that people come to real politics. [[The president calls.]] I still remember my choice for the first time when I thought it was a big day in my life and how long I had been waiting for that day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u137	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Katrín's daughter of Jakobsdóttir for good advance and, in fact, for the very good report, for the bill. I give special consideration to what was presented in a case. The senator's review of the matter, when we're here at the council, points to the matter. I'm one of those who speak to children at council. We've been through this a little bit in our own time. It has just given us indications from the juvenile councils we've been working with that are very powerful - very cool and decent - that they would like to be more active in our work. There was a lot in the speech of the speaker that sounded like a chocolate in my ears. A Christian who served in the countryside for a long time, I agree that it is in the exact category that young people should have a very effective voice. They know the services factor very well being provided by their communities. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whose bill has appeared before: Has it been sent out for review? What, then, has prevented them from getting continued payment? Is it primarily a matter of how the Constitution changes? Has any of the reviews leaned towards this question here, moving down the election age?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u138	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. It's a pleasure to hear her vision as a woman experienced in rural politics. Many of the rural communities have been standing ahead looking for the views of young people. For example, we know a meeting here in Reykjavík, where the mayor meets with a youth council. No doubt this is true in many other rural areas. From there we often hear voices from young people, through the countryside. So I think this may be a good step. But, hey. A senator asks what took hold of the matter. This is the first time the case is recommended. This is done in a more cautious way because it is more than merely counter-reporting unless it has been prepared. That was why, in the discussion between men, it was decided that this would be the case. Also to learn from the experiences of other nations that have taken these steps, not taking steps in one piece, but first testing this and seeing what experience that would provide. That's why I stressed it here in my language so much that I'm very interested in seeing what reports are coming and what they'll be like because it's not. As a result, that discussion may not have taken place. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason testified to the agreement between the age of self-election and the age of election. I think we have a unique opportunity to do this, I don't talk about if even a solid solidarity for 2018 elections, then, of course, it would be very enjoyable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u139	A respectable president. Yes, thank you for these answers. I kind of have to agree, I think it would be very interesting to get reviews about this great bill. In view of the slowness of rural elections, it would be better to get such reports and to put an end to the situation sooner than later. I think that perhaps some preparation is needed, and while schools are doing a very good job in democracies, I think they would take it particularly on their arms and discuss it specifically if the election age was to be extended to local government. I'm glad we're here measuring for this bill and looking forward to seeing how the General and Education Committee will handle this project and what the rest of the reports will be received. I trust that they will be referred, among other things, to information from youth councils, for they truly have a good voice and are active in most parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u140	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for that. We have fine time now, if we don't. The Board of Education and the Board of Education decides to issue this matter immediately. It will be received at least two weeks from now or within. We'll have an excellent time to review them. In these matters, as I learned earlier, it is very important that we create as the most broadest solidarity in the Council so that changes of this kind can occur as should and answer questions that arise at the end of time. Councilmen around this kind of change. Of course, it's a big one. Though careful, it's big, it's big. I hope that at least we can get a good discussion during the present assembly. If this persists, we may even be able to resolve the matter if it is willing to be taken care of. I'm just seeing this opportunity to promote participation. That's how I see it. When you go to high school to make your last election, but at any given time, you feel that much political interest. What a disappointment it was to see the participation in the last district election by young people! Then you wonder: " How can you compare the great political interest you feel when you visit school with such a high level of involvement? I think things go together. That's where the schools are important. A senator mentioned. The political groups also matter, how they approach young people, and how they use them to activate young people and to influence them. Most important, I think it's important for young people to experience trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u141	A respectable president. As one of the couriers of this case, I'm very pleased to see it happen before a council where it is recommended. But I'd like to propose a slight change proposal to go further, like a cool. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in. I would like to see that those who would be 16 this year so that the entire course of the year would be a body of voters. Now I am a great advocate of trying to explain things in a simple way. I used to be an employee in high school. Sometimes I've got the feeling that I'd rather see a five-year-old in here than us. After that, I've read a lot of what's called on the Internet Expandin it like I'm five--explained like I'm five years old. It is a methodology that we could learn better. The main criticism we have received, both in the International Assembly and throughout the environment, is that we are simply not understandable. For a five - year - old, there is nothing easy to understand, but when you do, you get an excellent insight into what is right. That's what I seek most of all, to certain moral reasons, to my own convictions. I really appreciate it because I learned it again after I was in high school. There I learned again what being a person is like, and that was a very interesting experience. But back to the bill. Unlike the age of 16, this is the reason for considering 16 years. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said that the vocrament and the vote should go together, to ask if the tax and the vote should not go together. However, I do not take the Polish one to the hill. Rather, I simply quote the work we have contributed to our education system. Like what? One basic aspect of education is said to be democracy and human right. The other factors are lock, sustainable, healthy, and well - being, equality and creation, and, above all, democracy and human rights, and how these factors play together is very interesting. We set out to train ourselves to become participants in a democracies community. So we put it in the principal school course, with the permission of a president: ▪ Children and young people are expected to learn democracy by learning about democracy. This is an enormously important point in which the current election age, 18 years - a certain hole is between what people complete basic education until they have the right to vote. On average, 20 - year - olds begin to vote because they are not yet 18 years old, and they do not choose until they are 22 years old. On average, then, we are 20 years old. This change would mean the average age of the new voters 18 years. Furthermore, 2 gr. code of elementary school, by permission of presidents: To promote the general development of all students and their participation in a democratic society that is constantly developing, the work of basic schools, in cooperation with their homes, is to promote the general development of all students. It is very clear that the Lawgiver's will is to promote democratic society. We do this by allowing people to share in the community. It is the participation itself that directs people's interest. I myself remember that it wasn't until I found out that I had the opportunity to participate in democratic elections that I started thinking much more about what to do with that right. It is quite remarkable in this context that the main course sets up a set qualifications for each subject and for the basics. For example, at the end of high school, it describes a student's qualifications by permission of a president: ▪ Overrides the ability to be active and responsible citizens of the democratic community and the remote community It's no more complicated than that. The graduate of a elementary school is supposed to have become an active and responsible citizen in a democratic community. Why not let them share in the community? It may be as simple as that, since participation itself is what controls interest. These were reviews from youth councils. I would like to suggest that elementary schools and high schools would help their students send in envelopes, get personal comments from those who would otherwise be elected to this change. I simply suggest that the bill be accepted, completed at this assembly, and that students and youths who are willing to participate in a democratic community will be allowed to participate on their own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u142	A respectable president. I find it quite a milestone to discuss this matter, not just because the case of this material has been presented five times in the past ten years, but also because it is one of the issues in which we are moving from all the political spectrum here at council. It doesn't happen every day. Not all of us necessarily agree on the matter in this room, but it may be normal when we talk about the vote, which is probably one of the parts of the Democracy program that are most understandable to be conservative. That's why I'm totally well worth it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason when he puts a few question marks on the case. But because the senator calls for harmony, let me point out one line of harmony that I can see to myself that we will succeed, this bill will be a law. The political groups were involved at 16 years of age. We trust people to participate in the political work of 16 years of age at the same time, and we do not trust them to make the final decision in the booth until they are 18. In fact, there is one tiny discrepancies, there is one class that leads to another age, the Independence Party, allowing people to enter 15 years of age, and there is a natural step ahead of the rest of us. The list of whenever people can do what and see all kinds of things in which there is no harmony. We may take a test on 15 - year - olds, although we may not be allowed to drive until we are 17, we receive tax cards and start paying taxes when we are 16 years old. It may only be normal in a community of people who are not excel documents but organisms and therefore have formed organic society. I'm one of those new members at the council, who first participated in a real campaign this fall. I got enough on top of a list to make me feel worth being sent to a real event. I agree with those who are known as high school shadow elections as one of the most powerful and fun we shared in the campaign, where we met young voters, who were still half-groups, half-groups were young voters, and the other half were the two-year-olds in the colleges that don't have vote. There were good discussions and helpful questions directed to us candidates. One of the things I learned over there was that at the first meeting, I talked to the young people in the hall about young people's languages, which was a natural complete father, which I have learned from. These young people had natural questions about politics. They're to be answered. They are people who are not necessarily defined by how old they are but whose viewpoint differs from their viewpoints. And it's supposed to have a voice we're supposed to listen to. We are committed to taking into account the viewpoints of young people when making decisions in this room by the United Nations Children's Convention, which we have valid. We don't do it enough. We don't often send matters to the discussion of young people or other associates in which young people meet. Except when it touches exactly the young people's business. We do not send changes in the health system for the comments of young people. Consider an example. Young people's viewpoints were not called after when it came to the reduction of high school, which, though clearly, had the power to get the views of those who were using the ministry. There is something that we need to learn, no matter how this case ends, but we may learn it much sooner if the first two years of the voter are children. Then we are talking not just about young people as part of the community but literally part of those who brought us here, part of those who gave us their commission to sit at the General Assembly. And although it may not be the most ludicrous idea of democracy, that we think more of those behind us, of those who voted us in elections, I think it might matter to some. I think remembering these young people can help us as a 63 - man seminar, not just when we go to high school to talk to them before elections. It has been suggested in previous talks that there is something to be done to increase the participation of people, especially young people, in elections. It's obviously a bit harsh that it wasn't until 2014 that we started measuring election by age. So we do not know exactly what evolution is. But we have evidence of it in the Icelandic election study, as we have seen. It's a quick dip under 30. The campaign program of people under 30 is somewhat lower than that of older ones. Obviously, we do not know who it would be with those between the ages of 16 and 18. But it might be better. The campaign program there would be even higher than those in the groups just above because we see in the showers that came out of the last three elections that in the years two before 20 years, there is a slightly greater participation in the election than in the years immediately following. It may continue to increase until 16 years of age, for we always feel when we meet these young people that they are intensely interested in social matters, even though they cannot find the connection with organized politics. But it is our job to process it. Lowering the election age is not the only solution to increase the election, but it can be part of the solution because basic schools have a powerful job in democracies, not just with special democracies, but by practicing democracy in their school work. There are many examples of how successful it has been, from the youngest of high school students. Here we are referred to a student body meeting at the University of Isafjordur, who has been rewarded for applying the entire scale within the school where students sit down and discuss the subject of the school with a national conference plan. Other schools are well experienced in comparable councils, either annual or regular events. After a short time in God's Word, I can name Brek High, Sala, Hondal School, Oddy School for Fire, Blue Forest School, Ásbjörn School, and the University of Stykishol, in addition to the basic school of Isfjordur, mentioned earlier. And the fact that students in the school sit together and discuss the subjects of the school along with the adults working there, discuss their conclusions, and see that listening makes a huge difference in the lives of those who are involved. That's what losing the election age sends a message about too. They are not just some people in the city but they are people we listen to. Every four years we listen to their votes. In between, we listen to it too. I think politics is good for this. I think democracy in its wide context is good for this change. And I think then we need to examine all the other smells of this, whether or not at the end of this term will change the constitution to reduce the election age to the Council and the election, whether we should look at national votes or the local elections of rural society, as mentioned in the preceding discussion. We also need to consider the place the democracy education has within the school system so that it is ensured in all basic schools, one of what was presented in our conversations with some of the youths. Yet, the basic schools are better off than the short - tailed secondary schools are cutting down all the articles and all the things that are not listed at the core of the school work. Democracy is then applied, as is done by many things that are listed below the edge of the education system. We need to turn this around in the high school system, strengthen the democratic education program in the elementary school system. Thus, this could lead to 16 - year - olds who come from high school, where democracy is active and are also well educated in the political system they are about to participate in as voters at 16 years of age that we reach the point when they graduate from basic school to catch them on this wave, where they have just come out of what is expected to be the deepest democracies of school. They become active participants right away rather than have to wait for at least two years before they become 18 years old. Then, these 9,000 new voters will have a good effect on the political parties and the community when they start listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u143	A respectable president. I'm one of the people who's making this case. I'm going to put it on the table that I may not carry the heat and weight of the existing paper contract. It was written by other people, but of course I agree with what it says. I support this case because I support the level of rights and responsibilities that are being proposed. I myself am a messenger of a direct and indirect election right to rural governments for people who do not have Icelandic civil rights, extending their rights to the present. I support the development of promoting the authority and rights of young people. In fact, evolution has not been that way in recent years. Consider some other issues, e.g. The age of self - sentence, which was higher some decades ago. The age of swimming has also been higher than it was a few years ago, i.e. Children need to be older when they go swimming. It was tried to increase the figure of a car to 18 years, even though it did not work out. Various developments have further been involved in reducing rights. There may be some opinions about the changes that have been made, whether to tobacco rates or to the age that a person may go swimming alone, whether he is good or bad. It's no doubt good to be a child in Iceland, and maybe better than once, but I have the impression that children and young people are less of a time. A child or a young person wakes up during the day and has a slightly less control over the way he will arrange his day than he was once. That's even. of the points I mentioned. It is also because things like organized leisure work take a great deal of the day of children and young people. When it comes to a age limit that may arise, there are conflicting questions. This is where we park, for example. so that the leisure concentrations of various rural communities, which are usually until 18 years of age, will be placed in the hands of people who can get leisure strength, i.e. making a decision for them. I find it somehow fascinating. I'm fascinated that the people who are concerned, even though only the oldest two years, can have something to say if they really want to be in all this leisure work or was that decision that was made solely to help a parent's day? Then there are conflicting opinions about it. Of course, children and young people have differing views on all things. But these are some cases that would be nice to have a more interesting dimension of the discussion with the fact that these increases of rights are coming in here. We have at times talked about it, so with this change, we will need to listen to some other group more carefully. But, of course, there is one of these things that is also a positive step, and we cannot rule out that one day, people under 18 can, if I get it right, get a direct vote for rural government. That would be fascinating and interesting. I can mention that during a council, the youngest person who has taken his seat is 21 and 100 days old. That was a good time. paritaprevir Bjarni Halldór Janusson, from Upstate, did this a few days ago. It's a big hole, as it were. It is a group, at least three years'march, that chooses us, is part of the social contract to authorize some people to decide what is permitted and what is forbidden, which has decided that a part of these people may drink alcohol and some things will not. The first three years of this series have never been represented at a council. I would like for it to change, that someday someone was still younger, and this record would soon be hit. I thought that would be a positive development. Moving down your age will increase your chances of doing so. At times, people have wondered why the other is the reason, that participation is not greater than it is seen in younger ones. They may lack more examples of the same age as they do to choose and really believe that someone is a spokesman for their ideals. I hold firm hopes, just as others do. Councilmen, for this to have certain positive changes for the political party, although no doubt they will also come to the day when many will not be delighted with the changes, because if they have entered the entire school for political parties, they will need, and have them, to attend the target group with their political message. There have been times when a person's viewpoint has been heard that he has not necessarily accepted it when he has entered a school setting with some kind of political message. I'm not shy about it at all. I don't think politics is an ugly thing, not a thing to hide from young people, whether it's political or non-politic. But it could be that someone would feel that way. As I say, and I'm not going to take a long word at this time, I support this bill, for I am its carrier. I'm an agent of transportation to a different bill, which is similar, because it's going to be a ballot in local government elections. I was asked to refer it to a management and surveillance committee, and I wondered if there's any reason why they take it here and there. If it goes to the General and Education Committee, I'll be happy to deal with the bill there. Other than that, I've made my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm not necessarily asking the senator or giving an answer but mainly thanking him for reminding us that even though we have been in 1984 18 years as an election age, and hence 18 years of age were elected into this house, it was the first week that someone could get into this house at 21 years of age. That's three years we're not making full use of. It seems to be something built into all these systems. For example, while we have a 35 - year limit to being president, the current president is the youngest in Iceland's history, age 48. I'm not so worried that in the countryside all 16 - year - old agents will be inundated if these laws pass through. But I think it'll be at least interesting to pull the average age really down. It has often been so that youths in rural governments have led a series of revolutions. Wasn't it The Frink Art of Isafjordur, who was mainly driven by people right about 18 years old, who managed to change political landscapes until the better? I thank the senator for his support and for being like my general follower that the election rights should be as open as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. It may well be, though, that we have our views or predict what will follow, it is a beautiful thing to the democracy that we do not know. Maybe it happens that some kind of funk-list comes up all over the country. Maybe that's what it takes. It was at some point, and in some way compared, another group received a vote, women, and then a special offer was needed to correct the misdemeanor that had developed. I don't recommend it. I don't think so. The democracy is so beautiful, it will have its own start. I just want to make something good of this, if this bill becomes reality, which I hope will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u146	V.E.G. President. I thank the merchant of this case for bringing it in here. I think it's very important, and it's a good thing that we need to talk about, and we need to be careful. There are various aspects of this and some viewpoints. I had a meeting with young progressives, where we discussed the matter and found myself on the platform where I could agree with their viewpoint. These young people are so well - mannered, reasoned with and opposed, and ponder over matters, as most young people do. The main evidence to support the bill is that young people in elections have recently been greatly involved. Young people have opinions about the society in which they live as they do others. This is an opportunity for interested ones to choose, and this could be an encouraging experience. At 16 years of age, the young finish their schooling and qualify as competent members of the community, but they are not allowed to accept it. There's discrepancies. Changing this means not only changes in election age but also election rates. Young candidates believe that it is possible to examine further whether a ballot should remain unchanged. We have an example from Presidential elections in which a ballot and election age are not the same. I'd like to count a few points. The main problems, so we start with them and have a good thing left, are that an individual becomes legal at 18 years of age. In the meantime, he has no authority over his money or anyone else except a law. In 1997, legal age was transferred to 18 years from 16 years, mainly reasoning that most young people lived in parents'home in their 20's and had their parents'support. Then we can ask ourselves, " Is there any inconsistencies, as has been shown in the case of many here tonight? ' that there are inconsistencies between a person's being legal and not being allowed to vote for local government. Is that compatible? Some claim that young people's knowledge of the media is not good enough. Then it can be said that if the bill is legal, it is important to do something about it. It has certainly been done, with increased democracies and democracies in schools and youth councils in rural society. In fact, though, these are indelibly small arguments. For example, it is impossible to say that this determined group has less knowledge than the group of 18 to520 years of age, and that is, in fact, something better. I can't see there's a possible flaw in this. But there are quite a few of the main advantages, and I'm going to get a list of them here. Young people are likely to grow in political interest. That's fine, that's good. We need to motivate young people to become members of our community. We need to open the way more fully and have more discussions on a much larger scale. One speaker earlier mentioned that older people feel that they are being set aside because they are ignored in polls. Then there's another group that's against it. This is not the cross section of our society and of the wide community. It is important that we begin to intervene in the trend where people have stopped being seen at an elected location. We'll have to get some more at the polls. We must further activate democracy. It is shown that those who are able to make use of the voting rights young are likely to take advantage of it. That is an unambiguous choice. This is an opportunity for youths to mold their lives and their future. As older ones, we should not tell them how things should be, listen, and get them in total with us. I think it's normal. This is natural in view of the completion of school responsibilities, so youths are more involved in society. If I look out of the country where I come from, many of our children have left home at 15 years of age and have to take care of themselves. This is true of much of the nation. Could they not, in the light of political views, participate in political activity, or vote? This is also natural in view of the fact that youths 16 years of age and older pay income taxes, who are in the community with their work. As mentioned in the discussion, the decline in election age has also brought good results. I'm glad this bill's out. I look forward to seeing how they treat the committee and take care of the reviews and hope that this case will get a good opinion and a good job. I look forward to watching it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u147	A respectable president. I am one of the merchants of this matter, so I just wanted to speak up and support it, especially the positive qualities that I have observed in the case of many people. Senators. I even believe that it should go so far as to let everyone vote. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's my birthday late this year, and it's always unfair that it's birthday, and I've had to watch my colleagues, my friends, go and do something that could be done when a certain age was reached, especially since I was a year ahead of school, but I came up mostly to tell you that I had been a year away at school. I often thought that was incredibly unfair. I think sharing in society, molding how we want to see the future, should not be confined to 18 years of age. I'm not even sure that we should be confined to 16 years of age, but I'm happy that we're taking a certain step in that direction. There is no need for many people to comment on the evidence behind this point. The work that follows the bill is very well designed, and countless examples are provided, with good results. Many international institutions, young people, and associates are encouraged, and in reality, there is no doubt that this is the right thing to do. We want to be like Niedersachsen in the German Republic of Germany, I trust it to the highest. My health minister and translators cousin Óttarr Proppé support this case with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u148	V.E.G. President. I don't like this bill as much as the carrier, do I? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. Not that I don't want to give younger people responsibility, but I feel that I'm so classy in the bill. Rights and responsibilities go a little together. We're losing election age, but the same people who can vote and have an effect can't run. It can't be part of a local government. It's just a classy thing, and I don't think it's working. I've been its spokesman, and I can agree to allow people to vote for 16. But I want the responsibility to be 16 years old, because we believe that the voting rights have a lot of responsibility. If 16 years of age can shoulder that responsibility, he will also accept responsibility for his life. That is why I, myself, would change this bill and have 16 years, had been elected to rural governments 16 years and 13 years of self-destruction. There's been confusion that people can do something else, get motorcycles, slap test tests, something like that at the age of 15. Of course, if the guardian says, " No, you don't get one, he won't get one. ' It doesn't matter how much a pterosaur test. Prescients are with their parents. Your child won't get tested if his parents don't. Also, the child goes swimming only if his parents let him. The child does not do this and the other without parental permission. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not just agree that we will correct the terms and the age of self - control? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with many of his findings. I have, for example. Never understood why it takes a certain age to volunteer for the President of Iceland, so those who can vote for a president are not elected to president. I understand how you feel. A senator is very well - versed, and he agrees with many things in them. In terms of self - sentence, I have to admit that I'm not entirely trusting in myself to say so. I'm listening to reasons. Senator. Many things that 16 - year - olds, although not 18 years old, can do. They are independent users of health care and things that may not be necessary here. But I'm listening to a good argument. A senator, agrees with some of them, and I would need to have a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u150	Madam President. I come up first and foremost to thank you for a fine discussion on this subject, excellent comments, and questions that were raised. In view of the fact that many people have fallen asleep. Those who spoke up are among the representatives of the matter, and I want to state that I was especially pleased to hear it. paritaprevir Her Egilsdóttir, Elisabeth, expresses her view of this matter. Although it is clear that there is not a complete monologue in this court, I allow myself to be optimistic about the fact that it will be discussed by members of the council right now. It is a pleasure that we are reaching out for a review, and hopefully we have time to discuss the matter on a committee so that it will be treated on a judicial committee. There are many good points that have come out. I believe a part of giving this new group this right, that right, of course, is going together to give him additional responsibility. I think everything we've been doing about increasing emphasis on education for democracy and one of these concerns is preparing this age group to take greater responsibility. I concluded my talk earlier, saying that it was important for me to trust young people, and I think this group is very ready to do so. However, I believe it is important that we discuss what we think of harmony in law and such. There was an excellent concern. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who pointed out that all political parties have a 16-year-old limit, except the Independence Party, which is 15 years old, to share in political activity. Then we are likely to be giving them groups, at least in my political movement, the right to select a representative, e.g. in the past or in the series of tests, or what they are. So, then, do we not want to give them the right to participate in the final elections? But most of all, I want to thank you for the discussion. This has only developed discussion about a committee reference. I suggested that the case be referred to. The General and Education Committee, however, concluded after the discussion that I suggest that the case, as before, be referred to the General and Education Committee following this discussion and hope that we will receive it back at this Council to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u151	Madam President. I hereby recommend a hearing that the president of the Generals will be assigned to appoint a committee of three agents to investigate the secret trade route of Iceland's Secret Bank. In addition, the movers are here. paritaprevir Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Ála Guðrún Helgadóttir, Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, Gunnar Ingiberg Gunnarsson, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdosdótir, and Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson. Madam President. For centuries, Icelandic people have complained about the corruption of those who have established the top laws of society. Much of this was the case with officials such as priests and businessmen, but it came to pass, when the world opened up to the Icelanders, especially because of the many social changes in the 20th century, that the complaint was changed or directed to another. The so-called fairy tale, Marshall aid, and so on. Then the spears began to spread to those who did business, e.g. A group of people who were suspected of firing money away. By the turn of the century, banks were owned by the public, and the result was disastrous for their owners, i.e. People. These consequences led to a rapid investigation of the issues that had failed in the past and that were not considered any deeper in the years. I had now thought of bringing all these reports here in a pita but for two reasons stopped. On the one hand, I'm sick and there's no room, no table to put them on, no exercise table I could have kept in my case in support. It's, it looks like, like, six basic tests. The first and most famous is the natural one who bore the title Interpretation and Causes of the Falling of the World Bank of 2008 and related events. He wore nine volumes that are more fun for one another. Another publication in this series was the Study Report of the Allegorical Committee on Study of the Motion and the Cause of the Challenges and Fall of the Springs, which left little for the first commission. Third of the series was the study report of the Allied Committee on the Substitution Fund, etc. As you can say, the fourth report - or how to put it, it was not a personal report as such - was the remarkable Panama documents I mention here in this series of timeliness. Certainly it was not a report or a failure, and what had been wronged but simply evidence in large banks, mainly electronically. The fifth publication, in this series, was a fine publication that was only on, that is, the fine writings of Iceland's Owners in foreign territories, a survey by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs of capital transport and property administration in low tax areas. Of that report, there was a great crowd. This is located at a conference hall about 50 cm, or some of the research and reports. That's fine. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the athletic behavior involved in presenting these up to a sick island. The sixth publication and the latest are named by Hauck & Aufäuer Privatbankers KGaA in the privateisation of Iceland's Bank. In 2003. We were delivered over a month ago, if I recall correctly. In fact, these reports show all, in different ways, to morals, errors, incompetentness, inadequacies, and widespread corruption in various fields, especially politics and commerce. Then I come to what I hope to mean the beginning of the next step to inform the public of one of the fragrances of financial life that has been wrapped in, what I hope will be the next step in informing about matters that were lost in the last few years and lost. That's what this sounds like, with President's permission: In accordance with law on research committees, the Council concluded that there will be an investigation on Iceland's Secret Bank. The study will be entrusted with three committees appointed by the President of the Generals. 1.mg. 2.g. review of research committees. The NTSB will evaluate how the U.S. investment route was established, including Its implementation and economic impact. To this end, the committee will account for: a. The funding brought to the country on the investment route, b. Where the capital came from, c. what persons were enrolled for the money brought to the land, or for any estate, and for their possession, d. how the money was brought into the country spent, i.e. to what investment it was used and how that investment has affected the Icelandic economy, ... whether the government's fund was due to this and the magnitude of that loss. The commission returned its results in a report form as quickly as possible and no later than 31 January 2018. A report says: This proposal for Congress is presented on the basis of Article 1. Article 6 of Study Committees, No. 68/2011, which says: In order to investigate the issues of an important matter that concerns the public, the General Assembly will appoint a research committee for the Generals. The purpose of this synonym is to give clear light to all the capital transfers made through Iceland's Secret Bank. On Iceland's Investors Routes: Since November 18, 2011, U.S.A.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: During the months to come, Iceland's Secret Bank will provide high - price markets, where the bank will buy foreign currency in exchange for a dollar for domestic investment, as the investment will be extended over the long period of time here. The trade is a factor in the disposal of capitalization movements in terms of the Federal Bank's budget for the disposal of currency stores from March 25, 2011. The aim of Iceland's secret bank through its trade is to facilitate the release of a currency school, without causing significant instability in the interest of welfare and money, or the level of financial stability in the future. The method of investment means that investors who intend to invest in Iceland for foreign currency can buy dollars for a share of the currency at the Bank of Iceland. It is clear that the person is investing at least the same amount of dollars in normal business with financial institutions. It is also a requirement for all funds to be spent on investments within the country, according to additional requirements for advertising the investment route. Also, investments already owned by so-called high-consumers, which have remained in the continuous possession of the individual investors since November 28, 2008, will be able to invest in the same way as the advertisement shows. They will likewise sell foreign currency to a domestic financial agency and will be able to move to the land of their land. The financial value of an African bank that would have to be permitted to import in this way corresponds to the equivalent of the foreign currency invested in a domestic financial institution, calculated on the gangs produced by the Federal Bank tenders. The report published by the financial and economic secretary, the Progress of a fiscal emissions programme, 18 March 2015, reports that 1,099.2 billion. EUR 206 billion k. has been transferred to the country through the investment route. It also shows that 47.2% of the budget was used to invest in bonds, 40.0% in stocks, 12.2% in property, and 0.6% in stocks. It is clear that the influx of this budget has had a major impact on the Icelandic economy, especially on the Icelandic real estate market. Of the national property of Iceland's Icelanders and the investment route of Iceland's Republic of Iceland, says: ▪ Over the years, criticism of the investment route has been loud, but conflicting arguments have been supported. - Some people have been talking about the money route of Iceland's Secret Bank. This criticism may have received both wings as the report of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the property of Icelanders in nationalities, was published in early January. The report, in fact, says:: ◯Mechanization of information on capital flow in and out of the country, e.g. left a country's inhabitants and just as part of their investment route is not available. In particular, the tax authorities have not been notified by the Sensitian Bank when it comes to suspicious financial transfers. (August 4: Neglect about possible improvements, pp. 47.) In fact, the study proposed to this subject is in part an answer to the above report and that it will, most not least, shed light on the hidden part of Icelandic financial life over the past few years and decades. A respectable president. I finish my speech here in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u152	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's speech and contributions. I'm not going to spend long in the input of the proposal, but I'd like a representative of the Commission and Control Committee to wonder why. A senator that we now have at the Council together laws on committees and we have over a half meters of time to work on the products of such tests on a variety of grounds, both of which was the major study on the fall of banks and then a specific study report. A member of the Sanhedrin took the lead in giving a talk. I think it is important that we regularly rule out the benefits of such approach as one of our many ways at the General Assembly to carry out our surveillance duty to the Commission at any given time. We took to photograph the weightiest package, i.e. The large study report, all the reports, considerable inspired and discussed it in the subsequent committees, etc. and we agreed on 63:0, all kinds of plans to change and improve our practice and work things right into the future. Some of these things have happened, but others have not. I want to ask you why. A member of the council is convinced that this is the best way to go in an attempt to reach some sort of bottom of this truly important question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u153	Thank you. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir Savvardir for the counter-sponsore. Yeah, Pirat's council is confident that this is the right way. You see, the results and indications received from this latest report on Hauck & Aufäuser were very positive. A study like this, this analysis, lets us see what has been done in the courtyards, where it's made a mistake, where perhaps something has been done criminally. If we don't, if we don't do this, we'll lose the chance to settle this. It can also be noted that it is not excluded that some positive ones will come out of this report, and perhaps this will lead to some who disagree with the current discussion and feel that they will be exonerated in just such a report. We must remove a veil of this secret. Although there may be no consequences other than at least Socially, at any rate, they become pressured by the subterranean and democratic tactics. Then the purpose is accomplished, in part, at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u154	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. My answer is expressed more in order to communicate with him. A senator at this point when he is making a recommendation for a new investigation rather than in itself having doubts that this investigation is to be done. I think there's good reason and there's no reason why we shouldn't. A senator says it will be done. But I'd like to, because it's all fresh on the part of the senator and the officials, to ask him if the representatives of the case were thinking about how the Council could, in time, make sure that a product of such a study would be used. Now we're getting the report and it's referred to the management and monitoring committee. The Board of Directors and Control will work out the case, and the case will be discussed again at the General. The problem is, should we arrange to reexamine the matter after four years, after two years, after five years, after something, so that we judge ourselves that we never fall into temptation of whitewashing, i.e. we have reports coming out, and we think that we've been touching boxes and we can go on like nothing's happened?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u155	Thank you. A senator resists a second time. I have to say it's one of the best ideas I've heard in a long time. Let's do it. Let's do this. Let's make regular occurrences, look over the road, rip up old reports. I'm a historian, and I see what's happening. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is comfortable with this work ethic. But yes, we should, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-02-61.u156	A respectable president. I thank those who obeyed. Thank you. paritaprevir The Svavardísdótti Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for his answers, and it is recommended that this council's resolution be made to the Council and Control Committee for bail. Madam President. I've finished my case.
