ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. The prime minister of his policy on behalf of the government will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the International Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. The Prime Minister has 18 minutes to history, while other members of Congress have ten minutes to first pass, in the second and third round, the members of Congress have five minutes each. The order of the classes is in all of these: Independence category, the left movement, the green supply, the Piratars, the forward groups, construction, the bright future, and the Conspiracy. The speakers for the Independence Party will be Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson in the first round, Sigríður Á. Andersen, second traffic minister of justice, and Páll Magnússon, 1st. South, round three. The speakers for the left movement ◯ green supply becomes Katrín Jakobsdóttir, 2. Smoke. n., on the first round, in the second Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, 3th. That's the north side. , and in third round Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, 6th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" To Pirata, Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, 3th. Smoke. n., first round, Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 9th. We're out of here. "In the second round and Eva Pandora Baldursdóttir, 5th. Witchest. "To the third. For the forwarding party Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, 2nd. South, first round, second Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, 9th. Smoke. So, and third round Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Residents will be in the first round of Benedikt Jóhannesson, secretary of finance and economics, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, marine emissary and agricultural ministers, in the second and third round of the Þorsteinn Víglundsson, minister of social and equal rights. For Bear's future, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the second Björt Ólafsdóttir, the Environment and Resource Minister, and the third round Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir Thorsteinsdótir, the 12th. We're out of here. The members of the United States will first pass on Logi Einarsson, 9th. That's the north side. "Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, 10th, South, second and Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Bránn, 8th. Witchest. "In third round.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u2	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. Tonight, members of Congress will be discussing the coming affairs of the council. We will look at things from different perspectives and lay them out in different ways. This is part of the political landscape and has likely always been. It would also be futile to gather 63 members of this hall who would agree on all things. In effect, it is the nature of democracy and, at the same time, the purpose of the Generals to form a subspecies of opinions and to produce objective conclusions. I'll be here tonight, including... discuss health, chicken and tax, pension, and the affairs of the elderly, economic and employment markets, parishes and futures of young Icelanders who will have a completely different reality in wide contrast to previous generations. I will tell you that we are strong and probably never strong, that we have done much well, but we can do better, that there is a great responsibility to play from this fine position. Good citizens of the country. At present, economic conditions and prospects are truly good. Strong fish stocks and large numbers of tourists, better trades in the foreign markets and successful solutions in the fragrant population and the continental problems have strengthened the economy and solved much power. Despite the high pay rates, the crown's strength has kept in check and has produced an unknown salary gain. Therefore, it is largely up to us as to how we can maintain the success we have achieved. We know that there is no way to prevent natural fluctuations, that we have experienced it over the years, or that we have experienced international instability. We cannot prevent the worsening of business or other outside conditions. We can only thank for the fact that, at the moment, most of us will join us. In the past few years, there has been mainly a new spot in the state to pay off debt and extra expenses for welfare matters. The debt of state funds has dropped by 400 billion in the last three years, as well as the debt to our pensions. At the same time, we have strengthened the welfare of our country. During the past three years, the cost of health care has increased by 50 billion dollars. We will continue this course. The government operates on the clear policy of promoting social infrastructure. However, it must be patient to build up the built - up wood, and this must be done in accordance with the material and circumstances of the occasion. Last year a fine agreement was achieved here at the General Assembly on a significant improvement in the interest of the elderly. The daughters of social security have gone up a lot in the current year, and next year, the payments for the pensioner from the insurance agency will reach 300,000 dollars. per month. Looking back, we will see that in 2015 the same payment was 225,000 dollars. In solid prices, this is a 25% rise in just three years. Of course, this is a rapid improvement, and it is a product of economic success, but we know at the same time that there is still work to be done. What the government has put in place now is raising the roof because of employment during this average period. Good listeners. What a joy it is that we are finally heading for the spring months to make the first shovel to the treatment core of a new county hospital! Yet, it is clear that this great investment is not enough. Stress in medical institutions will not disappear with this shovel sting. We need to improve the development of services to older ones who have greatly contributed to the success of modern society in recent decades. We need to improve the service of the generation that laid the basis for what we take today as a course of object, transportation, education, and health, to name something. We need to build up a nursing home. Such investment will in time not only benefit the elderly but also reduce the pressures of clinics and pay the streets of others who need health care in Iceland. Good health services and equal access to all the people of the country are the guide of this government. Good citizens of the country. Although we Icelanders have had a lot of success in managing matters over the past few decades and progress in important areas, it is still a matter of growing dissatisfaction in a labour market. We stand far behind them in surrounding nations. There are so many outside the world that it's amazing that we should allow ourselves to keep busy. The 1980's and the 1980's were a continuous sad story that would increase pay and prices. National treaties led to better work, and inflation was lower, small, but there was a greater increase in pay and prices than in our business people. In recent years, pay increases have reached new heights, but the interaction of various factors has helped prevent loss of inflation. As we look for fine examples in other countries, we see that there is a basic conversation in neighboring countries that will open the discussion to agree on how much wages can heal for a short time in economic stability. There is no evidence for such an agreement in this country after it has become a special sport to speak down the SALEK meeting and declare its death. At the beginning of the crisis that we know is ahead, the government has requested solid financial advantages with public unions. This includes some. how the state can attract and maintain qualified staff, e.g. reviewing work preparation and other work factors in the working environment which are increasingly important to employers. This gives you an opportunity to improve your lifestyle. In the past, the importance of contracts in the labour market is important. Everyone recognizes this, and all parties must live up to the same responsibility. It is obvious that negotiation is a responsibility, but the right to not negotiate is also very difficult. When you leave the stage in Iceland's dress interview with contracts that don't seem to fit in with stability, you start a party game that we could call "Who's the framer?" How many times will we have taken this game here in this room to try to find the defendant? The Secretary of Money? Any prior government? Any of the Ministers? A community, maybe? It is all too simple, however, to shift the blame on the demands of employees, individual employers, or after experiences, such as my subject, a government, or a community that has succumbed to pressure to negotiate when the methodology itself to produce a conclusion is as faulty as it really is. The search for the accused draws us from the main point where Iceland's work model is actually ruined. I know it's big words, but who can object when each hand is against the other, even at the beginning of the negotiations? There is little cooperation, and the organization in a dress interview is random and very variable from one dress interview to the next. How little we have in the past few decades to correct this is today the largest single weakness of Icelandic economics, but since inflation has been controlled for a long time, all employees have benefited from the development of pay paid for the past few years. The figures show that long-term salaries have been similar among individual groups, but in the dolphin race each union has its version of the position. Now we must simply achieve a higher standard for the reference period, improved pay records, and the cover of collective agreements. We need to develop a better organization for a better conversation where the national competitiveness allows for the scope of the collective agreements. Good citizens of the country. A recent report on the tax burden of pay paid people was published since the turn of the century. Back in 1998. The conclusion was that the tax burden had increased, especially among the most treatable income. This may be correct, but it does not change, for another viewpoint reveals much more. It is much better to consider progress and biodiversity when we look at the development of provisions than the burden of taxes. Since 1998, provision of partners at the minimum with two children has increased by approximately Three o'clock fixed. So it is far easier to support ourselves today than it was in 1998, even though the tax burden of individual income groups could be shown to have changed to the worse. I'm going to point this out, because what's important for the well-being of a worker is not a sum of money or a tax load, but the dollars that people have between their hands. That's what it's all about. There has also been an increase in the number of crowns. They have improved dramatically and have improved in a similar way in all income groups. The appeal of increasing inequities has a good life in the discussion. The fact is, however, that no nation will measure more pay than Iceland according to the annual assessment of OECD between countries. Nevertheless, it is claimed that pay balance is an independent problem and is increasing in Iceland, but this language does not measure up, as the data of OECD clearly indicate. It would be more important to look at opportunities for more valuable things and to increase in the number of jobs that meet higher pay. The greater competitiveness of the country will be gained in better terms for all, especially the most rewarded groups. Good listeners. The Government Constitution for this council is well covered in another hundred matters, ranging from money policy and health to personal protection and stage list. Such numbers can make it difficult to provide trees with the forest, but the large picture is that communities face complex global challenges in the environment, climate, health, energy, food, population transport, and security. Because of rapid evolution and technology research, the fourth industrial revolution is now mentioned. The changes will likely have a fundamental effect on the way people live, jobs, leisure, and people's relationship with one another. It is vital that we keep our eyes on these developments and adjust our society to these changes. This involves our opportunity. It is a key to Icelandic society to prepare the generations that are now growing up to cope with a changed community and workforce. Clearly, more than one third of the workforce is going to change or even disappear. At the same time, it is clear that instead of their work, new jobs will be made, work that will require another skill that is important for us to prepare future generations. In the years to come, progress and change in education will be great. It is essential that the Council and the government defend the way, show the real courage to revise the education system, and thus create the necessary opportunities for these future generations in their new reality. But these changes will not only affect our children and their future. It is also clear that the biggest predictable changes in the years to come will also affect those already in the workforce. In the coming years and decades, workers in various fields will need to improve their knowledge and ability to follow the flow of new times. There's a lot of pressure on the government, on the career, on the labor movement, and on the education system. This development is and becomes a real challenge that we must face and contribute to the time, energy, and resources. Good citizens of the country. Government mottos are balance and vision. The government is responsible for politics. It stresses the potent structure of infrastructure and welfare, good government management, and that Iceland is an active and well-appreciated member of the international community. To the world around us, Iceland is an ideal society where economic well - being is high, well - being is equal and equal to others, and equality and tolerance are abundant. I look forward to the winter ahead, the many and varied subjects that wait, to cooperate with the people in the country, with the workforce, with political parties, and with members of Congress. All of us have a common responsibility to defend the fine results we have achieved. Next year, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Iceland. At the same time, we are going to move ahead and make the best of the future, taking advantage of the opportunities it offers, as are those who originally laid the foundation for national sovereignty and independence. In this way, we will ensure the best standard of living for Icelanders for long and long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u3	Madam President. Good Icelanders. V.E.G. The prime minister discussed in his talk primarily good economic conditions, and there are many practicalities. However, there is also evidence that our wealth is far more indistinguishable than what the prime minister considered in his talk. We have a language, a language that we have used to write hero stories, romances, politics, criminal stories, rap lyrics, and graffiti; a language we have used to talk about everything and nothing, to define right and wrong, good and bad, how we feel, everything that is complicated, and everything we don't quite know what we think of. This language is ours, and it connects us with our past and roots, from our land mines. This language is not default. Reduced reading, collapse in publishing, technological changes, altered communication, all of this affects the language. It should be our priority here in this room to work together on what is needed to protect our tongue in a completely different world, where new generations are increasingly using other languages to talk about their own interests and at the same time lose this important element. We also have a unique nature, nature that has been a gift to us through its resources, nature that has value in itself, and we must be protected. Modern - day decisions have already had a tremendous impact on Icelandic nature. A unique landscape has been sacrificed in various projects designed to promote Icelandic employment. Is it time to pull a line into the sand to protect the untarnished nature that we possess? My fellow Americans. The harbor at Hálvík, in Deepvogur, has an enormous list of frontal works for Sigurður, son of Guðmundsson, where several granite eggs can be seen modeled for birds laying in a Deepvavig shrug carpet. In this place, as in so many other places in Iceland, you meet with nature in a unique way. This place and many others I visited during the summers, admired the light and nature but, at the same time, the magnificent works of art. A man and nature can live in peace - a way in which the human spirit and nature talk. We Icelanders have made progress in this conversation, but we still have a long way ahead of us. We are faced with huge questions. Can we gather for the peace of the central highlands and turn it into a national park? Can we get a solution in fish farming, where nature can enjoy the doubt and we protect the biological diversity of the wild salmon strain? Can we have this discussion without getting caught in the holes of capital and national settlements? Can we, who live in the urban area, show understanding to those who have endured for years and who struggle to survive despite decisions, including some of them? Here at the General Assembly, have they been opposed, those who wanted to make a bell but never had a chance to compete in a so - called free competition with the people who received the quatane? Can we have this conversation, but at the same time make decisions in which we choose to protect the natural world of this land, one of the most precious treasures we have ever been entrusted with? Our tongue and nature are rich, which is important in how we carry them. Our association is another precious thing. That's where we share our public quality. We also have a common idea of what makes us a community. But what is happening to the idea that we want to build a community? Society is a covenant that is to be based on righteousness. For one thing, it is called after the Constitution changes that the president of Iceland spoke here yesterday. We are under obligation to make such changes, even though in recent years there have been some of the things that have been done for that work. My fellow Americans. Injustice, wherever it is found in society, there is a threat of justice. Therefore, we must never slack off in our struggle for a righteous society. Waiting with righteousness is tantamount to refusing justice - as Martin Luther King put it in a famous letter. Politicians must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting wait for justice. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is a must for all of us. Governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. The current plans for the government now assume that the elderly and the elderly should continue to woo and live in shame - stricken terms. They're supposed to offer out-of-work people with a full-missary rights of 217,000 dollars. per month. The lowest wage in Iceland is still in 280,000. It's not enough for alimony. And people on the lowest salary are asked to be grateful for 20,000 dollars. Because, more than that, there is little to it. Sadly, only righteousness has to be waited for for you, when it's the way it's done, when it all works out for the better. When these poor people are asked to wait for righteousness, they are being denied justice. The same can be said of refugees who are looking here. A considerable number of children are dismissed from Iceland than do get asylums here, children who have certainly had very little choice in their fate. They're sent from here to countries that the computer says are safe or more experienced in welcoming refugees. No matter what the children have to say. Politicians point to an out - of - date Trinity rule saying: "The justice will have to wait for this time. The computer says no.How's the computer treating you? But can we say that a community of 36 children who are expelled from the country - considerably more than are allowed to live - is just? It's not about some politicians. And I'm not saying that systems are bad because they're not but the basic duties of politicians are with people, and the guidelines are to serve the people, to ensure justice and compassion for all. Can we say that a community in which large groups of people are held in a poverty trap is just, people who have never chosen to be uncooperative? My fellow Americans. I am concerned that despite economic growth, this common understanding of society is missing. I worry that too many people are asked to wait for justice. And because the question is what causes people not to agree on simple things, such as priorities, it is appropriate to answer my question: In Iceland, the government needs to rely on them to eliminate poverty. This has not been a unity at the General Assembly, although some politicians speak as if here all agree on the balance of the tax system. But we have not agreed that the role of the tax system is to secure the equation. Here, governments ready to face and respond to the fact that the richest 10% has three fourths of all wealth in the country. The reward equation as the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier is, in fact, just another part of the picture about the equal community. The change of possessions tells quite a different story. The growing mismanagement of wealth comes directly from political decisions that have so far been made that it must not be taxed; nor should the tax payment of capital owners, such as ordinary employees, be put on a very high - raise step, such as those that make up for financial payments, which many members of the Parliament often make jealous talks about, but are ready to go through the tax system. The same can be said of the political decisions that have been taken into consideration the improving systems, growth reforms, and child - welfare benefits, which are useful to increasing numbers. There are also political decisions that, on the other hand, have not aimed at estimating and reducing discrepancies. Here, governments that are willing to make political decisions are needed to eliminate poverty and, at the same time, reduce the wrongs. This is where the government needs to build up the education system. Colleges and colleges need more money. In harmony with this, more of the legal committee in their Committee on Financial Plans last spring took place. These tips, however, do not appear in the budget bill. It is claimed that there should be an increase in money for each student, not by raising money, but by reducing the number of students, as if too much education is a special problem in Iceland. It is possible to make a political decision to improve and build up the education system, bet on investment in education, research and science, which are at the same time the most important basis for a floral career, and one of the most important instruments to increase the equation and provide the basis for individuals to move forward on their terms. Here, governments who want to build a social driving health system where the Landspians are playing their part, the health care will get funding for being the first stop, put money that is far more important in improving the health status of a mental health professional, which is a major problem in our good society, stressing the prevention of human health and health - a government that doesn't have the vision of health care to provide personal care, which in turn pays its own money on public funds. It is a political choice and political decision. More important, there is a need for governments, especially children, who have sexual abuses. That's what this summer's political discussion has been about, and it's important to society. This project must be carefully covered by instruction, a change in implementation, and a restoration of legislation. That's what we have to get together in this room, across all classes. Madam President. My fellow Americans. Recently, political discussions have been talked about as a result of a discussion of the inadequacy of senators, the labor hours of members of Congress, and other factors that make us a member of the Parliament. I have to say that the members of Congress are my own known privileged class, people who are privileged to be elected here by the public in the country, is well paid to do the job of ensuring public interest. And that role is to be taken seriously. The role of the public is that they have a political choice as to how this country is governed. The role is that no one is asked to wait for justice, that society's institutions are righteous, that politicians make sure that the system serves the people, not the reverse. Our primary role is to protect the real wealth of this country, the most important possessions, some tangible, others incomprehensible. Let us not forget it at the council ahead, which I hope will be productive and good for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u4	President. My fellow Americans. Imagine Iceland in about 30 years. In what community do you dream of living? I know that it is often difficult to look ahead. Yet, there are entire groups of servants who work as numbers. Even meteorologists have some choice. The banks have a wide range of prophets on how prices develop and how to make the most money. The main convention of Pirata is here for a review: 1st Update Iceland with a new constitution. 2. Guaranteing a fair distribution of resources. 3. Rebuild restricted health care. 4. The public's access to decision-making. 5. Reinvigorate trust and tackle corruption. If they were to succeed, the following prospects could become a reality. Tapes for about 30 years: The requirement for a new social treaty, then called a constitution, had become so rich after the larger national meetings held around the republic's 100th anniversary that rulers saw no other way than to respect the nation's will. The first meetings have become some kind of legend, so great was their influence and result. National meetings are part of our daily lives now. They are sometimes large and always random. Any major issues involving the nation can be addressed to this conversational scene. Most people still choose to come in person, and the opportunity to meet people in real life is no more fun than to talk about society. In the early days of the national meetings, it was referred to a virtual system that developed very rapidly in the void after a major collapse in 2020. The most beautiful thing to do was that by means of virtual reality, people could find a way to put themselves in the footsteps of others in such a profound way that the endless fuss of details became an old echo that slowly disappeared, biting in the fog of memories. A wonderful computer game was developed to help people observe the subjects they burned before and to adopt their votes while a slow and bitter council became randomized. Today, the council is wide open and active in the area where laws and policies are worked in close cooperation with those who need to live by the law. Moreover, laws have been updated and simplified, and it is easy to have laws that have defects or are out - of - date. The public's authority was greatly increased, simply because his right to information and influence was legalized in our highest law and democracies became almost as addictive as ◯Candy Crush's. Where there used to be a military base, the north is now known as the Silicon Hill. In between the beautiful greenhouse malls of Rhines, you can see an omorphate of data sources that house sensitive and important data from all over the world, including this prohibition. Civil pay was introduced in steps, first as it was similar to the experiment in Finland and the Netherlands, which was far more extensive here because of the small number of us. All clientes of the employment agency and the insurance agency received unfounded basics. People were no longer defined as unemployed people. The number of anxiety and stress disorders was greatly reduced. All kinds of interesting projects and volunteer work came into existence very soon after the experiment was expelled. In civilian experiments, everyone was surprised to learn how much savings was involved in simplifying and uniting dozens of resources for stratosphere. Thus, it is only a fraction of a fair profit from resources that began to finance these changes. The induction of the restricted health care programme managed three years ahead of schedule. Involuntary efforts in administrative manipulative work have created a management program that has benefited greatly from the educational system that has brought it into the modern world and is now becoming part of the normal development of work in a completely changed labour market. Today's people also lose appreciation for their secular work. As a matter of fact, there's strange health at a distance, and creativity is about to fall away from the country. In many places, however, the quietness of killing people is inexhaustible. Of course, workaholics always become workaholics, but the big difference is that people are driving themselves to work that they love and that they cannot really explain to their grandchildren what stress is. But I remember a time when sick and old people were stored in tunnels in mold - based clinics, and people simply fell out of their own hands in the mental - health safety wards if they did not just die at home because of the rapid return of the people to their homes after complicated and difficult operations. I remember they were going to privatize at the same time we were supposed to pay a lot of taxes. I also remember what it was like for all those people, who were in the middle of the good news in 2017, not even a roof over their heads, and who were in tents. In fact, older citizens were punished for their work, and they paid for their work. I also remember when drug addicts were put in prison instead of helping them to health. Absolutely incredible, to be honest. I also remember how politicians got up against people together and while they were fighting and being ashamed of media contact because of something that filled them with holy zeal one day and was forgotten the next day, the wealth of our common resources disappeared into a tax pool all over the world. Happily, however, international peace became a major issue of funding transport in drawers and tax collections around the world. After the worldwide collapse of 2020, many nations had to reevaluate their priorities and sustainable goals. It was that the whole world slowed down and all the hard work that took place in various minds during the 2008 collapse that was supposed to help prevent what took place in 2020 was finally accomplished in many parts of the world. It was also about Iceland. In 223 it was decided that bank operations were not integrated with financing. The social security network and the bar that many call old Iceland are a term for history, and the Internet was a new one to promote cooperation between researchers and whitefish crime specialists. Iceland finally took a distinct position to protect the freedom of information and expression, to keep the privacy that was almost lost for a while. But I remember when I first arrived at a council in 2009. At that time, the senators viewed themselves as powerless tools of the executives and did not seem to realize that they had their commission from all those crosses on the ballots. But that soon changed after one of the most powerful members of the country ran away from the confidence of its voters and simply expressed distrust at the General Assembly. As a result of this refinement, other members of Congress decided that the only way to cope with growing distrust in their work was to work together and open up the council so that the wisdom of the masses could be used in complex matters. Finally, a future committee, represented by all classes, was appointed, regardless of their size. These changes occurred shortly after a major collapse, causing all committees to open and accessible to all, and the real work being done at the council became visible to all. All legal procedures were transferred from law agencies to an open procedure at the council, and the execution of the laws and regulations adopted by the nation. The period during which members of the Parliament were used as a windowscane for their ministers came to an end. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u5	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. It cannot be said that the government that is now ruling is likely to be a great achievement. The government deal is, as it is known, a thin thirteenth. The government has been running low this summer. It is little visible and floats asleep as the big, small, payoffs and reliefs occur. Indeed, economic success and prospects are good, but they do not come naturally. Success is achieved by cooperation, solidarity, progressive work, and extension, and to the former government is greatly involved in the progress achieved. As growth in national production is expected to continue, time must be used to build up for the public, for the people of the country. It's true what happened at the highest. Prime Minister, it takes patience to build wood. But if not now, when? According to our candidates, right now is the opportunity to expand our basic services and build up. The basic message of a talk is the highest. The prime minister does not directly indicate that there should be a few hundred billion wastes left on the budget to provide the health, education, and transportation system for the future. Health institutions and schools need powerful building policies, not collapse. The people of the land want a wide variety of services to meet their needs at any given time, regardless of their location, and access cannot be limited by the economy of the people. In order to meet future challenges, there is a key to education's diversity and the stimulation of innovation so that our largest resource - human resources - will be enjoyed. There must be a bridge of knowledge between school and professional life at all school levels. Also, it seems that the government does not intend to use abundant resources to invest in transportation, which is one of the most important investments we are facing as a nation, since the road system is in many countries. The elderly need to continue to make better use of the work done during the last terms. Those who led the way for us as younger ones should have respect, equality, and reasonableness. We candidates want to make it easier for them to participate actively in the community by quickly picking up a flexible retirement process and increasing the number of vacations. Then recent legal adjustments in housing should lead to revolution and assist in the purchase of first estate and in securities less expensive. The ball is even. for the rural population. The problem, however, is that the largest rural society, Reykjavíkurburg, seems to have plans to build only new apartments through a corneal display. The economic situation, while good, is one of the biggest challenges that we face in economic affairs for the sake of government growth and abnormal mood swings. The interaction of hair growth and footprints must be investigated to prevent abnormal fluctuations and to prevent harmful effects on export branches. Discipline and cooperation must exist between a new financial and financial policy in order to ensure the stability laid down in recent governments. We'd also like to see the failure of the banking system. The banking system should be healthy and should be a service to homes and businesses. The common consumer needs to be able to trust even. for the surveillance is effective and the maintenance of financial institutions. Many efforts have been made to restore trust, but there is something in the country. This link sent the person to the highest request. Prior to spring, the prime minister on the Secret Service of the Federal Bank received a rather poor answer about who has been serving for the bank and who has purchased property. In other words, the public cannot know who bought, how much, or how was paid for them. At the same time, the Ministry opens accounting. Is it reasonable that when he handles the public property, he can hide behind the bank? But the biggest issues that lie ahead of us are undoubtedly the climate. The government is now working on a program submitted by the last government on the basis of the Paris Convention. It is important to support innovation, investment and to develop knowledge to speed up the necessary technological changes in renewable energy and energy exchanges. A respectable president. It doesn't belong to anyone at the highest. A prime minister has a serious problem controlling his group of associates. Like a big brother, he allows them to jump forward with declarations and then hit their fingers. The result is vague direction and blurred message. However, a bright future that seems to be engineering was not softer than in summer that the environmental minister used this hall for commercial purposes for a private company, thus breaking a minister's code of ethics. The last government established a code of ethics for them to be carried out. A health minister to direct one of the most important agencies forgot to take the industrious squirrel and his outward appearances as a model that he gave us such a pleasant story of a few years ago. A minister of finance, sometimes said to be in financial care, made an attempt to increase the income of credit card companies and banks by removing $10,000. The cash. The minister's reason was that tax fraud should be avoided by the public. At the same time, ministers and members of Parliament compete to speak down the crown and to adopt the euro, the largest of which is 500 euros, equivalent to 65,000 dollars. Good citizens of the country. It looks like the government is on its own. The lack of direction and direction is complete, and when suggestions or actions appear, they are placed under the heel where they land. Great things are low with the government. It is our politicians to fight for change to foster basic activities and to increase jobs through innovation and education. As far as I can see, agri-gri-gri-gri-future is culminating so that there's a total collapse in the story and the secondary activities around the country. The independent party accepts silencelessly but is responsible. A similar sad story is said of a recent report by a minister in fish breeds, where the results are presented without adequate analysis and working directly under the carpet. Of course, we are to exercise caution and ensure that, as we have already done, the contribution of wild salmon strains to form in 2004, with the closure of all major fish and flea resources for fish farms and in 2015, by setting in new laws and rules for fish farming. Good citizens of the country. We fishermen believe that the situation in many places is an excellent opportunity for us to keep up with reasonable growth. However, a different government policy is needed. We can afford to live better with lesser ones in our community. We can eliminate poverty from children. In many parts of the country, despite this development, opportunities to build up are open, but a recent building report shows that economic growth varies greatly from country to country. During the West, he was, for example, one. negative by 6% in 2008-2015, while positive in all other parts of the country, there were differences. With the same services and circumstances in every country in our country, Iceland is stronger. We're supposed to trust our communities with developing sustainable communities. For example, the debate on the West is understandable and is expected to be a town meeting on September 24th. a section in which that part simply says: 'We want to have it in our hands to build sustainable employment, transport and access to electricity and other necessary infrastructures. It seems to me and the candidates there that the government will pass. In all parts of the country, such discussions are being made because the government is indifferent, passive, and aimless to build up the whole country. This needs to be changed. Government monographs, balances, and vision, are beautiful words, but they are far from reality, for they seem to focus primarily on those who have money. It is not surprising, therefore, that the government's support is historicly small. Therefore we shall say to the forwarders, Let us put our hands together, all here in this hall, that we may make the worst of the few, to use the time, and the good economy to build up without increasing the thistle. It can be done. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u6	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Here in this room, we often discuss matters of the past. Me and the Icelanders are a history nation - but sometimes the only purpose is to discuss the past changes of history. Though history may change, the past remains unchanged. Even if we are sometimes trapped in the past, it is more common to think of the present time and the future that we will face in the future - or at best during the terms of the election season. Of course, such discussions are needed and necessary, for now is the time in which we are living. In the present, there are times when it's dark. Sometimes it's darker than good. Although experience teaches us that this is not the case, we are prone to assume that present conditions will last forever. How will the future be? Then I do not wonder about tomorrow or the year 2020, but I ask: " What will be the situation in 30 years or 50 years? It is such a challenge to prophesy, and all we know is that such prophecies are often wrong. As politicians, however, we should never be snooping about the future. If we make all our decisions based on the past, the result will be wrong, for we do not know what challenges are facing on the other side of the corner. What will Iceland be like in 2050? In the meantime, it's 1 3th. Will it be said that we have walked for the good? Just 25 years ago, the Generals discussed whether Iceland should accompany other Western European countries by entering the European Economic Area. But most of us would agree that we owe much to the prospective members of the Parliament who agreed to Iceland's four freedoms and common European legislation in most areas. At that time, the rights of the Icelanders in the EEA and the rest of the population in this country were guaranteed. It changed a lot. In 1992, about 2% of the population were foreign citizens. By the turn of the century, about 5% of the population was born outside the landstones. In 2007 it was 10%, and today it is about 14%. One in every seven people is born abroad. What will that be like in 2050? Will that be a quarter or a half, and how will such changes affect society? In many respects, we Icelanders are a liberal and open people, even though that has not always been the case. Prior to a century ago, our land fell by sexuality that was condemned. A large percentage of the people are now flocking to the scene when queer people are celebrating - and everyone rejoices with them. In many lands the collapse resulted in the formation of sects of hatred and prejudice. We Icelanders and I have largely been free of such groups, and so far they have not been established. But when we look at the United States, the sexier democracy in the world, most of the 20th century, we see what has happened there, and it could happen here too. It's a good thing people see Iceland as a land of opportunity. It's a good thing Iceland is free and open, and we have to make sure it stays open. Madam President. In Iceland, there are now more than 70 of them. Some are tiny, even with dozens of inhabitants, but they have the same obligations as the capital with their 125,000. Surely, we can see that much larger groups must become reality. I can see that the East, West, and Southnes each become a strong rural society that looks upon the interests of all the people in control. Residents spoke of the use of resource resources in the fishing road in an effort to reach areas where the sea resources are new. With larger groups, rural communities, by this means, are able to manage funds for building in their own area. Good Icelanders. Technology is the basis for progress, and information is the basis for a more intelligent decision making. But how could it happen in the technological age, when we had computers with a greater algorithm and more accurate information than ever before, that the smartest people in the world we thought were working for in the banks put us in a crisis that we've experienced since World War II? We strive to prevent another crash, but the next bank crisis will probably not be like the last one. Technology can help us, but it can also destroy us. The weakness will always be the human factor in which there are many temptations and the greed of those who have much more than enough is unbridled. Here in this room, we must never let our guard down. In recent years, we have seen a bitter storm that we have seen before. Climate change from man to man has global impact. We can't sit next to each other. We have to help reduce the use of contaminated energy and welcome new electrical vehicles. We cannot think of short - term benefits, much less let us put our head in the sand and deny the scientific knowledge that describes the climate change and its causes. But technology has many benefits. Maybe 30 years from now, all cars are going to be self-driving. And when the self - driving cars arrive, will not the driving test be unnecessary? Is the context of parts so complicated that climates affect the arrangements for driving instruction? Is that true, then, is it really possible to predict how earthly life will be in 2050? But the big pieces are light. Motorization reduces the need for many jobs but increases the need for mental strength, creative management, and intuition. The education system has tried to look to the future. All of us will be supported by personal study and independence, supported - and forced - to learn the technology and to associate with it in a responsible way. Good citizens of the country. At the beginning of the week, small webs, open accounts, which show accounts paid by the Ministry, were opened. By entering this site, anyone who wants to see what the tax dollars are about to go on. Some politicians may find this uncomfortable, but taxpayers are entitled to know what their money is going to be. Life is not just about product and economy, dollars, and business living. The beauty and purpose of life are not found in the cash box. Art, culture, camping, relationships, and friendships bring meaning and color to life. Beauty is in freedom. The restoration was supported by the nation's efforts to promote liberal affairs, system changes in behalf of consumers, environment and equality and justice. We have worked hard and continue to make the best for the future. I know that many people feel that it's a slow walk, but I remind them of the man who said his "good God, " patiently. Now! Rome was not built on a single day, and society's restoration takes time. Good citizens of the country. The economic restoration has been successful since collapse, and many groups of politicians have helped. The social restoration is not over, but it is successful with integrity, respect, and mutual trust. Let us not fear the future, but let us be well prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u7	Madam President. Dear General. My fellow Americans. At the beginning of a council, I like to think of the importance of the materials entrusted to us. Congress is entrusted with great authority. But that power never stands on its own. There will never be anything but the means to shoulder responsibility, and it is number one. Our responsibility is rich, and that is, by nature, a positive one. It is a privilege to be entrusted with important tasks. It is the sludge of a parish, as would be the case with the late Rúnar Júlíusson, who would say, "I'm in charge of responsibility. " There's a lot of good in Iceland. Economics are many positive, unemployment is at the lowest level, and in a series of cases, international surveys show that there is an international community in the world and in these areas. But that does not mean that everything is perfect, as it does. There's a lot to make up for. Human rights are the basis for free society. Let us have the courage to fight for human rights and fix our systems if they prove to be defective. The law on honesty is old-fashioned. There is no longer anything that the public members of an assignment or government have ever been like that. These rules are to be canceled. When it turns out that new disposal laws do not guarantee the rightness of children, we should not be shy about fixing those laws. We're here to welcome the President of Iceland's cheer to review the Constitution. These issues are larger than sects. It's a big deal for us to be united in such a matter, all members of Congress. It's not like we're each one of their species here. When I was young even younger than I am today, I met people of the so - called 1900 generation born at the turn of the century. This generation of Icelanders grew up at a high standard, poor housing, low access to health care, little or no education, yet these people gathered in front of the Great Embost Council on December 1, in the middle of the epidemic, the Spanish influenza, to celebrate the national sovereignty of Iceland. These people were not celebrating how great everything was or protesting what sucked. It was celebrating the dream that you could do better and that you believed in him. Remember, we are the people who serve in charge of this dream. We are responsible for developing it and making it a reality. We need courage to think and build up for a long time, to build stability so that we are not always dealing with the consequences of the last headstone or in a forced defense to prevent the next one. Think forward. Let us do what it takes to give in to lofty dreams. So that people can thrive so that people we don't know what their names are can come up with something that we don't have an imagination to support ourselves. The big project is the future, and I'm not just talking about some kind of extraterrestrial science. The future society is especially marked by opportunities. A community where people even have a name for themselves, where everyone has the opportunity to study, work, and take away from background, sex, health, or health problems. It is a rare trait in Icelandic society that we care about each other. Fellow feeling and cooperation in the face of problems, natural disasters and other disasters, are one of our most clear strengths. We are well - acquainted with the value of holding those who need attention. I emphasize mental health matters as health ministers. Having a bright future is not just for prosperity, employment security, and the like. It is the same in pure nature, man - made society and an environment that has embraced open to humans. I'd like to build up a variety of resources, including... ... withtheenforcement of child-adolescents and stronger health care. A total of well over 1 billion dollars is estimated. magazines to promote mental - health contributions through the year 2022. On Sunday, an international day of suicide was held. It was most precious for me to share in quiet moments in the cathedral and other events. Every suicide is a tragedy. Every suicide is defeated by society, defeated by all of us. This indicates that it has failed to hold on to someone in need. We can never agree that this is natural or inevitable. We know that many are already being helped. That is well, and it is commendable. But we can and should do better, step in sooner. You may never be able to hold everyone in your arms at all times, but we need to have a hug common at all times. Enlightenment and support need to be clear. It's the work of society all over the world; the system, family and friends, partners, schools, and also our politicians. Next year, we will at last begin at the construction of the treatment core of the New Land Hospital. It is the largest project in Icelandic health care for decades. With a new hospital, a dream of a better place for patients and staff comes true. The land hospital is becoming even more efficient at work and in scientific institutions. It's a huge project that we've been planning for a long time, perhaps too long, but it's a big responsibility to keep it stressful. There are countless tasks in the medical system that could be mentioned, and we are working on. To me, the key is that the individual's best interests, the patient, are always ahead of time. To reduce the next year's payment will be 1.5 billion. A new system now established in May is designed to lighten up the demands of service. In the years to come, we aim to do even better. I fell into politics to try to be useful. We started a bright future for other politics. We want to have a positive influence on our community and our discussion, and we want to do so on a table rather than in words alone. Therefore, we made the decision, not of itself, to sit down in a government to influence tables, to have a real environmental impact, to support health development, and to help shape the future. We want to shoulder responsibility because our assignments are important. There are many good things, but there is always more to do. We need to keep the ball on top of today's activities, but we must also have the humility and courage to keep our eyes on the future, for it is the most important thing. Generals, we are not just ourselves, we represent the people who chose us, yours, your audience. Let all of us remember that joy, culture, respect, and warmth are among the least important to us than dollars and money, laws, or regulations. Let's do it, let's be good and careful to have a big hug. I look forward to working with all of you this winter. Thank those who listened. - Have a good trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u8	Madam President. My fellow Americans. At some point, it would have been wise for a prime minister to provide a policy discourse at the same time as the secretary of finance writes a financial bill that they held together a little. It seems that these gentlemen did not think of it this time. The lack of communication with their uncle has become embarrassing. While I'm at the highest. A prime minister speaks of the need for good health and the importance of education in his talk. The minister of finance is ambitious of a brief bill in which neither language class is shown understanding. It was the highest. The prime minister's sad contribution into the upcoming dress interview. The unions and members are embarrassed to demand autopsies. It would be almost that the prime minister learned from the North countries, their work ethic is based not only on economic stability, but also on social. The government could begin to understand. In the other North countries, the government investment in the welfare and education systems along with a large proportion of employment reforms in the labour market. Real solutions to housing markets, growing interest rates, and more supportive support for family members would have helped, but in a new financial bill, all of this is in harmony with a nail. Then it sucks that the public's efforts to build up the public's health system should be completely ignored. However, the increase offered will land in the pockets of a private carer and further undermine the public health system. V.E.G. Prime Minister speaks of the importance of aging. Does he really not know that it is a failure for billions? These costs include: Born by several rural communities who have to pay the angle of an exposé designed for other services. It dishonors their competitiveness and is unacceptable. V.E.G. However, a prime minister likely bites his head when he asserts in his speech that it does not matter that the low - paying tax load, the general prosperity that has increased so much. I don't mind the gap between the highest and the lowest paid backs. Perhaps it would be an excellent idea to do so. The prime minister visited some thousands of poor - living children, people who are disturbed by unsecured housing markets, microsurgents who live on hunger lice, or elderly victims of a crisis. He might be able to help them find, and pick up the pieces of bread falling from the table of feasting. We are a very rich country, and we can well offer a decent life to all. It will only be done by classical methods that have made the North countries into the role models of other countries by ensuring all safety, well - being, and education, notably the quality and the store of righteous ones. Madam President. It is important to ride a tight safety net that grabs people if for any reason they fall between ships and docks, ensuring safety and shelter. But first and foremost, it is to create a society that gives everyone the opportunity to grow, to develop, and to stand on their own feet. So it is shortsighted not to give older people the opportunity to work without most of the money being cut off. And it is unwise not to improve the quality of disability, to limit housing support, and to reduce child - rearing. It is true, too, that governments always have an important role in coping with unexpected situations and bringing them to the best of their ability. However, we must not be completely involved in politics, which is primarily about reflexes, whether in the case of fluctuations in the long run of microspheres or overproduction on sheep meat. We must be smart enough to look to the future, and we must be bold enough to have the courage to invest in it. The changes in our society, along with increased computer, technology and self-activating, exactly require it. A future career will have to be increasingly based on evolution and innovation, and we need to rely on such qualities as creation, intuition, and initiative. Increasing production and valuables are essential for us to cope with the changing population ageliness, create a society in which all are active participants, and withstand competition with other nations. Today, young people can choose the entire world, and we must invest in its future if we want to remain in the world's highest order. The answer to this challenge is education, education, and repeated education. Schools need to take into account this new future. Education becomes part of a person's reality in one way or another throughout his life. We are to focus even more on technology and creative articles, but also on culture and art. They do not merely bring pleasure to man, but they constantly place a larger place in the nation's commercial life and develop a creative, original thinking. A school of education will surely cost a lot of money, but in the long run, it will pay a lot of attention. Madam President. Although we have had success in equality, we still have a long way to go. The challenge is not the least about changing society's unwritten rules and values. It is rooted in a centuries - old system that has been controlled by men. In recent years, more and more studies have shown that the role of women was directly hidden into our time. We are still dealing with unexplained sexual pay, and traditional women's work is worth less than typical male activity. There is plenty to be taught and cared for. We also know all the examples of the pier guy who walked to his skin at mid - life. Modern - day hard work is often done by women. Good examples are fish cleaning women and medical personnel. We need to look especially at these facts when there is a bargain in the future. Hv. Senators. We believe that all humans are born equal to human rights. However, there is a fundamental difference between the meaning of this and the way political parties want to go to ensure this. The United States has overpowered the independence party over the years. In the power of 30%, he has sat in far too many governments, despite the fact that 70% of the nation is not concerned with his attitude or policy. Since it is old and new that a boat can get faster and longer if more rivers fall down, it is urgent that groups that advocate socialism and a great team of aid bring together their weapons. We have to define the most important aspects of touch, work hard together, and we'll be real soon. You see, even though we may be able to discern some outstanding developments, we can always unite in one another. I mention the increased equation, a strong public education and health system, a fair amount of resources and a new constitution. If we do not succeed in this, we will continue to be part of the independence party, with well - known consequences, both for the classes, and especially for the community. My fellow Americans. We have not always been a well - off nation, in fact, only for a very short time. Over 100 years ago, we were among the poorest countries in Western Europe. At the beginning of Brekkotti, Álfgrímur, says, with the permission of a president: ▪ At the time I was about to be born, there was a great series of people today named refugees; they are fleeing the country; they are setting up with tears from their homelands, and adopted because their children are so ill that they live at home not to grow up but to die. Those words are certainly from a novel, yet they describe the harsh realities of that era in Iceland. And they came to the bone, especially because it is so short since our ancestors, even our grandparents, were in a situation where they could not, in general, guarantee their children safety, and there was a lot of uncertainty as to whether they could manage. A country that lived in such a situation decades ago must and must be able to relate to others, support them, and show love for those now living in similar and even worse circumstances. Help with one group in a difficult situation is not at the expense of another. As a rich nation, we can afford to deal well with both of them if we merely share the righteous quality. Good citizens of the country. After all, compassion and compassion are likely the most beautiful thing the human soul was given.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u9	A respectable president. Good listeners. In the past, the highest line went off. Prime Minister, in the prosperity we now enjoy, a prosperity that is not self - sufficient and that needs to be drawn out of thought and reason. The government will do by building and maintaining the necessary infrastructure, but at the same time, it will take steps to make arrangements for future taxpayers to be used in wood, rather than in interest of interest paid to the U.S. creditors. Economics are not measured just in crowns and pennies. For each community, there are a lot of value that rules are clear, balanced. Those who do not agree can get an audience and after experiences. An important part of such a legal state is to make up a good public access to the administrations, courts, and the Generals. These three basics of our justice are different, each with its own roles. In line with the teachings of the 18th - century lawyer Montesquieu, these three pillars are kept separate for distribution and maintenance of each institution. While these shallows rest on old ground and good ground, there is neither land nor anywhere else that has to be done. The establishment of a new interim level here in the country with a national right, which will take place on January 1 of this afternoon, provides an example of how one of these pillars will change in behalf of the basic rights of those in need of judicial action. The management board has also made significant progress over the last few decades, e.g. with administrative laws that certainly put into paper the rules that had been worked before, but also other new ones, most of them for improvement. So we, who have had the opportunity to sit here in this hall, know how the General has evolved. In fact, it seems like something to whom that changes. However, the council has been changed with the goal of improving the work of the council. It thus takes place constantly on the principal foundations of the legal realm. All the changes that have occurred, however, take into account the old and good foundation laid upon the triune Kingdom government. In fact, some changes have been designed to sharpen this transition. A respectable president. Lately, the management board has been a little underlined on issues that do not necessarily raise many legal questions but, therefore, much more emotions. The law has an ancient law on authority to provide condemned criminals who have served their sentence with good judgment and who have fulfilled conditions of good conduct. Dwelling, doomed men gain an unspotted reputation, but an unspotted reputation is a prerequisite for performing complex confidential work for the public and even for a particular job. On the other hand, honesty does not mean that the offense has not been committed or that it has been a minor offense. A number of years of activities in the raising of the Upstates seem to have led rather than to mechanical payment on applications for renovating, unfortunately, with reference to the written and unregistered regulations of the administrative court. This is where the management board may have carried the legislature. I made that statement officially in June in connection with the discussion of one particular host of inventors to revise the law on revulsion. Earlier in the spring, I had reconsidered the whole administrative operation. I know that my predecessor in the field thought it was very important that this review be made. I will propose this winter's council to be removed from the project of revulsion, but at the same time, I will have to be assured that the civil rights they will receive will lose will in accord with the nature of the case and human rights that we want all to be guaranteed. I would like to mention that the Ministry of Justice has been pleased to provide all the information that it is permitted to provide for the releases of these cases. The Commission's decision-making committee endorsed the Ministry's viewpoint in their recent decision that such information may need to be restricted to sensitive personal information. Already data have been published according to the Commission decision. The Ministry has no intention but to provide all the information that can deepen the discussion of these and other matters. In general, I have heard only men who preached legal changes in these subjects and who expected to cooperate effectively with the Council in their own time. Good listeners. By the turn of the century, foreign citizens were less than 3% of the population, now 9%. It pointed to the highest. Secretary of finance before in his speech, numbers of cops he is. In addition, each year during the past few years, some one thousand foreigners have been granted the Icelandic citizenship rights. Icelanders take and want to welcome foreigners. Toward the end of the last election, there were new laws on foreigners made up of a tripolitic committee of members of the Parliament, a group of members of all groups. They include a procedure that is in accordance with Icelandic administrative rights and the international commitment of Iceland to human rights. Thus, each individual case has a special look, first at the Foreign Institute and then, if checked by a foreign case, will be held. In isolated cases, the NTSB even agrees to repeat its own decision. In these institutions, a number of experts work in various fields, including In the affairs of children. The new law was a great act of justice for both foreigners who are looking here and the administrations that certainly need a clear legal foundation for their work. Of course, in Iceland, there is a rich will to help those who live under war and terror in their country. In recent years, we have been taking groups of refugees to our country. Since 2015, 109 refugees have been coming here, and the government has introduced plans for the reception of 50 refugees next year. We are gaining valuable experience in this regard. People are also coming here by themselves and applying for asylum. The number of them has multiplied over the years. In accordance with law and international commitment, these applications are assessed as setting priorities based on all events and the actual possibilities of these people in order to get out of dangerous situations. This year 92 individuals in our country, in the first 111, and in the preceding 82 individuals were granted refuge. This was expected when we senators agreed to a new alien law that they would soon have to undergo a review in the light of experience. The law section is very rich. All of us are learning about new solutions that have to do with much of the rights. This is a matter of constant work at the Ministry of Justice. I have described it as a change in foreigners who were scheduled for the coming council to accept all council proposals in terms of change of viewpoint and law. I sense that there is a great interest in this group of subjects at the General Assembly. So I have decided to call for a meeting with the representatives of all council members at the General Assembly, who will consult with the Ministry of Justice for the work ahead of the changes in the laws of foreigners and follow them even further. As a result, all the views that exist regarding this sect will be viewed. Good citizens of the country. These two issues I have mentioned will be among the many progressive issues that the government stresses on this affairs of the council. I look forward to cooperating with members of all categories and communications with the voters now as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u10	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Now, with one obvious exception, the state of the government is in no mood or mood, yet has it succeeded in hitting two Iceland record in the summer, not world record, as the former prime minister was pleased to beat, but Iceland's record. The first is in unpopular terms. In the first few months of his life, a government has never felt so secure, so unpopular. In summer, the government of an independent party, a Refiner - and a Bright Future, did it not? - Even strike out the Donald Trump in the unpopulars. Iceland's government had less trust than Donald Trump. The rest of Iceland's record is out of control, out of work. The government didn't have a meeting for over 40 days. For six weeks there was no meeting. The laziness democracy rate, is it? Yet, the subjects were not missing. For the whole of spring and summer, the government has a government like that. Asking ahead of it is the most serious problem of sheep farmers, which is, of course, far more than an isolated problem of sheep's prayers and products. It's a serious community problem, a country's problem, and a whole part of the country as well as social and health issues. Or is the government going to look at one of the nation's most industrialized classes taking a tensile impairment in the fall into the crumbling collapse? This case is very serious. And where wasn't just the agricultural minister this summer, where was the district minister? Where was the social minister? Where was the regional minister, and where was the prime minister in this case? What is the point of light - leading rural areas if, at the same time, people plan to watch the countryside run out for other reasons? Instead of trying to negotiate with them to reduce their production temporarily, the government has to try to lure men into the trouble - quitting, going - instead of trying to reduce their production from living temporarily so that their built - up disorder is averted. A lack of aim and resources is involved in tourism and fishing practices, where a major relief committee is working and her chairman is looking for guilt to excuse the fact that nothing comes out of work, so to speak, before the work begins. And now, on our bodies of senators a budget bill is just as pathetic as the last spring's budget plan, it's based on continued right starving policy. The promise of massive injection in wood and welfare matters is finally forgotten and buried by this financial bill. In 2013, government income and expenditures in one point for the first time for years, said to be effective, were difficult and effective in terms of financial recovery in 2013, in the fifth year of collapse. At that time, the income and expenditure of the state met at the same site 32% of GDP. The right direction that reached the selection has dropped this ratio every year since. State spending in 2018 should be just over 28.5%, 3.5 percentage points less than it was 2013. That's 95 billion bucks. Based on a national product plan of 2018. So we might have, for example. 45 billion bucks. In the welfare business and investored investments, and in the pursuit of a government fund, with nearly 100 billion dollars. leftover if only the state fund had kept the sea, nothing improved its share. That would be responsible, that would be good management. However, the right course is exactly the same dramatic economic error as the condemnation in this publication, the 2010 Commission report, where the same policy in the years prior to collapse was graded. And now the prime minister is in fear of collapse. Unless what? Why should not the head of the Independence Party fear another crash? He'll lead a group with experience. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] They know the consequences of their own course. I don't predict that there will be a crash in the near future, and not least the collapse of the banking system, but the dangers of this application of government funds are the same. And that is a warning on page 19. Ninety-five on this piece of paper, the budget bill itself. It is an amazing harmony with the authors of the 2011 fiscal bill and the authors of the Allied Research Report found out about the same thing, the causes and consequences of the first collapse, and the dangers of the same cycle again. It's so sad, it's so unnecessary, it's so bad for society. We are losing so much good years and so much opportunity to build up properly in Iceland instead of this disaster. And now it stands the same indiscreet, unwarranted, unwarranted, human kindness. Well, it didn't go well to listen to such things over the years before the collapse of the first. We need to get rid of this government. She's articular, and hopefully she'll make it this winter. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u11	Madam President. My dear Icelanders. Civilization is a service. We are elected by the nation to serve it as representatives of the General Assembly. So the senators should rightly be called legislators, and instead a minister might call these slaves the public advisers of the nation. This wisdom could be heard from the words of the Lord Andri son of Thorsson in the thinking of civilized men at yesterday's assembly. Andri's words were firmly fixed in my mind, for of course, there is a number of factors in this in his case, though I regret to give a witness how far that view seems to be in the mind of the present government. We're in control at the highest. A fine example of his attitude toward his social position is the prime minister. There we find a familiar tone. V.E.G. The prime minister feels very unhappy with a nation. It's all in a shiny atmosphere of goodness and joy, but in spite of it, the public is experiencing an unjust society and does not see the party that he has at the table. We are familiar with this speech, and it is a familiar theme of the Independence Party, especially by reason of reason. The prime minister who repeatedly bites the same question that some spiritual weaknesses must be plagued by those who do not see how great and fair and just things are in the society in which we live. It is good to remember the minister's words to the Keyyard Factor to stop, by permission of a president, that it would require some unnatural insanity not to see how great a country we live in, in the country where we live. He did not stop there. He said he felt sorry for people who did this. The same message in a new costume could be heard in the last conference of the minister where he claimed that there was strong evidence to suggest that the postmortem cut had stirred the hearts of a large percentage of the people of the community that a community treaty to secure access to the loss of health care. By permission of the President, the minister said: In recent years, health costs have not been cured. In view of the highest. The prime minister is what helber imaginations in the public that the health system is about to collapse, that the patient's payments have been raised in moderation, and that the National Hospital is unable to perform its role as a result of a gangless cutout and starving policy. According to the prime minister's opinion, this people, who feel that it is not enough and uses their names tens of thousands of times in the health - healing challenge, not of real illness, but of imagination, ill appreciation, and, yes, some very special form of mental illness that he alone sees, must be cured. Don't these people just need a re-education? asks the highest. The prime minister who seems to be like the lame parent in the Ghhtman who has grown weary of a child who does not obey: Jesus, who is eager to have such a nation. Good citizens of the country. Tonight, it is hired people who, according to the prime minister's opinion, misunderstand their position. He refers to an ASI report that in the last 30 years, the tax burden of remuneration has increased substantially, most of it with the busiest. A minister may consider little to be the detailed report of the largest labor company in the country to come, recognizing that ASI is right in terms of tax pay, but it is simply imagining that their worst income was dropped. The fact is, though, that while the remuneration has been successful in raising the lowest wage in excess of any other salary during the requested period, the government, which in this period has almost always been with the independent party within the table, has taken from them the improved profit by increasing the tax burden on these groups considerably. This knows the best. Prime Minister, sir. However, let's see if this is going to go past the highest level. The prime minister is remarkable because he here confirms in the hearing that the main focus of the Independence Party for decades, lower taxes, is intended not for the worst, but for only the better. It is good to have what many have long known confirm that the independent party works progressively to improve the interests of the more prosperous at the expense of the memory. It is worse to watch the prime minister and his party continue their deception toward the nation and to accuse those who do not believe their mother that all the people of the land sit at the same table in their economic feast. This advanced rhythm of the Independence Party is well - known, and the traditional method of bullying into power is, in fact, spiritual violence, which involves giving the sufferer irreverent wrong information with the aim of making him doubt his own memory, perception, and reason, doubting his own mental health. And this methodology was surprisingly quick to spread on the independence party in a government that seems to see as one of its most important works to convince the people that they don't understand anything and that they are extremely unfair. It's not that the health system is private, says the highest. A health minister while cutting meals in the Clinical and taking money into his private sector in this year's budget. More difficult, I find it difficult to tell of the entire administration's attitude toward this policy of the oppressor, whether they are deceived by repeated and deliberate misinformation, or are actively involved in upholding it. Yet, a non-sustaining challenge can be said. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson with regard to Róbert's insolence, Árni of Hreiðarsson, that there was no offense against them, is a fine example of this ill - mannered rhythm. Also, government officials have failed to comment after the discovery of a minister who told the press and the same violations at no time has the right to inform the facts of the case. That is a statement that has failed, as it has now been. Government officials also feel that it is all right for the Minister of Justice to force the general public to see that his plea for humanitarian treatment of two young girls to flee is just some matter in which the discussion might be handled by chance and that it does not even think of doing anything. Madam President. It is this government that needs a re-education. In fact, it would be a fine example for the president of the Generals, who intends to listen to the public attitude toward the General and its role. It is taking its place as a legislator. This government could also follow the advice of the Republic's president and give the people the new constitution they requested. She also needs to learn to tell the truth and to say it right away, that is not to be taken for granted, and that is to be out of the public information with wear. Above all, the government could listen, listen to the people it is to serve.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u12	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Prime Minister made it clear that the country must have patience to build wood according to its current material and circumstances. Understandably, the government of inactivity calls for patience. It is, indeed, that patience can be virtue. Many things can be achieved with her. However, there are many basic community projects that cannot be tolerated. If these matters are not addressed today, the cost will be much higher in the future. The good people of the country. There is community reconciliation and unity to improve health care in Iceland. In the forwarding category, a body of candidates proposed a hearing proposal for the preparation of a health plan for Iceland adopted by the last council. We place great emphasis on our mental health, especially in their care. An educational meeting that discussed effective prevention and support for families after suicide was launched on the international Preservation Day of Suicide. It was shocking, but the main message was that if you work to prevent prevention, significant results can be achieved and lives saved. I know that our health - care professional is well aware of this. But governments need much more support than is now being done. There is no special patience for any further delay in investment in this category. We have to do better than that. Good citizens of the country. Last government, sales for older citizens increased by 24 billion since 2016-2017. However, a limited number of older citizens were affected by the decrease in the holiday target, which, in many cases, meant a significant decrease in the provisional element. These are the very people who are still in the workforce and who want to keep working. Not only are these terms worse experienced but the fact that he has been severely restricted is that older citizens are to leave the job market. I think this is a tough message because the nation's life span is rising rapidly. I say, you need to raise your holiday target again. It needs to be done a lot faster than we now expect. We owe older citizens that we act quickly and safely. Indeed, we in the advance group are ready to work for the realization. It now happens, and I direct this to the government, that this group of older citizens has no patience to wait for further action. Good citizens of the country. A respected extra tax on books is to be canceled. Me and the Icelanders are a book people. Books play a key role in the education system and communicate our history and culture to future generations. Since 2008, colporteurs have been convened by 31%, and sales figures for the first four months of the year show a strong contraction. There are likely a number of reasons for these contractions, such as increased use of communication media and other forms of recreation. However, it is important to deal with this trend. Norway, Faeroe Islands, Britain, and Ireland have all taken away a worth tax on books. As a result, sales have increased dramatically. Clearly, if this trend is not addressed, the publication of the New World Translation will decline significantly. That is why there is no patience. Therefore, in the coming days, members of the Agency will provide a bill for a change in the law of merit taxation, which includes the removal of taxes on books. I encourage other members of Congress to bring this matter to us. Good citizens of the country. I believe it is possible to further advance government management, to form together institutions and additional responsibilities for the management of the state's funds. We need to continue to reduce debt in order to reduce the cost of growth, which adds to the scope we have for financing welfare. It is vital that our priorities in welfare and that our basic roads are allowed to flourish in a stable environment. A successful future lies in the government's understanding of when to take on urgent progress and when to endure no waiting. I am fully grateful for the coming ceremony, and I look forward to the cooperation here at the council and the conversation with the voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u13	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. To some extent, it is envy to address the basic elements of our Icelanders, marine and agricultural sectors. The marine bus is a vivid example of a sector that thrives because of good management, a system based on sustainability and scientific counseling, so that our cod stock of Iceland has not been stronger for 40 years. What has this meant? This has translated a more valuable and competitive standard of living that returns to society and enables us to handle common tasks, such as education and welfare. But the matter is not undisputed. The challenge we face is to establish a better settlement for the use of the nation's common resource. It is the political task that we have and must not compromise. In the past, politics, all categories, have solved a difficult challenge in this area. There is nothing against it ever again. All members of the council are now represented in the Sea Sacrament Committee. Thus, all classes can come to this reconciliation that should continue to promote sustainable, economic, and, above all, fairness. I would like to make a statement about a world of Congress, though it may be a dog in some people, to work earnestly to provide the marine road permanently. A growing fish breed is promising. Its subject will come to the council in the winter. If we keep up - to - date, it will be a industry that will make a great deal of money for our community and will also strengthen our country's settlements. The test balls I met, and the owners of fish farming companies in Norway, which I recently met, strongly advised me, please take it slow, dear Icelanders. I agree with that. We must ensure a good balance between innovation and environmental considerations. Our reputation in the area of sustainable natural resources, such as seabeds, is good. It contains something of value in itself. Of course, fishing can strengthen that image. A group of diverse stakeholders on the shape of fish farming policy agreed to aim at the so - called risk assessment of Iceland's Marine Research Institute, the main marine and water research centre. The risk assessment varies, but it is the foundation we should build on in the long run. It's going into international reviews now in the beginning of October. Of course, all criticism should be taken seriously, handled properly, of course. I would like to point out that next week, we at the Sea Department of Waters are meeting for breakfast on the exact risk assessment. Many, though, may not have missed the fact that the sheep's flocks have been quite in the limelight lately. She deserves that at all times, considering the choice product, the nature of Iceland, which we're not supposed to be shy about, both to Icelanders of all ages as well as to foreigners. However, in the last few weeks, the discussion of this article has been clear. We all want heavy agriculture in Iceland. Of course, governments have the primary role of providing the article with good employment conditions. They should keep the interests of the manufacturers, farmers, in mind. But the obligations to consumers and taxpayers are also rich. These interests can easily go together, although some here find it hard to digest. These are public interests. Since my conversation with sheep farmers began in spring, the picture has changed. Today, the challenge of living now appears to be smaller than last year. Perhaps there was more reason to take action. But that was not done. I believe we should learn from the discussions over the last few weeks and discuss the value of sheep farming, farmers, deforestation, slaughtering crews, consumers, and government. In the meantime, it may be appropriate for the products to revise the reduction of the products to farmers. This could help to improve the review of the article, for its own good, and to build trust. It is proper to stress that the power of time is truly indelibly intended to be answered. All kinds of products are already under way. Farmers themselves have pointed to me with a wide range of ideas about what might be done, such as increasing quality and freedom for farmers to choose other branches and take other steps. I have personally called for long-term solutions that keep the same problems from happening over and over again. I'd like to use extra freedom in agriculture, innovation, market work, and goods development. We need to simplify routines, think of carbon equations, and promote a closer relationship between farmers and consumers, such as through the production and sale directly from a farm. With diversity and freedom, the article becomes stronger and more attractive, especially for young farmers. Our mission, Mr. President, for these important sector of industry, fishing, and agriculture is to build an environment for vision that at the same time can adapt to changing times, changing demands, and needs. We politicians can never stand in the way of natural evolution, and it is none of us in this room to fear wise and moderate changes. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u14	President. My fellow Americans. By the day before yesterday, eight months had passed since I, represented by the voters of Brighter's future, entered the Environment and Resource Ministry as Minister. So I made two main goals. The first was to turn our land in a decisive way by the way governments have followed in recent years in excessive greenhouse gas emissions, including those with the inference to contaminated heavy industry. The greatest step along that route has already taken place. There will not be discriminatory agreements on the polluted industry in this government, or in whatever government the future will have. During the following months, a major step will be taken, as there is a climate planning that I, along with the prime minister, will follow. To counteract climate change, everyone has to be permanent. The plan of action is a cornerstone of looking further into the future, where we have all manner of manure to be a devoid of carbon. In January the next, we will have measurable and time - appointed goals on how different tasks will be carried out. responsibilities and responsibilities are distributed because there are many opportunities. We all need to work on one of these huge joint projects. Good citizens of the country. The other main objective that I set for myself last January 11th is the protection of the vast and unmoved nature that we find in the central areas of Iceland. These are our precious things. They are not found anywhere else in the world on the standards we know them. The rivers of the spring, and the rivers of the spring that spring forth from the lava, and the rushes, and the tops, and the glaciers. In the middle of the country, there are places where a man can be established when you look around, where no one else has gone down before. This is the experience that few places in other parts of the world give. That's what the tourists know. That's why they're coming here. This knows the farmers who pick up their money on a mountain every fall. They know the locals. We have to protect this. The work this eight months has been going well. In climate, there is an active task management with representatives of employment, partnerships, political parties, and rural groups. In the highlands, a major diagnostic work has been carried out. I have also met with all the 22 rural communities who live in the middle of the country because it is important that we understand and trust in this project and that people can see their best for it, especially for the settlements. It is our firm belief in a bright future and a red thread all over our work that good things will become better and last longer if more people come to them. My dear Icelanders. It is my first and last obligation as Environment and Resource Minister to work on the protection of our natural resources. We have no permission to walk on it in an insurmountable way. Nature in its widest form is the resource that also gives us the most back. A bright future is a small group, and perhaps it will not be there for years to come. Maybe it'll be huge. It doesn't matter. What matters is the issues. It will lead us in the bright future. They're bigger than us. There are naturalists in all categories. To intend possession of the category is to form a black/white debate, which is not for the benefit of Icelandic nature. I am very proud to have promoted the interest and understanding of our fellow workers in the government of the important environmental issues. I'd like all members of Congress and ministers to spread around the natural and environmental world and set and their high goals there. That's how we get on. It has to be said that it is particularly enjoyable to agree with us in a bright future that nature's protection is, in fact, a major economic issue. It is also good to see other groups at the Allied Assembly turn away from paying favors for faunas and herbal factories, but it is now turning toward a better future in opposition to pollutants. I'm afraid, as the people of Smokeytown know best, we have not said good - bye to this problem in spite of our good intentions. The decisions made by earlier governments have provided for this. But now politicians, local government officials, pension funds, and banks need to listen to the public rather than work for the money. My fellow Americans. Finally, I'd like to mention the immigrants' language. A bright future wants to increase the variety of Icelandic lives and celebrate those who want to move here. At the same time, the pack has been speaking for responsible long - term thinking and the care of equality. There is now a bill that defines a better sensitive position for the children who are looking here for international protection. This is also a better understanding of the State's responsibility in these matters. That bill is worked with exactly these vital points in mind, responsible long - term thoughts, and equality. I hope the General agrees with us in working on this matter. My dear Icelanders. I have now in a short time - too short of time - a review of how a bright future is working toward important matters for the overall interests of life. So we are going to press on. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u15	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The American dream is called when poor people can secure and their good living and education, reach their place inexpensive measure and improve. However, studies show that this dream is far more likely to come true in the North countries than in the United States. After a meeting of Barackur Obama, president of the United States, with presidents of the Northern Country, in the spring of 2016, he said: If more allies were like the northern countries, the world would be safer and more successful. The Norwegian model that Obama wanted didn't fall from the sky. It is based on equations, cooperation, and social security. The foundation and support that have resisted the procreation of liberalism went along with strong labor movements and union unions. The three pillars, a good economy, the well - being of all, and the organized workforce, stand together like the feet under a three-legged chair, if one breaks down. While many problems have been faced, the North countries have succeeded in being exemplary. What now threatens work markets and normal competition between enterprises at home and neighboring countries is what is called social subspecies, but what is really nothing more than stealing and cheating on employees and cheating on markets. Although most companies are doing well, the problem is growing, as is the case with other crimes, in the dark, and in the face of daylight. Economic growth in this country has been great in the past few years. This economic growth would have been only for imported labor, with the most common presupposed. It is intolerable that our well - being is partly based on fraud and the rights of employees. We in the United States will not sit quietly and leave unions alone to point out the injustice. By means of financial management agencies and police agencies and unexplained legal responsibility, governments allow crime to grow. My fellow Americans. Children's families can be confident that the United States is working for them. Improving the situation of children and equality in young people is our main emphasis. The Norwegian states attract young people, especially children's families, with more support for children, better circumstances for students, shorter hours, higher pay, higher currency, and credit rates. Longing birth vacations for one year and making sure that preschools can receive children from one year of age are changes that are important to our children. Child damages should be done with all children, and much more housing needs to be added. These essential equations are weakened by the government's financial bill, and they disqualify from what the Norwegian model is based. It is not a law that Iceland must always be inferior to the Norwegian countries. There is no sound reason why we should accept that our people are not getting the best health care available, that we cannot see to it that all older citizens are good, and that disability is trapped in a poverty trap. We should not accept that family members are on guard because of housing problems, that children have to wander between school districts, and that they cannot play sports with their companions because their parents have only wages that work for housing, food, and clothing. We are not to accept the fact that we cannot reach all of us. It doesn't have to be this way, but it's due to political decisions, because the general body of Congress is willing to accept funding similar to those for which the present financial minister will measure tomorrow, with a funded welfare system, and a lack of ability to provide housing. We are to look to the Norwegian model and work wholeheartedly to increase the equation, equality, and well - being of all people. We also need to put up a hard fight against global warming and pollution of the sea and complete our work on the new constitution. We're here to help people escape, people who face threats and problems. We in the United States represent humanity, mildness, and cooperation because we have no choice, because that's what matchless men do. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u16	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. It might be possible to choose today or one of the next as a formal crash day, such as the Aegeans have their day of soda. You see, all benefits show that we have overstepped the economic damage caused by the collapse and good. Also, this year's last Iceland record has been paid for. It has never been as great as now, not even when its high economic feces reached its peak in 2007. In addition, the difference is that it is now a real treasure creation behind that power rather than just a foam like that. I realize that in these good conditions, it may be somewhat reversed to be a member of a government body, in fact, also in a board of directors in case of that. The first reaction to the budget bill yesterday was to call this right policy; others called it starving policy; and why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon did not fail to meet this point in the past, calling it the right hunger policy. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, the reality is different. In fact, government spending continues to increase, an increase between 2017 and 2018 is 30 billion. With the exception of pay and prices, i.e. More than 4% real. Those involved in this rise are health and welfare issues. For example, expenses on the material of the elderly increase by less than 4 billion in actual values, 5.5%. Yet, governments demand higher and faster, greater expenses, and higher taxes. From the political point of view that I stand on the power of the much rather criticize the government from the other side. Doesn't the expansion of the state ever stop? Can't you ever lower taxes, just raise them? Do people realize that over a ten - year period of 2007-2016, the state's clean budget has increased to an actual value of about 142 billion a year, about 75%? That's what I propose to the highest. Secretary of finance that he will soon make a list of what that money went on to. There could be an informative reading. In other words, it's time to pause and ask, " Do we take enough of the money we make from the public? ' There seems to be an independent, seemingly complete goal in many government institutions and even a wealth of government itself to shave for the most money, but there is less follow - up in the way it is used. More is involved in bringing money to people than what the people are getting for this money. In the past, I claimed that we could rejoice in economic ultimatums. However, we have not yet returned to the one lost in the collapse, trust, or glue in the community. There we have work to do here in this room. Let's start with ourselves, as the priest suggested yesterday. Stop e.g. to counsel one another to protect themselves from sexual abuse or not to want to show compassion and compassion to children who are affected. Does anyone in this room really think that I have more sympathy for child molesters than for other people because I am an independent person or less compassion for children who suffer for the same reason? - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u17	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. This has always been my desire to say, I have to admit it, but I want to spend the time I have left in discussing only the most interesting things in the world - and yet. I want to talk about responsibility. There's only been a responsibility here, but I would like to continue talking about responsibility and impressing all of us here. I think we're living in a bit of a dangerous time. We are living in a time of calming weather. People can tell any extreme fact or not fact that is called fact. We live in a time where a foreign spirit appears more and becomes a part of politics. I think it's the responsibility of all of us standing here, or we'll sit, even as you do, even though I'm standing, to come together in this matter. Povertyism has been called for when those who are the worst in the community, the elderly, the poor, and the poor are treated with the trustrs and traders. This is a dangerous trend and a trend that we have seen in many countries. Me and the Icelanders are no different than any other people. It's just gonna grow here. However, this is especially dangerous, and we should take it to heart because it is a fertile soil for this course, for elderly, poor, and poor people to live with. And it's our responsibility in here to fix it. I can talk about it, and I'm coughing in a purse as I like to, as I now enjoy doing, but I'm not a member of the board, I can't, by my vote, I can't influence who's going to be approved with the budget, who's going to be approved with the lawsuits. I'm not responsible with my vote, but that's what you do, each one of you, in the management team. You are responsible for the words, actions, and primes of the Ministers submitted. I'm a simple man, I've always believed that you should just stick to what you're saying. You're not supposed to promise one thing for an election and then come out after an election and talk in another way. In the left green, we've been talking about the same policy as we did in the campaign, and I suppose the most popular word in the campaign was not built up. I heard so many times that I was kind of getting caught up in it. It's a tiny neutral word and can translate anything - as has been revealed after the election. All this infrastructure that everyone planned for the election was suddenly gone after the election. It has been considered a matter of economic management, how income bases have been weakened, how we don't use the leeway that has been made in terms of government making the worst of them, but where income bases are weak, they are not even living in the best interests of it, and if the bank hits. I'd like to say that this isn't just fair politics. People are supposed to be able to trust what we say for elections, that we'll be able to do it after the election. I hope each of you here in the board shares my simple perspective that you are to live up to what you say, that you are to think of the worst in society. We get to pay the budget, we get to do the votes for more bills here in the future. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u18	A respectable president. Dearest people in the country. I want to talk to you about trust. In spring, Gallup surveyed the people of the country, where trust in various public institutions was investigated. It was found that 22% of the people have confidence in the Generals. 22%! It's a terrible conclusion, but it's not that surprising. Public trust in the Council reached historical lows after the 2008 financial collapse and has increased little since then. I wonder why. Is it because politicians are all inherently wicked and dishonest, or is this possible because, while the government is not making any more of a showy display of secrecy, patriotism, expert care, and corruption in secret? Of course, corruption is not a tangible phenomenon, and humans do not agree on the proper definition of the term "playing. " No doubt it is in the mind of corrupt government and government officials that they are not corrupted at all because they have never accepted a bribe. But corruption is so far beyond payoffs. Depravity is often a minor factor, not necessarily a law that is broken, but the interpretation of rules is used to achieve a certain purpose. As long as there is no transparency, it is impossible for the common people to be informed about government decisionmaking and activities and to have no reasonable guarantee of success in making decisions. All responsibilities should be met for transparency in order to open up the more powerful in the monitoring of the power memory. In this context, the more powerful are not always the governments and the greater powers in the public but also the government and the General Assembly. You see, the General has a purpose, not only are we a seminar but we have a key role for the Executive Director. For a government to be functioning, it must have a solid part of the Generals, and it is responsible for its decisions against the Council, thus providing a democratic basis for working on. This all sounds good and blessed, but as we look to the fact that here in Iceland, there are usually majority governments, and much emphasis is placed on today's General Assembly today is not fit to play its role because of the abuse of greater power, which has less votes for itself. Although some members of the administrative body do not support certain matters, they still woo and give them a success in not violating the most sacred class halls. Hence, it is even more important that all government decisions are transparent. It is possible only to determine whether decisions were well - informed and to have been used in critical decisions. It is not possible to monitor non-transparent workers. You can't see through black glass. There may be some who wonder why I'm spending valuable time talking about the General Assembly, but the fact is that no real policy to be born in the community will be held if the Allied Council is set up like a cake decorator on a cake that no one knows what it contains. The problem will continue to flare up, and people will eventually give up and stop fighting for their democratic rights and will then take over people who are riding on the screens of hatred and fear in the name of some, but not all of them. Instead of allowing such things to happen, we must fight to wield authority over the common people. The first step in public authority is to revise the Constitution of the country and establish a new community covenant. The Council of Government, bill, says in 15. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The management board shall be transparent... Official data and data should be available without subtraction, and by law the public's access should be ensured by law to all public data collected or supported by the government. Restraining against a new community covenant is nothing more than conservativeness, which is a matter of clinging to an imaginary stability. The conservative people, despite floating fire ants all around them, do not dive into the depths. I suggest that we use this council to increase the confidence and interest of the public at the Council by altering the rule we're doing. Corruption undermines democracy and human rights, weakens the economy, adversely affects business life, weakens government, and destroys trust in public institutions. So let us all side together and work against corruption wherever it appears. Then we may be able to earn the confidence of 78% of Icelanders who do not trust the Council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u19	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. We have a government that wasn't going to raise taxes. It is now apparent, however, that the government, led by the Independence Party, intends to place Iceland record in payoffs. Then the tree of the cross fails as another tree. V.E.G. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson, in his earlier speech, fired on the pretext and hope of a tax conference. Although he became aware of the good economic prospects he had, he was deeply concerned about the stability he faced because of an earlier discussion. In some ways, the one listed here agreed with the minister, including Because we need to be patient with the structure of our infrastructure and, yes, it is important to maintain stability, for it is in our best interests all of us. Other than that, I thought the talk was rather meaningful, and not inspired by the ambition and passion that one thought a prime minister in such a new government should keep an account of his first common budget. After reading the budget bill and reviewing financial secretary's proposals on taxes, e.g. In terms of the increase in taxes on fuel and the increase in cost of road transport taxation, which I believe will be particularly difficult for scattered areas and smaller companies, I understand why the highest level is in order. Prime Minister is not in his mess here tonight. I understand, too, that his members of the Independence Party are not doing very well when they try to imagine what it will be like to sit in the Senate room in a few weeks and press the green button when votes on the 2018 budget are held. The truth is, people don't have the conviction that they need so they can follow such a economic course. Tax rise was not what voters of the Independence Party were promised. Were the voters promised tax increases? What about voters Care for the Future? Did they know that taxes would be raised, and at the same time as government funds yield 44 billion, 19 billion more than expected? V.E.G. Secretary of the budget: Are we really looking for money? If this policy is adopted, how will people justify the huge tax increases, the index increases, and the potential costs? How will the government survive an entire assembly winter? And I ask, in spite of not yet mentioning huge differences within the government, such as the future of the Crown, the European Union, the future of sheep making in the country and food production in general. V.E.G. President. Good listeners. I would like to quote an interview that appeared on mlb.is today at Runólfur Ólafsson, the executive director of the FIB. He points out that according to planned tax changes, diesel oil increases by 21 k. a litre and gasoline, about nine bucks. a litre. In view of the usual use of a family car, expenses on a single car increase by 30,000 to 60,000 k. For such expenditures, you have to earn about Fifty-five thousand dollars. the income for the increase. Based on these figures, there is a small increase in the rate of disability and sensibilities for those patients, since the minimum financial level for a person who lives alone is expected to increase from 280,000 to 300,000 k., 20,000 k. - An extra. I also assume that the rates of taxes will have a profound negative impact on the debates. According to the bill, the income of rising taxes is not supposed to flow for transportation. No, however, the government could take good care of it. Fuel also weighs heavily in the index. That means that all of us will be raised by the seat of our home. The increase in financial resources seems to lead to little or no stability with this rampant course. A respectable president. Is this really the way the public thought they were accepting in the last election? Or is all of this a terrible misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u20	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. We are now experiencing a growing political turmoil in the world. In many places, the root is the same. Increased freedom and opening of markets has increased prosperity. The situation has diminished among nations, but there has also been an increase in national discrimination. Incorruption creates fertile soil for extremes where hatred and hatred and society are stirred up together. Freedom has brought us great benefits, but care must be taken for all to enjoy it. World Economic Forum published in the days of an article showing that the opportunities to improve are the greatest in countries with an equality. You see, the American dream is Norse, as it has always been tonight. The North countries are on top of other countries, and I'm glad that in this country, income is the largest in the OECD states at the same time that commercial power is at the most historically high. I'm new in politics, representing the revere of a liberal political party founded a year ago. Many now strive to define us. We are even taught by some on the left wing, and on the right, some feel that we are a socialist. It may reflect the left - handed problem of confusing liberality, of not knowing freedom, and of showing at the same time the lack of proper understanding of the importance of general welfare. The course of restoration is simple; we represent the right economy and the left well-being, the classic North American concept of a strong welfare system based on sound economic management and prosperous employment. Iceland is supposed to be a good place to be born and live a good life. Thus, the most important role in politics is to create a competitive standard of living in Iceland so that people can see the future here. From the memory of the Council, it is now heard by the criticism that well - being is not being done. The reality is different. We are increasing our contribution to welfare between the years and 30 billion dollars. These increases add more than 20 billion. increase in previous year. Thus, in two years the cost of welfare will have increased by over 50 billion dollars. The emphasis on well - being could not be clearer. What are we doing? We are working on massive measures to solve people's housing problems, including some of them. with increased funding for building on cheap rented stores and partnerships with rurals and developers in ways that reduce construction costs. We're raising payments for parents on maternity vacations. For example, we are legalizing user - controlled personal assistance and big help to work for people with impaired skills. We are also making large contributions to receive refugees who are here looking for a better life. We are now entering the construction of a land hospital, an increased emphasis on mental health, and an additional construction of nursing mothers for older citizens. Most important, we are strengthening the pension rights to 35,000 senior citizens and 18,000 invalids. In such matters, it is equally important to emphasize that everyone is available to be active in society, that each person contributes to the community as he is capable, and accepts it from the community that he needs. This involves a great deal of quality of life. The smaller portion requires additional growth and tax growth in order to finance increased cohesion. These ideas are dangerous already a warning light in the economy. We have been in such a situation before. We have previously enjoyed the fruitage of such a course in the form of high inflation and hair growth. Few things are more important in household expenses than interest and compensation. In fact, low growth and stability are also a matter of well - being for the people of the land. We on restoration would like to make sure that the society we live in for generations is in the highest order in quality of life. This applies not only to a powerful welfare system but also to other factors that strongly affect our daily lives, such as food prices, housing, and interest costs. Madam President. Good citizens of the country. The basis for Iceland's becoming an outstanding society is, in particular, equal opportunities for both those born here and those who move here. Those of us who have moved out here are no less dependent on our prosperity and well - being than we were born here. We are to condemn the political elements that have developed and are now trying to classify people, provoke them, depending on their background and race. Such a message has nothing to do with the best of welfare. Rather, it reveals the prejudices of those who thus speak. Our role, however, is to match the playground, to build a society where everyone will enjoy themselves, regardless of material or ethnic background, where equality can be enjoyed. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u21	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In my speech here tonight, I would like to talk about a lot of things, e.g. Mental health, the affairs of older citizens, or the conditions at a facility, these nine years after collapse. I would like to cover the banks, their profits, and the impossible places if the hedge fund would qualify for an active share. I would also like to talk about the tremendous success of police and rural cooperation in an effort to combat domestic violence that has brought world attention as an outstanding innovation project. It was a work of cooperation between the State and the local community that we should imitate and do much more. But I'm going to keep this important discussion until later in the winter. Good citizens of the country. I'm just going to spend a little time facing the fact that I'm going to make a record of this council. They say I'll be the senator who'll have the shortest career in the Council of At least Half a century. I hope the people respect me for the fact that I leave my heart behind. I'm gonna get to work as an elected agent for the Kopavogians. It replaces a man here at a council like any other. In this context, though, I have to mention that I have a reaction to my decision that I have moved on something. I have had a strong reaction that may need to develop, move closer to the present, or even closer to the source. I find this reaction both in the Generals and in the outside. Last night the President informed in his address that she was planning an open meeting with the people of the country, asking how the Council should function differently, and mentioned that we here must join the people. I agree with that. I have full faith that this conversation will lead to a change in tradition for the better. I intend to share wholeheartedly in that work along with the work that awaits us at the 147th legislature. Good citizens of the country. There will be discussions and discussions about government affairs in the next few days. It is a privilege for me to be given the opportunity to participate in such a conversation. Our schemes in the bright future are to be long - lived. How do we change for the better? How do we offer the best ministry for all who need it without a deep down experience? No mood swings are ever lasting. Therefore, we must look for longer, give responsibilities for financial management, and make room for more difficult times. Talking about responsibility and balance isn't popular politics, I know it, but I think it's sensible, and I follow my convictions because I don't want another crash. I'm not afraid to take a conversation about difficult things, but I pray that we do so honestly and that we try. - I thank those who obeyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-13-2.u22	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. A beautiful summer is slow, and the days are shorter. What a blessing it would be for the public in this country if the present government, its days also began to be shortened, and its end as soon as possible! We have listened to the direction of the prime minister as he looks at the stage from the growing bloom of flowers. Admittedly, it's a good one for some people, not all of them. In his speech, did not the prime minister have a balance and vision? Young people, families, children, and older ones are given a long nose. Poverty and housing problems persist. Will there be any balance in the lives of these people? What vision is involved in reducing the ability of large groups to participate in community activities? I give names to the elderly and to those with less energy. But isn't it a bit deep this year? Isn't it just a typical minority? No, Madam President, I'm sorry. Well, during a unique period of prosperity after a quick year, when justice can be done for those who are in a palace, the priority will be seen. The government is groping because at this time of year, a marvelous journey to support the elderly will end in a five - year period of 100,000 years. free-paying goal. The government should have enough effort and immediately raise this to a minimum. The experience and ability of this group are highly underestimated. We need all the hard work we can do. This government lacks contact with the general public who experience the very nature of social injustice, unfairness and discrimination, the children's families, the units we place all our trust in, the future of Iceland. There, the hold on two governments has gone into action with determinedness and a lack of support for children. A local group now enjoy child support and housing benefits, and growth improvements continue to be greatly improved. How does this conflict with the words of the prime minister in this evening regarding the importance of caring for children and future generations? The root is the policy of the government under the old appeal of the Independence Party. They think it's okay. We do not feel this way in the United States, and we demand that the lot of children be right and that every family of the children will have child benefits, a better behaviour. It doesn't matter where you get laid on welfare matters. Gammers take over the health system, view the ministry as destructive business, which they can truly be in the power of profit. The money is safe, the state pays for each event, and the business group is large. The risk is small. On the other hand, government agencies already on a vast scale do not stand a chance and live under continued financial control. According to the budget bill, there is more than a serious situation in hospitals and clinics, it's falling apart. On the other hand, the private sector floats with sails. Iceland's health insurance pays, that institution goes over the budget repeatedly, it's not a lot of money. Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Someone might ask: " How can such a lack of patience be on such a beautiful afternoon? It's just not chaos, it's a reality of thousands of Icelanders. We alone cannot find pleasure in this crying indiscriminate manner. It's about politics, how it's done. Poverty in Iceland is the result of political decisions. In this regard, the Independence Party is primarily responsible for others. It is possible to turn around and create a society in which no one needs to worry about tomorrow, whether there is food and clothing. However, it takes will and a view other than that of the present government. Good citizens of the country. We are to stand guard and maintain a positive view of a country that wants to rise on its own terms. We are to support the restoration of important agricultural food productions as well as a new work programme in harmony with the environment. Uninformed countries are in tourism. In the infrastructure, large-growing transport in the region is getting heavier, but these are the remainder sizes of the government. Sadly, in so many words, we have seen that little wealth comes from words. It's the government in reverse. So let us consider what the government says is doing, will do, promises to do. Keep track of how your priorities are worked out, how it works, and how it works. It is not the welfare, not the benefit of children, nor the tolerability of those in need, within the country, or outside. Those whose feet are bent are set aside. This is what the United States of Iceland wants to change. That's not what this government does. - Good times.
