ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 6th. Southk, Ari Traria Guðmundsson, says that he will not be able to do any re-election work in the near future. Therefore, it is requested that Daníel E. Arnarsson be seated in the General Assembly today, a 2nd substitute on the left movement list of green initiatives in the district. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and published a letter for Daníel E. Arnarsson. At the same time, the board of directors and monitoring committees have been called to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u2	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A government commission and surveillance committee has gathered to review Daníel E. Arnarsson's campaign from the national government. In agreement with the Commission, they concluded not to make a comment to the ballot letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u4	Borist has a letter from the 6th. South, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and 10th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, that they cannot attend next week. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly for the 2nd Specialist List of the Left Motion's Left Motion, Daníel E. Arnarsson, and the Watchman's List of the Left Motions in the Northern Republic of Reykjavík, Iðunn Garðarsdóttir. Their letters have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u5	Daníel E. Arnarsson and Iðunn Garðarsdóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party of the Left Motive, which shows up to 3rd. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, can't attend next week. Today, therefore, at Council II, a deputy on the left of the movement's left is a green bid in the district of I Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir. 1 strategist on a list has been calling incursion. In the past, Ingibjörg has taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u6	There have been letters received from the Ministry of Education and Culture where they want to ask you to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 408, on sports policy and support for competitive and successful sports, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u7	Since Borist has announced a change in the management of Porta's party, Einar Brynjólfsson is chairman, Birgitta Jónsdóttir is vice president, and a Smári Mccarthy is a secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u8	A respectable president. Earlier today, it happened at a meeting of constant committees that the Porta representatives seem to have missed a meeting at the time. 10. The occasion became fairly clear later, evidently being the leadership of Porta's Congress party. I'd like to direct it to the highest. The president that he reiterates with members of Congress that members of the council perform their duties in such a way that they do not interfere with the work of the constant committees and show respect for the fasting committees so that the representatives who serve there can perform the democratic role they are assigned to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u9	There are some answers: financial and economic ministers, health ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u10	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of health about two things. Government contracts speak of special efforts to shorten the waiting period for medical services. In fact, the last government undertook an effort to shorten a waiting list, and it began in the autumn that success was being accomplished; waiting for orthopaedic surgery, as well as waiting for eye surgery and heart surgery. This is stated by the director of the Land Hospital of ◯ University Hospital. This success was not least achieved within the national hospital but also in other hospitals operating in the country. The simplest way to shorten the waiting lists is to support hospitals that can attack the long wait list. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on two matters, whether he thinks, or whether he agrees with me, that this is the simplest way to achieve the goal of shortening a waiting list to support the Akureyri Hospital, the Hospital Hospital, and the quarter hospital where financial support can be undertaken. And I need the highest. I can assure the health minister that there is the support in this chamber and in the whole nation, since the list of waitings is, of course, terrible for the people who have to wait a long time for an action that they desperately need. The other is that for some reason the discussion of a waiting list has taken up the discussion that the problems of those who will be solved will be solved only with the access of a private person, which may keep the attention away from the fact that most of the funds are needed to shorten the waiting lists. The discussion of business plans was launched on a discussions program on the state TV yesterday, and a minister there said that he felt that the management of specialized hospitals had to be established and referred to there as being a lack of agreement between surgeon and health care departments. When I read the law, it is actually said that besides a minister's decision, special health care is not to be fired, which seems to be quite clear to me. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What exactly must be changed? What is the highest authority. Minister that he needs what he doesn't already have? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u11	President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. So the first part of the inquiry, about the waiting list, is to answer that I think we should what. In many ways, a senator agrees. Basically, waiting lists are being processed by means of capital, and when we're talking about a waiting list, we're primarily talking about waiting for action, which, as it is called, a selective action, i.e. actions that are not urgent, but those that people are awaiting, such as joint replacement surgery, eye surgery, etc. These are measures in which the flow or management of hospitals sometimes suffer if the pressure for general service, emergency services, etc. is high. The work of shortening a waiting list began over a year ago by Generalis, where the General Assembly was responsible for setting up an additional amount of money of 840 million. K. 3 years in a row, especially to work on the list. We are now in the second year of action, and I can answer that to the point of working well on that waiting list, but the exact number or position on that, unfortunately, I do not have here on rhythms to answer for today. Of course, much of working on the lists is the support, or strength, of the institutions involved. This year we are especially looking at the New World Health Organization, Akureyri Hospital, and the Hospital. We will also look for opportunities to make use of the situation and even human life in other medical institutions, with the support of the Land Hospital, if necessary. I've got to make a better impression on the inquiry in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u12	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. The minister here explains that he agrees that the most important factor in shortening a waiting list is the question of capitalism and that he approves of the methodology we have had to strengthen three hospitals at the highest level. The minister mentioned that this methodology has been successful, i.e. to strengthen the official system to shorten the waiting list, shortening the waiting period for action. It is worth considering that this discussion has recently been focused on the management plans, the introduction of a private person to the shortcut of a waiting list. This has been true here at the Assembly Hall, but it has also been done in public discussions elsewhere. The highest reaction. Ministers have been saying that health care laws need to be reviewed. I want to reiterate the questions I asked earlier: Minister that he does not have the authority to set clear frames for specific hospital services? [[The president calls.]] To what precise degree does he feel the need to alter the health - care laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u13	Madam President. I want to make it clear that we are. A senator agrees that funding is a key factor in working on the waiting lists in the waiting list program now that I have decided to hide these institutions, but also to companies responsible for eye operations, which are privateised companies responsible for eye operations in the general health system, they are also taking part of this waiting effort as it was last year. That's why I think it's not clear enough, i.e. The requirement for a specialised hospital service, the definition of what is a hospital in excess of what is a specialised hospital service. That's what we need to explain. I've started work at the Ministry to see if there's any law to rethink this. [[The president calls.]] However, it is in itself not only linked to the list of waitings but generally in the way we have the facilities for hospital service in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u14	Madam President. My request today to the highest degree. Minister of Justice faces the appointment of judges in the new court order. May 12th. appears in the core of the list of individuals thought to be most qualified by the Committee on the Qualification of Judges, five women and ten men. Now I wake up to a bad dream, for it seems that we were having an concern when these issues were being treated in a discussion of laws that would enable a panel to evaluate the qualifications of candidates for status in the National Rights of Equal Opportunities. This evil dream led to our being in the memory of the General and Education Committee to suggest the adjustment proposed by the Commission to have the equality laws in light of application assessments. So much was rejected from the greater part, for he felt the next sure that this would be kept in mind at the order. I am somewhat concerned that in view of statements at the highest rate, only one third of the judges in the new court are women. Minister of Justice, mentioned in 1st. On a court order that caused the jury to accept this, by permission of the president: ▪ I am not a spokesman for binding it into law not to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. I have full faith that women and men alike meet all the appropriate conditions that would be appropriate to lay the basis for the appointment of judges. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: How will she react to this situation, that an espionage committee has considered it to be that only five women, and ten men, are acting as judges in the new level of judgment? How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers respond to this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u15	A respectable president. I don't think it's time to talk to a judge's court order at this point. This refers to news on the Web site, news I don't know about but saw that there was a list there. I haven't compared him with the data I've been given at this stage for information from the Commission of Education. The point is that a committee commissioned to evaluate the qualifications of candidates has been completed, sending a statement to all candidates for their positions. That's why there's still a story for candidates. No final product produced by the Committee is yet available in the form of information or opinion. I'm expecting to get that opinion possibly by the end of this week or at the beginning of the next. I don't think it's time to discuss this position any further. However, I hope to argue that the selection committee, such as the other committee, had in mind the laws in force and followed the procedure set for it, i.e. evaluating candidates, evaluating candidates' qualifications. I'm expecting her to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u16	Madam President. I find this to be a strange statement from the highest level. Minister of Justice claiming that this is the list and is the choice of this committee. At the same time, there is an update from the Ministry. Minister of Justice, i.e. The Justice Department, which presents information that the Commission has not completed its work, i.e. has yet to submit a review of the case, but it is not specifically denied that these are the chosen ones. That's why I don't know exactly what to do. Minister is mean by this. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again: If this is really the art that seems to be now, the minister will use 12. The law of the courts, which gives Ministers permission to order other members who meet the criteria set out in Article 21. Justice Act, i.e. To present new names to ensure equal sex ratios in our new court?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u17	A respectable president. Of course, I can't be responsible for some kind of news transfer or media coverage. It is true what was said in the case of the two. The senator, the Ministry made comments on this coverage. Now I don't know if this medium chose to change or hold onto it, but just publish the Ministry's comments. There is no point in the fact that the Ministry is referring specifically to some list that has not yet existed. As I described earlier, this case is a review of all applicants, and I believe that perhaps now it is a matter of peace and freedom to give such comments if any, and then the committee is to discuss these statements and to take a controversial stand. The committee will then determine who might be the most qualified person or who is as qualified as on the streets. Others may have other opinions on the conclusion, but I believe it is proper for the committee to complete their duties before the case ends with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u18	Madam President. Let's get to the top. Secretary of the sea offers me a ride with his minister's car to an important meeting east of the country. As I was standing on the sidewalk waiting for it, two quiet men were drawn to the car, one moaning in the back, and the other holes in the gas tank. I'll take a ride with that car, top dog. Minister, would I chance the gas would work on some tiny tyres, or did I get myself another east? During the campaign, the Reconnaissance thoroughly spoke for the marketing of fishing, and the Treaty speaks of the benefits of studying the benefits of untimely distributions based on long-term contracts, and that at the same time there will be an assessment of the options, such as marketing connections, special payments, or other means. The minister has now appointed a committee with the representatives of all classes that are to be met for release. The project is important, but it is reversed, and it is necessary for all to arrive safely at that work. Before the weekend, Moggin heard the sounds of the Independence Party council. One said, with permission: ▪ It's not stressful, because the committee offers suggestions for basic changes, and they will simply be stopped at the council. It's not complicated. Other: ▪ We do not let a good system be ruined, although we are certainly open to some change, such as the rules of exposition and fishing. Even though falling is a good thing, these promises are not particularly good. Since I'm on the committee, I'd like to ask the highest level. Minister: Is the minister convinced that all members of Congress are doing well for this work? Is the chairman of the Convention agreed that it would be uncomfortable and less confident in the work of the Committee that the members of the Independence Party are large in the media before the first meeting of the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u19	Madam President. Hv. A senator would point to me a difficult question: Would he take the chance of riding a damaged car or not? Now I have to admit, I don't know the risk factor why. A senator well enough to answer this question, but I'm not sure that the car would drive very long if the tires had been pierced. I saw this happen, for example. the other day at a bug walk, where there was a car ahead of us, and there was apparently a flat tire. There was an ex-concommunicator on the move and at least drove. a mile and a half on this flat tire, so maybe he'd take that chance. Everybody okay? Yes, I'm sure everyone's going straight to this job. I'm convinced of that. Then you ask me why. A senator whether I feel uncomfortable talking against the committee's work before it begins. I would feel more uncomfortable if people spoke against the work of the Committee after it began.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u20	Madam President. This was interesting, so the car does not drive far on its cover, and the committee has not started work. I think it's strange that I'm at the highest. Ministers don't feel comfortable with the government groups speaking out and south. This is one of the reasons why I am bickering about this work - the dissension of the administrative home. They do not seem to formalize and flirt with one hand against another, as is said of this committee, but they tend to take place in blogs on pages of the newspapers, on television, and on radio. The leaders of the political parties talk out and south about the currency owner, as upset as the minister of state says that European affairs are no longer on the program of Icelandic politics. Is that not a check on the current situation and delay? Or is it perhaps the purpose of turning the matter into this process to get out of the way of the election itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u21	Madam President. There are three groups that are in the government and they don't agree on all matters. It's known, and it was known before elections, and that's how they came to the table. The situation was so that other governments could not be formed and governments form a government on a particular subject, e.g. trying to make this matter a matter of reconciliation. I don't think there are a lot of people who imagine that the current fishing system, with the current currency, is likely to be able to endure permanently. I have to say right now that I believe that all the packs, including a series of them. Senator, let's take a walk on this thing with a firmness. Of course, it is not the same unit within the board of directors that is within the opposition, where all are moving in rhythm.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u22	A respectable president. The money fund for Och-Ziff is one of the investors who bought at Arion Bank. Och-Ziff is registered for 6.6% share in Arion Bank. Last September, Och-Och-Ziff paid about 47 billion dollars. a fine after the U.S. stock stock market shed light on the payoffs of the subsidiary to high officials in Africa. This is one of the highest fines paid by a hedge fund paid for bribes in the United States. In addition, the creditile company Standard & Poor's has dropped Och-Ziff's credit score by category and has entered a so-called trash class. According to a specialist in S&P, the prospects for the fund are negative, the business is getting worse, and it is unlikely that the company can live up to its investments. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Budget and Economic Minister: Does he still think it's good that the hedge fund Och-Ziff is invested in a systematicly important bank in Iceland in the light of these bribes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u23	A respectable president. To answer, I have often had words that make it very important to each of the banks, to each other's financial businesses, and to make good use of reputations in this area. We in Iceland are burned in that we went through a discussion the other day where it was found that a number of people had been deceived. The F.O. had been deceived, we have received a State Accounting survey, which revealed that one of the bank's holdings and that it was just wrong in spite of repeated suggestions about another. Do I think it's good that there are a lot of garbage owners? No, of course I think it would be best for us to be as much of the owners as the people in general could have considerable confidence. What I said when this purchase was announced was that it's a pleasure to hear that the hedge fund is taking the bet with Iceland, not against Iceland, as it was before a crash. That's what I'm saying, but I've got it directed to the F.A.P. like it. A senator knows to inform more about the buyers of these things. The answer that first came was imperfect. Based on the information available then, the UN could not give a thorough answer. I know that some of the buyers have put in more detailed advice to the UN, and afterward I expect it to report and assess the rights of the individual buyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Economic and financial secretary for the answer, but it's just not enough. He even seems to have forgotten it, though he had reviewed it in the Senate, that he actually gave a health certificate for those purchases the next day. That's what I'm too unhappy about not having enough information, but still it was the highest. Iceland's financial and economic ministers are ready to say that it's a good thing that the hedge fund was betting in Iceland, but he didn't have this information. In my opinion, it's irresponsible and reckless, and I'd like to ask him the rest of his life if he just doesn't regret the comment. In fact, there is a deception when the State's secretary of finance and economics is ready to appear and give urgent proof of health care, such as this, even though they do not have enough information. I'm asking the highest. Financial and economic secretary: Was that not irresponsible? Wasn't that foolish?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u25	Madam President. I repeat, I keep my word that it is better that as many people bet on Iceland than on the contrary. I don't have to retract in that stuff. I also object, of course, I haven't given any medical proof, but I'm glad I'm doing it. A senator appreciates my words so much that when I say that something is positive, it is also a proof of health in everything the person does. Not at all. I choose my words there with zeal, and that is the role of a particular party, now it's the SEC, to appreciate the properness of these parties to have an active possession. I have been led by those who want to know who is behind it, and I will continue my struggle to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u26	President. Peter Hajek is a professor of clinical psychology and director of health and lifestyle studies at Wolfson Institute in Britain. His studies are mainly focused on understanding health matters and assessing both the behaviour and the treatment of weight - related tobacco users. He has helped with the establishment of a special service in Britain that offers tobacco users help to stop tobacco, including tobacco. training by staff and the use of NICE regulations. John Britton, professor of epidemiology, director of tobacco and alcohol research at the institution of medicine and health care. Clive Bates is head of the Councilfactual Consulting Ltd. Linda Bauld is a professor of health policy, director of community services and department director of research at Sterling University in Britain. It is also the vice president of a tobacco and alcohol research agency in Britain. Since August 2014 it has also been the head of an oncology study in Britain, which includes involvement in CUK, the world's largest independent charity for cancer, which has led to its cancer prevention. Linda is a PhD behaviorologist in sociology policy. Its research focuses mainly on two factors: evaluation of complex Healthcare Professional intervention and the use of data as a basis for health decision-making. She has done research in alcohol and drug abuse, health problems, and particularly prevention of tobacco use. Those four people were in a panel yesterday at a seminar on revolution in the tobacco defenses associated with electric cigarettes. No one came from the Ministry of Health, and the minister did not appreciate his time to attend this conference. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he will work hard to get the information presented at this conference because they are very necessary in the processing of the electronic bill here at the Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u27	Madam President. No, no, no. A senator is right, a minister could not see fit to attend the conference he knew of. I suppose I'll have more news about what was going on there. When it comes to using electronic cigarettes, electric cigarettes, or what we would like to call this new technology, the CDC's conclusions on the law and discussion of the countries around us that we would like to make and love to do. It is a new nicotine - based technology, which is not a harmless drug on its own, but it has known negative consequences about heart disease and other factors. Here we will discuss the environment of this use and the use of nicotine, which so far has not been held around in Icelandic law. This bill, in fact, is the first time for the formal use of nicotinic liquid in electric teats. I think it's important for those who want to use this method to stop smoking. However, the bill has restrictions on the environment of the electricians to ensure consumer security, to ensure markings, to ensure that the right strength is on the product, to be registered in the consumer clinic, and to limit access of children and adolescents to technology that can make nicotine addiction easier and worse, which on its own is not positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u28	President. If the minister had been able to attend this conference, he could have listened to the fact that already research has been made, and none of them support what the minister said here that it is possible if someone uses steamed nicotine, it will lead to nicotine addiction. Those who already have nicotine addicts through tobacco are those who continue to be addicts. New Zealand and Canada have already begun to reconsider these legislation. Almost we had introduced very bad laws involving data storage that we were able to postpone because it was a matter of great doubt that human rights were being guaranteed. The European Court of Human Rights judged these laws as being too extensive. I ask a minister: Is it not reason to wait for further research and consult with the most skilled experts in this field rather than to take one-sided information from one party?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u29	A respectable president. It is clear, then, that a minister cannot be at all at once. Sadly, very many invitations are received at conferences, meetings, all kinds of meetings, and events that I am afraid to be present at all. [[... someone from the Ministry...]] I don't want to agree that the World Health Organization is one person in the city. On the contrary, it is one of the most dignified, strongest, and most international institutions in health matters we know and apply. In addition, we were looking for experience and results from health authorities in the countries around us, including those in the North, which are the countries that we aim for. I consider as the minister of public health to be obliged to monitor public health and react. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] That's why and in that light, I put this bill before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u30	Madam President. We're here to discuss the sale of the state's Vifil State Country and have now been sold to the Garden Town. It is true that there has been some financial legal rights to sell the state's property in Gard Town, but this has not been taken care of until the current financial secretary introduced the plans just before Easter. The secretary of finance answered that question when asked about the prices of the country, with the permission of a president: It is likely that if land is sold too high, it will appear in high heat prices. I've declared that the state should not be in heat... The government is making a deal with a town society, and we thought it might be better than making a deal with a lawn corrosion. This is a matter of making comments. The minister of finance would do well to point out that he is the head of public interest, not just of the people living in Garden Town. A homeland in the capital area is a resource. He must therefore have a fair market price for what he sells on behalf of the owner of the Icelandic nation. Marketing is something that, though, has been the minister of thought. On the one hand, on earth it shows that the Netherlands is a very valuable construction site and the basic value of the country under market prices in certain cases. This creates an opportunity for an increase in the planning and sale of the building rights. Does a minister have any guarantee of selling a building rights that no highest bid will be taken with the price of building property? No, of course the Minister has no guarantee. I'm gonna allow me to claim that selling on property in one of the best and most beautiful places in the capital area will when it comes to submitting to the laws of the market. If a minister has read the prices of the contract, it will directly be presented by the President's permission. It is assumed that the building rights for apartments and employment places will be sold on the market. So it's a lot of nonsense that a minister's mind is standing to prevent too much weight. He has nothing to say about it. To further reassign this, a contract is presented as being signed by the secretary of the Presidency, by permission of the president: A trader should be sold or assigned in an open, transparent way to the highest bidder's agreement. You must ask if a minister has read the agreement he made with Gardour, or he simply doesn't understand what it involves, because making a deal with the highest bidder will, of course, raise an apartment prices across what a minister wants. It is pointed out, then, that there has been a long discussion that the Netherlands Land might be suitable for a new hospital. Because of the reading of the treaty with Gard Town, there is no ruffle that a minister is to leave someone right on behalf of the people in that regard. In other words, it is up to Garville to determine whether such projects will be attacked. Will a minister, then, part of the government's purchase of a new hospital? This was arranged at a meeting at the General Meeting where the question is answered. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for the measures of state trails in the capital area. It says, by permission of the President, in response to the Ministry of Ministers: ▪ The public policy of the State's administration of land or other government property is to advertise all such assets in a public way and to accept the most favorable offer of purchases, as it is deemed acceptable. - They didn't do that in the case of a Vifil position. It has been said that the price of such things must be based on an objective effort to seek the market or to prove that such assets are to be used. - They didn't do that in the case of a Vifil position. The expenditure, also stated by the owner of state property, has not been allowed to sell property or land or other property without advertising and under the normal market or their worth, even if rural areas are involved. - It seems to have been, however, in the case of Hellenistic position. What about the price of the land? In 2001, 16 years ago, the engineering lab, for the proposed hospital construction, made counselling prices at the Vifilus. The land was estimated to be some 1,937,3,4 billion. If we update it with a structural index, there will be a price in the range of 4.5-8.6 billion. Why wasn't that assessment taken at the prenup? Madam President. In fact, reading what was observed by the minister in the formation of a new government is heartbreaking. I'm going to let me quote these words of his: I think it's good for Iceland up to us making new plans. Let's get a little lightweight work done, Madam President. For transparency to be more than mere words, the matter must be discussed here at the General Assembly. I say for my part, was there a problem with selling Vifil's land before it was attacked? It's a work assignment of the highest degree. A minister cannot help but say that he did not trust in it. In this context, I would like to point out that the prices of the Vifil land are dated on November 23, 2016, or five months ago. So we've had time for ourselves. Madam President. I don't know how the new strategy works, but transparency doesn't come to mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u31	Madam President. Here is the conference held in the state's country at Vifils. The Kingdom has land and other possessions in many lands. 40. g. The Constitution states that the State must give up property in its rights only under legal authority which is usually stated in each year's budget. About the Vifil Standards region, more than 200 acres [200 ha], beginning in 2003 on the basis of the International Assembly to sell the earth. Actually, a major part of the country, 812 acres [812 ha], which is four times that currently sold, was sold in 1997 at a price equivalent to 350 million. K. on current prices, i.e. about 60% of basic prices in sales now. In the contract signed by the Friðrik son of Sophusson, the secretary of finance and Ingibjörg Pálmadóttir, the health minister, and the captain's party sisters, there were no compensations. On the other hand, the agreement discussed here will bring the country several billion profit when a new organization has been approved in addition to 560 billion. K. which is based on basic value. For years, park town has requested to buy the rest of the country for building up the local community. Meetings occurred, including In 2012, while members met in 2016, they decided to appoint two eaters, one from each side. They returned an estimate on November 23rd. and was submitted to the basic price of the contract. The estimate shows that a part of the country is at peace, a part is under golf course, and still other parts are thought of as a cemetery and a roadside. Thus, the value of the individual parts of the region is very variable. In general, discussions with rural areas within the country have been made when such objective reasons exist and the price of the land is objectively determined as this one did. The economy is with the rurals. The government wants to increase land supply in the capital area and is now in a conversation with both Kópavog and Reykjavík about the possible sale of the country of the State for this purpose. The main explanation of high and rising housing prices in the capital area is lack of housing. Key elements are the use of objective measures to determine the price. The basic price, 560 million. K., was determined by the current organization, but a profit exchange is required to determine how the income of a changed organization was divided between the state and the town of Garden. There, the state receives 60% of the sales of the property, while Garden Town is 40%. An announcement of an agreement was published on the Ministry's 6th April 2017 Web, and two weeks later, contracts were signed. Hv. A senator links the sale with the construction of a new hospital. Thus, the Council decided to build a new Hospital on Ring Road, and the present government has set up a time - appointed program to complete a building in 2023. I know there's a gang down there. A senator has had many other opinions on the matter and wants to kill a decision about it. There is no formal analysis on the practicality of the Vifil situation country as a future hospital site. A key point is that any who owns the land must be localised for a future hospital. There's no prior notice of any possible construction of a new hospital in the contract. In contrast, the mayor of the town of Garville has declared that he is not opposed to the agreement of such a building. I believe the most important thing to do is complete a new hospital on Ring Road, and I'm sure there will be a future land hospital. In addition to legal rights for sale, as mentioned earlier, there are special requirements for selling on earth at 35 different levels. A bulldozer. It reads, with President's permission: It is advisable to sell state or part of the rural areas in which they live, as well as to institutions and their companies. So there is no question about the legitimate value of sales. A respectable president. The sales of the Vifil State were professional, serving the interests of the state, the park town, and the general public. The Kingdom receives a fair price for the land according to its present organization. If so, as planned, the Kingdom will become a prominent part of its sales. With improved construction supplies, it is likely that the availability and demand of new housing will be reduced, which is exactly an important subject for young people and other shopkeepers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u32	Madam President. There's a lot of criticism about this minister's design. We were in a hurry. What was the rush? Why was this not the case with the General? I'm going to start by discussing the shortsightedness of this. In the late 2014 season, the property of the Hospital at Premiums was one - sided and unconcerned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This was strongly objected on the part of a land hospital, with almost one area in the center of the capital area that could be taken into the next hospital. It is true that although it is now necessary to build up on a circuit that is very necessary, in 20 to 30 years it will still be necessary to consider a new place for a new hospital. Despite this situation, the country is now given a town of garden to its organization and buildings without any notice in a preliminaries. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of health minister had this to say. He's not here to answer. But it's the highest. Health Ministers agree that this is how the Netherlands, the center for future health care in the country, is arranged? Was he in on it? The case was discussed in the government? These questions must be answered, Madam President. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to agree with it as a dog. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson here said about the price of sale and the huge discount calculated. V.E.G. A minister has said that he is working with the local community to increase the supply of housing and to keep apartment prices below. He has said in an answer quoted above that it must be taken care to avoid selling such possessions to the rural communities by selling such property on guard. So I ask: Do I expect the city of Reykjavík to buy the country of Koldnaholt, the country of Keldnaholm, and the country of Camerfells at the same cost? If this is a professional sale, then the answer must be yes. [[The president calls.]] If not, I claim that these actions are not designed to increase confidence in the government of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u33	A respectable president. It is with great joy that I share in this discussion about the sale of Vifilos, both as citizens of Iceland and Garville. There are a number of methods of selling and determining prices. One is an offer, to sell at some so - called highest price, one is to establish objective standards by contracts. In this case, party to treat parties to assign parties to carry out objective assessments of the opposition, the sold Vifilland, which is now not quite a country. It's over a snowline, even a building line, and like the highest. In part, a minister of moisture is at peace, partially bound under a golf course, and most important, the site there is expected to be established. There may be a building hospital, such as in this site. But as far as I'm concerned, the government has made similar agreements with another community, Reykjavík, as far as possible, about the exchange of money in a construction land. In fact, top priority is that rural society can have custody of the land on which they depend. I believe there are many exemplary relationships between the state and the country in this process. Perhaps I'll come to my second speech what I consider to be an example there. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u34	A respectable president. The Ministry of Economics met with the branch committee the other day and answered the questions about the sale of the Vifil position on the country. There were some interesting developments. But let's put the matter in a little context. There's a public place in the park, everybody in Iceland owns a share in this country. So when the land is sold, it is important to check whether it has been handled well with the public and the public. To say this in a clear way: When weights are sold, when they are built, or whether it is decided to use the land, there is no guarantee that the harvest of the sale will not fall into the pockets of the brain or other middlemen. Another such thing has happened here in Iceland, so there is good reason to ask if cheating can happen. The way it works is that the state receives 560 million. K. Over the next eight years with some strange growths, it would be interesting to get a closer analysis of it at the highest level. Secretary of finance, and then 60% of the value of the property when Garden City sells them next, within the next 40 years. When I look at this, I look for holes. How can things be handled so that the State will be taken away from the market value? Will the park be able to sell the property at expense with regard to the cost of road and sewer construction, with the objective of providing a lower price for housing? That might be a good deal. But if so, do the owners have nothing to say about the matter? Is it safe for those who accept the property and then continue to sell it to continue with this lower price that was due to result? No. The situation today is that Garðar is now responsible for the sale of the property. This may be normal because the park community has been organized in this area, but the general public is still benefiting from the development of the situation, so it is very important to observe how this contract will be handled in the future. There are some points to consider on this subject, which I then come to in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u35	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating this sale. I find it urgent and collective to cross the whole area here in the capital area, especially in the light of regional growth boundaries, and to find potential and impossible bald spots in organization and organize apartments. I view improving the housing market as a shared task of the State and rural society. I think methodology is number one of the sales listed here, and it has been reviewed, whether it was legitimate; number two of possible weights under the land hospital, which have not been excluded; and then number three, it's worth the sale, and whether or not they've been bought under price. I'd like to go over it briefly because I've shown an interest in what this construction site is for sale. I understand it's about 40 to 750 acres [40,650 ha] of land. In the compound, this could be one 900 apartment, i.e. apartments and apartments. It's like one good Lindatown in Kópavogi or one high school district. One school costs about 3.5 billion. Except for all the infrastructure and infrastructure that we now have to put in, I feel that we need to take on prices on this earth. But I'll find that out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u36	Madam President. When government management is limited, a high requirement must be made for responsibility, fairness, and social interests to guide them. Sadly, governments have often been lying on their necks in this country to have been misinformed, to make decisions that have been unconcerned, to a low level of reasoning, and to complain of cousinism and gang thoughts, even to the point of making such decisions perplexing. Without any of these claims for reasons, it was obvious that it was quite surprising and that it was not very well supported. That's a very favorable price for Gard Town. The country was once under the oversight of the Land Hospital, but in 2014 the Ministry of Economics took over the property. Páll the Matthíasson of Matthua, president of the Land Hospital, has severely criticized the decision that the Ministry carried one - sided and without discussion over the country from the hospital. On behalf of the Land Hospital, he insisted that the decision be restored and policy would be initiated in the long future for the use of the land for health care. Naturally, then, questions arise about whether the sale will show sufficient vision or will allow it to reinvent governments. The park is now planning to compete for organization in the area where 1,200,1500 apartments are expected. If this corruption of a minister is a means of paying for an apartment building in the capital area, it is not impossible to ask him: Tells you the highest. Minister to salaanity and to set a precedent for other lands? Is a minister willing to sell empty property in Reykjavík under an apartment area, as has many times been requested, thus relieving pressure from the hydromyelination structure while finding a successful solution for domestic flights? Or will he, like his predecessor in work, refuse to assist Reykjavíkurburg in the massive building work there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u37	A respectable president. Thank you for your discussion and thank the Minister for the answers. I think we're all here at the Senate Hall agree on the importance of handling the housing problem. I agree with the Minister that one of the key factors in the housing problem we are dealing with is a loss of weight. The policy that has been in the entire capital area to build has led to a failure to achieve an offer on property in the capital area. Since the collapse of 2008, we would have had to build 1,400 apartments a year, but we have been building below 700 apartments. True, it has done quite well and has been the one who has been building and, on the other hand, in the name of the city of Reykjavík. But I think it's important to keep in mind that market prices are not just something that we make, but they must reflect the offer we offer on that product. If we add an offer to the property, we must, at the same time, influence the price to decrease. I strongly encourage the secretary, if he is planning, as it is in his response to my inquiry for the measures of government in the capital area, to negotiate on more property with the rural communities here in the capital area, to try to do so in a way that the offer will increase, that there will be more who have the potential to obtain housing, that individuals, not just firms, not just major contractors, have the potential to build themselves, and that it is also to support the development of social housing through the general apartment. This is all we have to work together to do, and I strongly encourage the minister to start giving some suggestions on the premises, for they are certainly waiting for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u38	Madam President. It is clear that the organizational authority within each community is the custody of that community itself, and it is not a reason to intervene or to impair in this case rather than in others. Therefore, it would not be right to prevent park's plans for dense development and to increase growth in property production. Regarding the legality of sales went to the highest level. The secretary of finance is well aware that sources for sale are unambiguous, and there is no need to sidetrack many words. As the international community knows, construction of a new land hospital on the Ring Road is scheduled for a 1st stage to be started there in 2023. So it is quite long to set aside and place land under another new hospital that will probably not begin until decades have passed. Until then, potential things will happen in the settlements and planning of the capital area, so it is a relatively long way to decide that this is the only place on which to build, or that it is the only place to be built. Then it can be noted that rural areas are obliged to build monuments intended for health care, which are legalized, but in my opinion the hall of this country is not a cause for great controversy or large declarations, but I believe it perfectly normal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u39	A respectable president. I agree with the primer, what? paritaprevir He Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, that much is unclear here regarding the government's sale on Earth. Certainly, there are many questions, especially about the value of the sale, 560 million. A k, to be paid out in the next eight years with 100 million. K. ... whensigned. That means that the park city for this precious earth is a total of 57.5 billion. K. each year for the next eight years. It's a price, Madam President, and it must be one of the highest-priored contracts. The current financial minister has made his brief career in the Ministry of finance on behalf of all of us government funds. But most likely, this is one of the best contracts ever made by the former chairman of the Garden Town Organization Committee and the current prime minister in his hometown, for the current prime minister decided to run the earth, from the Land Hospital, under the State in 2014 as has been traced here. It is also surprising that questions about why the council sales were not discussed in any way. Rather, they were taken away on their final winter day in quiet silence without any information. It is a good and beautiful promise that the presidents of the Garden Town have found about building the area, the people for which they live, but is this building for young people and the income most rewarding? It is the community group that is in the most urgent and urgent need of adequate housing, as everyone knows. Madam President. I allow me to doubt that the State has helped with this contract with an urgent and urgent need for adequate housing for this community group. No, Madam President, the market is to be chosen, a park town is to make more money to discuss one of the richest rural society in the country, but young people and the consumers are at risk of losing and no visible guarantee that this group is a guarantee of solutions to their problems. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid there's an accompaniment here that isn't what the present government put up with what I've read and studied.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u40	A respectable president. After listening to a discussion in this matter, I no longer understand what is up and what is down. There's a deal here, and it's said to be omnipotent when it's there. You can read exactly what it says. In addition, there will be a price exchange, if you can call it a profit exchange when you sell constructionors, so this country is exactly sold in an open, transparent manner. [[Up front.]] I hope and trust that this will be the inhabitants of the southwestern country, even for the better of the country in the long run, that it will be inhabited by 1,500 apartments, even more, in this excellent area of outdoors and near nature. It's a question of legitimateness. This is in full accordance with what has happened in the sale of government property for years and decades with financial rights. This document has been reimbursed in budgets, and it is assumed to establish areas, as I noted earlier. I believe that this agreement could be an example and an example for other deals, and I think that the state has two houses in Hafnarfjörður, St. Joseph's Hospital, which I believe is essential for the government to sell Hafnarfjörður farm on the first occasion and on good terms because this is a building that is out - of - date to be intended for it. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up to the richest community.]] The richest community, it doesn't matter about this, it's about that we're putting ourselves into public use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u41	A respectable president. Funds speak of manure in the town of Garða. There aren't any other land frames to be talked about but Vifil Places, there are no other parks around which it's all about, it's just Viles Places. So it is very strange to see this sentence in the budget, i.e. permission to sell land in Garðatown. There should have been a special Vifil position in the country then. I'm wondering if this is an honest presentation. This law, a license for sale, is expected to apply if not sold to a rural society. Minister to another law on selling rural society. It is then a matter of question whether societies should be better paid for the land of the State. I wondered if any law will home the Commission to invite rural communities to a better purchase and market than companies and individuals. One thing that came up at a meeting of legal committees the other day was the income of rent property, the rent income of the property involved. Among other things, there are tenures from the golf course that flow into the doctors' staff fund or something like that, so it would be very interesting to hear more about whether public funds are normally handled there. It was asked at a meeting of the budget committee if there were any precedents for this sort of sale. I didn't have a lot of answers. It would be good to have more accurate interpretation of whether or not this information has been dug out. We asked for a note about it, but we haven't yet received it. All of this may go well, but ignoring the story would be foolish for all who make good decisions. This matter must be followed closely so that the interests of the public are guaranteed by the sale rather than by special interests. Our task is to protect everyone's interests. This is clearly a matter to be observed in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u42	Madam President. In addition to questions about the government's sale of the Gardentown State for price prices and why it wasn't based on market prices, about the exchange of income if Garland sells property, and if the exchange is the strength to Garðartown, and why it needs to be strengthened by a community in particular, and more questions that have been raised here during this discussion, questions also need to be discussed about 6. The financial and economic resources granted by its approval. Many sources are provided by Article 6. financing; on post-imbursement, sale of property items of housing, property and land, on purchase and sale of stocks, on sale and on property, and, finally, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand. On the sale of the Vifil Parkland, by permission of the President, it stands to sell land on the property of the State of Gardavour. The state has one piece of land in Garða, that's Vifils Parkland. But this is not mentioned in the article adopted by the General Assembly. In the past, financial committees have criticized that the European Commission has so much authority to handle public property. For example, in accordance with the 2011 legal committee's opinion on the 2009 State Review Report, by permission of the President: It's the opinion of the legal committee to page 6. sources of money have been too bedridden, and it should be tighter to define what is involved. It is of utmost importance that financial guardianship should be clear, and the structured rule of this arrangement may be discussed in terms of financial matters that can be of great importance to the survival of a government fund. This too has been handled by lawyers. For example, Jón Steinar Gunnlaugsson, the Supreme Court attorney, has discussed sales in the Netherlands and has reasoned that financial legislation is not sufficient to sell state property. In this opinion and in order to increase the transparency required by the public financial law, it is urgent to revise the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of government's property. It is an occasion for this discussion here, for the matter is undistracted and unreceptive, and it surprises everyone how much the contract is in favor of the buyer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u43	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I cut it at the highest. A minister in his opinion is the new strategy, not to talk about things at the council, and to negotiate behind the tents, and then to counter the criticism that such a contract is given during the council. It is also obvious that what is said in response to the minister and the Ministry of Ministers on how to sell such a country is all paralyzed in this particular sale. Which is now, the highest. Ministers, what Ministers and Ministry writes in written answers to members of Congress or what men do? For the change of benefits. Does this mean that the State is in heat? And 60%, minus all the costs, how was it found? Doesn't the nation, the State, own the land now? Would it not have been closer to 80 or 90%? Why 60? It's good to work with locals. Why start at Garville? Don't they have enough land? The government sold much of its land from the Garden Church of 1992, 400 acres [400 ha], over 50 million. Certainly, it is even lower price than the current minister gives. And it's starting to take advantage of that country. Will the country be being used for building one, two, three? I don't think so. I think we should start using the land that was bought in 1992 and 1999. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason: There is an objective evaluation now. What about the 2001 VSO food that was eight to sixteen times higher than that food? It was objective, wasn't it? Why was that not a matter of principle? The fact is: The Earth was owned by the Garden Church, given by the Church in part, likely to create a collection campaign for the entire country where the Icelanders were involved in financing money, collected money from Western Iceland, and October yellow as a gift for the nation to build a medical facility there. Is that how you treat presents? [[Foreground on: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u44	A respectable president. It has to be said that this discussion is surprising, that such a blameless and experienced senator has gone so far out of his way. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, who has talked in exchange that this is all too high a price and too low a price. Of course, it's the advance party policy, either or, you can't decide anything, you can't decide where the hospital should be. It should always be postponed, it should be postponed. This is the policy of the advance party, but now that it has been authorized to sell this card for 16 years, he is so surprised that it was sold. That was even. adopted with the vote of the dog. A senator by the last Christmas. I didn't vote for that. I didn't endorse that law in particular, but I think, unlike what you did. A senator, that you should obey the law, even if you have not supported it yourself. But he believes that he doesn't even have to support a law he votes for. There are laws and laws on the land. You can't say that it was a bad sale when the State enjoys the benefits of the earth. We're raising an offer here. Of course, that's where it turns out. A senator has a special term for this community, and there are no representatives on his side in that rural society. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[It's up to 9 million!]] This was approved by all local cults, according to the Senator's opinion, that the party is missing. It's just that this deal is missing the mood, that's what it's all about. A senator wants to be promoted. However, I want countries and rural groups to help solve young people's housing problems. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u45	A respectable president. I was going to ask for it at the highest. President to give up the highest power. An additional five minutes of finance minister to answer, so that he could continue to make money, turn people into opinions, and perhaps in the last minute have listened to the criticism presented in this hall on the contract he has made. He might then be able to use twenty seconds to reply tactfully to the criticism presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u46	Madam President. Speaking in the highest way is not really appropriate. Secretary of finance did earlier. You can discuss this topic in a very perfunctory way. We can have differing opinions, as was evident, and the minister was, of course, severely criticized. But going through people in the way that this was done can hardly be considered a new method of work, can it? Is this the work being done along with the bright future? I'm not going to mention the Independence Party, he hasn't done any particular new work. I think the Minister should come in and apologize for this, I think he ran into it. I can't believe this is what he means, the words he dropped. Of course, it would be honorable for no one, either him or anyone, to go through people like this. I'm the highest. Minister to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u47	A respectable president. There is little that shows the lack of logic of politicians than when they are at fault with those who may not have the same opinion or who are simply discussing matters with them. It's very sad to get to the top. A financial and economic minister who made it to the council under the premise that he was announcing a new strategy should allow him to perform such a lawsuit. This isn't the first time I ever had. Ministers associate with the General in a way that makes you wonder what respect the Minister actually has for the council. I'm the highest. Ministers to come up here, make things better, apologize. It can make everyone's mistake. The way you deal with your mistakes tells you all about what a person is like. What do you think? The members of the board of directors, my ass. Councilmen reverend, about their Chairman? [[The president calls.]] Is this the new campaign plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u48	Madam President. I was watching this conversation down here, and I hardly really believed my ears, that the language was being spoken at the moment. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son's victory at the melancholy plot of the Hauck & Aufäuser report. I'm just asking myself, "What's this about? V.E.G. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs sent me and the rest of the political parties a letter after the election in October where he wanted us to work together for better work at the General Assembly. I subscribed to that letter but found it better to work on it after the assembly. Is that how it works? - Is that what the Secretary of Economics was talking about? I think it's the highest. A minister would be greater if he came up here and apologized for his words, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u49	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson requested this special discussion on the day following the announcement that this contract had been made. It's been a month and a half since. That's the time. Sadly, a minister used to kill the discussion and all criticism of these arrangements, not here at the council, but on his cover and in his interviews. And I'm sure, then, this scheme, this disregard for the council, and to come here and spit snouts into the apocalyptics that have been waiting here for a month and a half before to have a word with the Minister, there's just one thing that comes to mind: It's West in the United States: drummism. Is he the one we're going to bring in here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u50	A respectable president. There's a government sitting here with one man more part. Here, too, there is a government of three categories in which the chairman of one category, reverend, here is repeatedly in conversation with the Allied Council with pride and pride. I'm not going to the highest sense of humor. Minister, because there are probably some who like his joke, not the one that stands here. But the plan that's at the highest. The minister went down here to the administrate in the natural request for critical tactics, is completely below all caves. Do not these ministers trust in a perplexing discussion? Is that something of the highest value? A minister can't handle it? Is it something he does not trust to do, to communicate honestly, without disrespecting the other person? Is that something of the highest value? A minister is exemplary? I challenge the highest. The minister, to come in, and to make request of his words: for he is my man. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u51	Madam President. The words are the highest. Financial and economic ministers dropped here, it's totally unacceptable. I challenge him, like any other senator, to come here and apologize. I also ask the President to accompany us as members of the Parliament. Here's what you wanted. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson after the discussion asked questions, all classes participated in the discussion, and we have the right to get answers from the executives when asking questions. The Ministers are in charge of the council, and we don't deserve to get caught up in the end of that discussion. I'm asking the President to accompany members of the council in this matter and demand that the Ministers behave properly and treat us with respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u52	A respectable president. Of course, a word just flew here and may have been a few things overcrowded. But I miss a minister's answers, too. Here are some questions asked by members of the conference that were not answered at the end of the discussion. At the same time that a few words were spoken, a few were missing. I asked, for example, about the interest rate given in this contract by the Garden town. I asked for a reference to the law, to be able to give contracts to local companies at a better market than others, and for income from rent property. There were other questions raised by other members of Parliament. I would love to get answers to them and like an apology for the words that were spoken up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u53	V.E.G. President. This was a controversial discussion. We don't all agree, that's for sure. But the words are the highest. Ministers dropped here are totally unacceptable. I go looking for him to pray. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson apologize for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u54	Madam President. It's amazing. Here, we have not received any answers to questions about the government's sale on Earth. Rather, we have replaced the unacceptable conduct of a minister to the leader. V.E.G. The minister of finance is not even seen here in the hall or in the sides of the council, but will depart as soon as this rudeness is cast forth here into the chamber. He has no manhood to come up here and apologize for those words. And also, we do not have the manhood to answer the questions that we senators are trying to answer, i.e. of what would be expected of the people of Garðar, when the state sold the land of the Vifilos to Garða. Madam President. I wish for the highest. Secretary of finance come in here, apologize for his words, and answer our questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u55	Madam President. I agree that it is totally unacceptable that, with confidence in the last word in the discussion, in a special discussion, a minister should allow himself not to answer one single question addressed to him. Not alone. [[Up front.]] Not one of the members of the council here spoke up with reasonable doubts about this process. It's not like the highest. Minister says it's overcritical and very professional and all. We waited for answers, got nobody, got a shit attack. I'm gonna repeat my two questions: Invited to buy the lands of Köldnaholt, the land of Köldnaholts, and the country of the Wolfsfells of Gardander County? I'd like an answer to that. And second of all, Madam President, approved the Supreme Court. The health minister of this operation? Did they put this in charge of the government? Is he willing to offer up a future arrangement for health care in this country? [[The president calls.]] It's very important that it lies in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u56	A respectable president. I confess that my criticism in a special discussion at the highest level. Secretary of finance was hard. In reply he had indicated that the Kingdom was very different from that of the land since then. I understand that a minister has become nervous and has refused to answer such questions. I can also understand that it is difficult to explain, based on objective value assessment of land since 2001, as assessed by VSO advice, which cost 8◯16 times higher, why would it be wise to go to land through reform agreements of only 60% with the nation's holdings? As a matter of fact, I can understand the quality of the highest. Minister, he has shown her so many times in this room, and I don't expect him to apologize to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u57	A respectable president. This may be the case in the conference room, where we lose ourselves. You can, for example, try to understand it. But that must be so that people can also come up in a pit, since I'm at the highest. The minister of finance is now in the side hall, and simply apologized for the words he had fallen, as he has done before. That he also asks us here, which included in the discussion an apology for not answering the questions we were pointing to him. There must be a requirement for a new senator to be as new as the highest. A minister may not have completely forgotten what he spoke about when he spoke to voters for elections, about the importance of improving the politicians, and how he would behave if he entered the council, and expected to be a minister as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u58	Madam President. We're here to say something and to point out the obvious, but we don't get any response from the highest level. Minister. He does not see reason to apologize for his words. We're in a hurry. He has been listening to this talk in the side room. Moreover, he does not see reason to answer the questions that are addressed to him that will make us here in a smaller part of the council, although we are now having more votes behind us, difficult to fulfill our role. Then finally I must direct my words to President Mrs. Is it okay for Mrs. President to perform this way, to the highest level. A minister whose last word they use in this unacceptable way that we see here? Is Mrs. President okay? Would she adopt the matter on the presiding committee? The prime committee's judgment has a place of speech for the highest level. Minister? Because this is not the way the Agency can treat the legislature. It's just not available. I demand that the prime committee adopt this case. [[The president calls.]] It's not okay, and we won't be offered this kind of attitude, Madam President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u59	A respectable president. I hope it's good for the highest. Ministers in the side room with their companions there. He would certainly be a man greater if he sat here and looked at our faces. He can look at our faces when he offends us, not when he listens to our response. What is this about the general performance of the project? Is it just something you learn when you get to the minister's chair that you treat the legislature with contempt? The request that we direct to the minister is answered late or badly. On Friday, I received an answer to a inquiry submitted on March 8. I have not yet received an answer to a question asked on March 23rd. There was no explanation of why the law was not accepted and answered. Special discussion is requested for months. It's going down to a council that's blowing up, and now we don't have to listen to it. When I'm at the highest. The minister is so able to come here, show up, meet us -- he goes for his commission to us -- then he rolls over us. [[The president calls.]] And how to apologize? No. Such people are not instinctive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u60	Madam President. I'll join my partners. All of this seems to indicate that, with the time of the special discussion now, the members of the council here had a word with the minister and no answers may have to gather this into one large question for the minister so that he would be forced to answer it, there will be a written inquiry. If a minister is going to try to avoid answering this at the Hall of Congress, he must have to answer the inquiry in writing. I hold that this case will be adopted on the Committee to Presidency, because he is not the only Minister who does this. I've told the minister that I didn't like the words he was referring to me here. He apologized for it, but he did it on a moneybook. He didn't do it here at the council, but he did it on a moneybook. I'm going to pray to the highest. Minister to meditate on his word and to apologize in the right place, i.e. in the public speaker's office. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u61	A respectable president. I find it necessary to correct information that has been reported on the smaller part of the votes and the greater part of the votes. It is a matter of growth that both government and government opposition have a smaller share of all votes, on the one hand, the government has 46.64% of all votes, on the other hand, the lesser part of 47.62% of all votes. Then there is a question of the value of political parties that did not make it into Congress and then an easy, invalid vote. It has more votes than the administrative body, with less votes, in order to ensure complete control of the authority's authority. She's in charge of my part of voters. It really needs to be kept in mind regarding the payment of all cases of the government's office. It is most questionable that we leave it to such a democracy that the majority of the power is in the shadow of my terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u62	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister of Justice for taking it into my request for a special discussion on this important and urgent matter, which renewal of the Landguard Fleet. The National Guard runs three large helicopters today. One helicopter, two TF-Living, two TF-GNI and TF-SYN. TF LIFE is the oldest of them, created in 1986, and therefore at more than 30 years of age. On September 3, 2015, the current Minister of Internal Affairs appointed a member to ensure a search and rescue service in Iceland's economic legal history for the future with a renewal in Iceland's National Reservation Guard. The team produced a report in January 2016 under the title Report on helicopters for Iceland's National Relations. The social aim of that report is to ensure the future search and rescue services with helicopters. Among other things, the report shows that the main factors to determine are how helicopters will be purchased with the demand for life - saving ability of the flotation at sea. It takes into account the laws on the National Guard that define the territory of the Quality that exists around Iceland and is marked by the economic legal history of the country and the national base, as well as by national rights. On the basis of this, it has been proposed that the harbor shelters of the Land Guard have drawn to travel 235 miles off the coast, which are the outer limits of the economic law, can take ten people on board and reach back to the fuel point. By doing so, you can look for and rescue by helicopter in the entire financial history of the world. In addition, the National Security will look for and rescue in the defined Iceland search and rescue area of more than 1.9 million square miles. Also, the relief helicopters of the Hostage Search, Rescue, and Medical Transporters are on the move. A report by the helm shows that it is more practical to have helicopters than to rent them. For three helicopters, the cost may vary up to 500 million. K. every year. The board of directors is suggested to buy three helicopters of a size similar to that of the National Guard today. This total investment is estimated to be 13.9 billion and another cost of tenders and advice on the export procedure is estimated to be 300 million. Thus, the total cost of the project is estimated to be 14.2 billion. The effect of the European Commission's success in this case is that in a report published in January 2016, there is one reason why the U.S. dollar gangs are calculated to be 132. ... onthedollar. Based on today's gang today, which is about 103 k. on the dollar, a dollar has been made stronger by 28% since the report. The price of helicopters in today's program would be nearly 10 billion instead of 14 as in the report. Then there is another factor that could significantly affect this process of buying new large helicopters, which is that the global oil industry is low and that it can affect the price of helicopters. In 2009, the rescue efforts here around the country have fallen considerably ill when the U.S. Guard left Iceland, including the Sports and Rescue Forces that had to appoint five powerful helicopters. Therefore, it is important to seek all ways to strengthen the ability and strength of the Marine Corps as soon as possible to fill in the gap left behind by the army helicopter and rescue team. There has long been a debate about the fact that the services of the United States Marine Corps are much weaker in the eastern part of the country. There has been a debate to support the service of the Land Guard in that area in recent years on the eastern part of the country as well as on the northern and east seas. Finally, I would like to ask the following questions at the top of my life. Minister of Justice: Is there a minister or a government with any ideas for renovating on the landguard helicopter? If so, how should this work be carried out? Would it be possible to speed up the bird's helicopters because of the favorable conditions that exist today in view of the strong success of the crown and other favorable conditions that exist in this specialized sector? For a period of time, however, there has been an idea that the National Guard set up a second eastern base with special emphasis on the survival of the household helicopter. What is the situation of that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, a advocate of speech, for bringing up this fine matter and thus giving me a chance to tear down the bargaining situation. As noted in the case of the administrators, a special control team returned a proposal for the renewal of the helicopter fleet in January 2016. Thereafter, the then government decided to take up the task of renewing the helicopter fleet. That made it possible that an invitation to sign a contract would be made in 2019 C.E. They were introduced in the budget prior to 2017/2021, and they are established in the financial program now available for the Council for discussion. The government is now preparing for the land - care fleet to be reassigned with the aim of getting three new helicopters delivered in the year 20213/42023. Of course, by retrieving the helicopter, there is an increase in security and efficiency, so I agree with the opinion expressed in the direct group report and the verbal renovations here. The new helicopters will be equipped with perfect equipment, enabling the helicopters to rescue the sailors and to carry out more stress on land, such as by increasing tourism. So this is a very big step in strengthening both ocean - and - land search and survival and promoting national security on other projects they perform. Based on the results of the Control Unit that returned the 2016 report, a detailed demand for helicopter performance and needed equipment will be submitted first. The budget estimated that this program will start in 2018, however, the National Guard has been authorized to speed up this project and is already starting work on specifications and other information necessary to start the evacuation process and to do a market forethought. This will give you a better understanding of potential market prices, and a considerable amount of time will be saved in the event of an assignment. We may be able to take advantage of opportunities at a favorable level in these areas. This project is now being carried out by a national security task force under the direction of a project manager who will be temporarily hired for the job. It will be consulted with Kingdom Halls on a technical basis and will be consulted by neighboring nations who have recently purchased helicopters, e.g. Finland and Denmark Plans estimate that this preparation work will start over the next few weeks and will be costed in 2017, in the current year, from the Land Week Remuneration Fund, and in 2018 there will be a special budget to cover the costs of preparing tenders. In 2019, according to the budget plan 2018/2022, the purchases will be delivered to the National Reservation Guard, as I mentioned earlier. These purchases are expected to be 14 billion, but, of course, it is not normal to make a commitment. Of course, we need to realize that we are going to an invitation to get the best price and no way to determine what comes out of it. There may be no reason to attach the money so that people do not reach the most favorable offer. It is asked whether it is possible to speed up the respirator. I have already mentioned this preparatory work that is necessary. It's starting a year earlier. If plans are to complete the first to-do to-dos that describe technology by the end of this year, the overall project could be accelerated for about one year, provided that the state-of-the-art situation changed from what is expected in the budget. The purchase of helicopters has not been decided before. The first phase was speeded up to allow more time to prepare the invitation and the purchases. Also, I think I'll bet, at least in the written request here for presentation to the council, whether or not they were working on an idea set up by the National Railroad of the East, with special emphasis on the QA helicopter. It is therefore to say that a formal assessment of the need for a second field service center in the North and East, which would be necessary if that decision was made. In recent years, however, the experience of the National Guard has been examined in the context of statistics and other factors. This suggests that a work station in the North and Eastern countries would significantly improve the services of the CAP, but, as expected, this would lead to a significant increase in cost of management.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u64	A respectable president. We're talking about helicopters, patrol ships, and planes. It's a real pleasure to see that our weekend service fleet is being reinvigorated. In this context, it is important to also ensure management funds. According to the National Guard, the National Guard has to have seven helicopter crews. It is not enough to buy helicopters, nor is it possible for humans to live with them. Or you need to add men to the patrols and have three ships ready. This is how it is, from what I understand, that the patrol ships cannot be kept in an adequate guard every day of the year. The budget has to be assured to keep out the management of TF-SIF aircraft so that it does not have to be rented out on foreign projects much of the year. We must ensure minimal protection and survival at sea around the country every day of the year. The ships, helicopters, and airport aircraft must be in order and meet the demands of the day and be well designed. To shorten my response time, I feel that it is extremely important to set up a work station for a helicopter in the East. The Icelandic fleet is often in large part east of the country, and we know that when a disaster occurs at sea, a large part of the fleet can make a difference if, for example, a large part of the fleet is available. A place on the east side of the furrows. Of course, having the rescue machines all on the same spot is crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, the Coast Guard. How might our quality be very helpful if we do not even have people to design the tools we already have? In 2009, the National Security put in use a Dash-8 search and surveillance plane. In fact, that aircraft has not been seen very much in Icelandic waters because money has been used to spread it into a Mediterranean border service has had a crucial impact on the existence of funds to finance other aspects of the feast. This was very clear and clear in the case of the director of the National Guard that if we hadn't gotten an ongoing contract with Frontex, it would have had to be taken up. The National Guard serves a very important role in Icelandic society. It was the National Guard that set the first men ashore when an avalanche struck Flats. It's the National Guard that serves to rescue the mountains and the roads of the country. It is the National Guard that is under special stress because of tourists'saving mountain travelers, which in times of need, vomited up patients from an accident. Though this is the case, it has not been taken into account. In 2009 the number of crews on our choppers was reduced, and it was not clear how two helicopters could be operated but just over half of the year. It might be said that the National Guard was on top of funding and economic management. The wedding of the sex is held in the Faeroe Islands because of the lack of supplies available and increasing by means of possible outing days. I ask, "Why are we talking about new helicopters without even having people put in them? " A continuation of the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion. Clearly, he is the subject of all the flying machines involved. I'm here to celebrate the government's plans to renew the armada of the National Reservation Guard. The renewal is timely, as was shown in a 2016 board report. Only one of the currently available landplanes is useful for rescue operations under Icelandic conditions, and this cannot be considered ideal. In accordance with budgetary plan 2018/22022, the renewal will increase the safety and efficiency of the land's inhabitants and tourists both on land and at sea. An updated fleet is also a link to Iceland's foreign policy, where we need to be prepared to carry out our security responsibilities. The new blind-flying mechanism in TF LIFE is also timely. It is important to mention a good plan to introduce technical innovations, such as the automatic authentication systems set by satellite and the use of the knowledge and use of the Land Guard for analysis at the bottom of Iceland by modern technology. Most remarkable, though, is the international cooperation of the Icelandic National Guard. The budget did not have room to keep the plane's TF-SIF out completely, and it's good to be able to cooperate with the international community. To bridge the gap, the aircraft has shared in projects of the European Union's borders. This may not be the ideal situation, but it is quite acceptable. As the financial programme will establish, the welfare of the Landland Guard is being maintained by these foreign assignments. People with more experience and knowledge come back. A respectable president. I believe it is urgent that we maintain the United States Marine Corps for security reasons as well as for the ever-growing international cooperation in the area of defense and rescue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? Friðbertsson To bring up this important point and answer to the highest. Minister. Now, the National Guard has tremendous trust in the public in Iceland, one of the institutions that can boast that we always look at it. Happily, then, the National Guard is always up to it and can save us when something is wrong. It is, of course, also, and we have to admit, that in recent years we have put far too little money in the D.C., and as a result, it has not been able to oversee the whole weekend. We also watch about our helicopters that they are in their years, and renting is expensive. Hence, in the last government, it was a very good decision to buy three new helicopters. Thank you. A senator for asking if it is possible to speed this up. I agree with both ministers and members of Congress that, of course, there is a possibility that we may be able to make a new move for some time. It is also important to watch a joint invitation with other countries. We can then become a part of a bigger whole, then the time factor, when it would be best to participate, to speed it up, or to be at this time, depending on whether we could become part of a larger package of other states to form. It's a long time to wait until 2021, 223, after delivery of the helicopters. So it would also be possible to ask, " Can I go somewhere in between while I'm finishing that assignment? ' I'm just going to step it up in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u68	Madam President. A national study will deal with a medical flight in Iceland in a report published by the Agency in August 2013 and will include indications. to the State Department that the Ministry of Internal Affairs would need to formally investigate whether the introduction of the National Relations for Hospital Flight in Iceland would be a practical possibility and an effective option and the need for a long-term plan for national protection. A national review followed its indications and repeated them in a September 2016 report. It says that in mid - September 2012, it would have been decided to offer a medical flight from January 1, 2013, to the Myhf. has taken the task. However, the arrival of the National Guard continued to be considered, so the contract period was only one year with an extension of a year to a maximum of five times. The State Department of State informed last year that they had sought the position of the National Guard, which would have considered many opportunities, in that she had formally made all the hospital flights in Iceland and that there was an independent party to make an assessment of the further access of the DIC to medical flights. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is the assessment complete? When do we get to see the results? The National Guard is now scattered in rented rooms in many places. During three terms, the members of the Southern District have presented a case in which to use the facilities at the Cheflavour Airport for the National Guard. The safety area at Keflavík Airport has a very suitable position for all future activities. It has buildings, aerospaces, high ports, and musculoskeletal systems that fully meet the needs of the DLC. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has she taken that suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u69	Madam President. I thank the advocate of this need for discussion. A financial programme shows that three new helicopters, long - term purchases, are expected, but at the same time, it brings attention to the fact that the Agency's management is not secure, either when it comes to design or other operations. It says that if the Agency is to be able to carry out laws on security and services, the budget needs to be around 1.4 billion dollars. every year. The number of helicopter crews needs to be increased by two, so we don't expect 56% of the year to be definitively able to ensure a search and rescue service at sea or with a helicopter. The National Guard has requested additional legal clearances to keep a run on the TF-SIF, and we Iceland around the year so that there is no need to rent it on projects abroad of a large part of the year, it doesn't end up with the same potential as has been available. In order to ensure minimum law enforcement and saving capacity in the ocean, it is necessary to secure the aircraft in Iceland. Also, two crews on the patrol at a cost of about 550 million are not expected by the government, and the best option would be that the third ship would be seaworthy, so that the time for response would be no more than 24 hours for the 48 as it is currently. Last year, there was no appointed ship for the 165 days of the year, and in a financial program, it is a direct reference in 2022 that it will continue. It must be completely unacceptable. This financial weakness is profound and incomprehensible because the plans for survival are not better considered. It is futile to have helicopters and ships without full use of the work they are intended for. The above - quoted report on the price of the previous mortgage shows that the number of rescue helicopters reported has increased by 27%. Four years, mainly because of the rise in the number of tourists that are likely to increase in the number of tourists, are also present in these numbers as well as in the urgent air - carrying treatments in the country. A financial program shows that the Agency faces challenges in the coming years to maintain an adequate level of service under supervision, search and rescue, all because the government has decided not to contribute enough money to the National Guard. [[The president calls.]] This is impossible to satisfy, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u70	A respectable president. The visitor was on patrol for about 311 days in 2016. Then we applied for about one second. half the time of our new ship, but in the other half of the codfish souvenirs of the cod war. We need to determine where we stand in security. I know that in caring and training for the few jobs offered in the Country Guard, role models are under attack. They do their jobs solely and do the best that can be done in the situation at any one time. We who are sitting in this room are the ones who define the working environment of these people. It is our responsibility that other countries should be drawn to save at fuel prices. Why don't we choose how many helicopters we're going to do rather than take up this discussion on whether it is advisable to make good use of the financial conditions to invest in new helicopters or whether helicopters have been located elsewhere than in Reykjavík? Are they supposed to serve an ambulance? Who are to be humanized, and how often? A respectable president. We need to act on national and marine security in a way that enables us to seize the worst possible outcome. The sheepfolding is something we simply cannot defend for anyone. So, finally, I want to paint a black movie. Has anyone in this room thought about how we will react to a shipwreck on a passenger ticket of 5,000 people? Are we going to send in one helicopter, the measuring boat Baldur and the Half-human, because Þór is on fuel in the Faeroe Islands and we can't call the American anymore? That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What do the Minister intends to do in the budget of the welfare? Does the minister believe that the goose can do his part with the present funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u71	A respectable president. It is clear that it is a very long time to wait here until 2021/223 after we improve the field service level of the National Reservation and thus ensure the continued safety of the people, the tourists, and the seafarers, and all others. I'm not gonna talk about this if the number of tourists keeps growing. Many point out that helping tourists has become one of the biggest roles of the National Guard, and it may be reasonable for us to face the National Guard by putting more money on it because of the pressures caused by increasing tourist flows. However, there is another friendship in this case that humans have been discussing. In recent years, there has been a tremendous increase in the number of the transports of the region by automobiles and by air. Time and again, the National Guard has been called on to use the helicopter. Often, a helicopter is better than a plane or a car. There is a possibility, and there has been a talk in the South, to make a deal with e.g. Norwegians who run such hospital choppers, go on a experiment project that would be then possible to partially solve the patient's plane and save a substantial amount of money on it, and make a considerable contribution to the safety. By keeping the location of the helicopters different according to the time of the year and, for example, the time of the year. When large crowds are held and even by the weather, a higher level of security, a better service, perhaps no more expensive at the end of the day, can be assured. Otherwise, we use a very expensive medical flight, which is not good enough. I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. Minister if any of these have entered the justice minister's table. [[The president calls.]] It should probably also be on the table of health care ministers if so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u72	A respectable president. The National Guard has a place in the minds of the people of the country, who trust it with the best public institutions in the country. About five times more trust in the National Guard than in us here at this fine institution, the High General, according to Gallup survey. This trust has been earned by good works and better practice. It has an animal, a special equipment, a shipping and aeroplane fleet, and ahead there is a time of renewal and a good and urgent plan, but a renewal has to be carried out to strengthen the management of the host environment. Reports of Land Guard projects are becoming increasingly related to air operations, helicopter rescue work, and particularly to accidents and transport of patients, even between parts of the country, although projects in many seas have been carried by the seas, both on the coasts of Iceland and on the far seas. Icelanders had a background of limited faith in the use of helicopters in Iceland. They have proved their best in our situation, and quite a number of helicopters are here in use and in various sizes. Medical flights in Iceland have long served as an important but fragile service. Small airlines have been negotiated for the ministry, and the aims for security have not always been fulfilled in times of trial. The supply of medical equipment must be fixed, but there are weaknesses in the present system. A center of the medical flight in Akureyri has improved. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister, just like what you're doing. paritaprevir Sodny G. Harðardóttir, whether or not it was the practicality of concealing the Landland Guard for a more formal and larger role in this service, i.e. air transport, by means of aerodynamic armada, largely helicopters that would have to be about the size required, for example, in view of the experience of neighboring nations. The tools, experience, and knowledge are available, services are already provided, and opportunities for economic management do not seem to be distant in light of agreement. [[The president calls.]] Is it not reasonable to consider that this part of the government's health and emergency services is in agreement and on one hand, at the National Guard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u73	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for a good discussion here today and for a statement at the top. The Minister of Justice that the project manager is starting work to look at the possibilities and that it would be possible to speed up the process, at least Prepare the process that is much. It's technical, and there's a lot of work to be done. This is indicated by the report of the first - January cruise team that by having the helicopter instead of renting, about 500 million could be saved. It also states that the cost of operating at each crew is about 260 million, one crew on a helicopter every year. Today we have five crews. With seven crews and new large helicopters, we would have added considerably to our annual quality. Then I think the ratio goes to 95% where people can respond with two helicopters and crews, going far to the ocean, which is an enormously important matter. It would be interesting to take a deeper discussion here, where the discussion took various directions, became a medical flight, and elsewhere. I've had a lot of thought about it during the conversation in Iceland, how the Norwegians manage their medical flights, taking the northernmost part of Norway as an example, which would be interesting when we're talking about less helicopters. The reason we're buying so large, nine tons, and expensive helicopters turns to the success or rescue power far beyond the cliffs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u74	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place. I'd like to mention as far as the cash is concerned that we're all, I think, agree that it's not enough to buy new and fine helicopters, of course, that they need to be humanized. They are well aware that the number of crews in the helicopters will need to be increased in due time. On the other hand, I would like to object to what was being said in somebody's speeches. Congress members of the United States to oversee the budget of the National Reservation Guard. Such statements have no evidence to support either in documents or in the case of the DLA itself, nor do they shed any light on the business problems that some of the individual helicopters may have. It has been noted that there were airplanes and patrols in the south on special projects. It is true that some amounts of money are being taken into consideration. But it must not be forgotten that by doing so, the National Guard has gained an enormous amount of experience and knowledge that it would not have, or, in any case, probably on a smaller scale, could gain access to land. There's nothing so bad that you don't say something good. That was a good discussion of hospital flights. I agree with them that it would be a pleasure and that I think it would be useful to have a special discussion about it. The National Guard has a legal role when it comes to hospital flights. Over the years, the health - care unit has grown dramatically. I take, for example, the number of medical flights I have in my country in the first 806, which increased 14% since 2015, of which the National Guard flew a 132 flight. [[The president calls.]] There is an opinion to further research on the approach of the DLC to the hospital flight, but I would like to mention immediately and insist that, of course, there are competitive principles that also apply and that need to be looked into.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u75	Madam President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister of Justice on the law of public penalties to limit freedom of expression in the cause of the European Court of Human Rights on the rights of journalists'rights. Now, the Supreme Court has been convicted of six counts of freedom of expression. The final case is this year May but not long ago. Printed the case, Supreme Court's trial against journalists Reynir Traustason, Ingi Freyr Vilhjálmsson, and Jón Reynisson, the last case involved Steingrímur Sævar Ólafsson, the editor of the Press. In turn, one of three decisions has been made in matters related to Erla Hlynsdóttir's daughter. It raises questions as to whether the legal environment needs to be revised. An interview was made with the chairman of the Court's Society of State Radio this year, which I quote to Skúli Magnússon, chairman of the Court of Justice Society of Iceland, that the regulations of the general penal law on the limitations of the expression freedom were out of date and unavoidable that they would be revised. I'm particularly interested in this case because when the printing laws were canceled in their time, and new media laws were given particular consideration to matters that protected journalists'freedom of expression. But it is already well discussed by a press committee on the home page of the fine committee that the changes made in the media law were intended to ensure that, in a better way, journalistal expression freedoms would not be sufficient while the laws of the public penitentiary remain unchanged. However, the question can be asked, " Do I need to do both? ' I'm interested in the highest viewpoint. Minister to that, i.e. reviewing the laws of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law. It was also noted by the chairman of the European Court of Justice Society that courts had to reconsider their work. But my question to the highest. The minister is, does she think this matter is primarily under the law, or does she agree with the chairman of the European Court of Justice Association that these regulations need to be revised? It is worth considering for our community that six times the decision has been made that the Supreme Court has actually taken a wrong course or has failed to succeed in these matters when the Court of Human Rights makes a different decision than the Supreme Court for six times. In recent years, it's been a long time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she reconsider the laws of public penalties? [[The president calls.]] May we expect such suggestions in the near future, or do we feel that there are other viewpoints that need to be considered on the grounds of these embarrassing matters, allow me to say?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u76	A respectable president. As we know, since 2012 the European Court of Human Rights issued six sentences, which have concluded that the Icelandic State has violated the freedom of expression by the prosecution in opposition to Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. It is proper to maintain it, as I have done before in this hearing, that in none of their judgments, the European Court of Human Rights showed respect for local legislation. The Criticism of the Court showed that the methodology of local courts, in particular, did not clearly indicate that the rationalization was used by the Human Rights Court's own methodology to determine whether the restricted rights of expression were in accordance with the conditions of Article 10. The covenant. In this way, people can have opinions on whether the European Court's methodology applies specifically to this country or should apply implicitly here. Following the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, governments are under obligation to make the European Council's full - time department and Ministers aware of how the judgments have been carried out. Of course, in the full judgment, there is an obligation to pay the improvements required in the court cases and also to take general measures to prevent the recurrence of similar fractions. Of course, it is sometimes necessary to make adjustments for that purpose. Yet, as mentioned earlier, those judgments did not specifically call for it. Thus, the general efforts taken by the government were primarily designed to help the courts respond to the critical judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. For this purpose, the judgments were translated and distributed, including To the courts. .............. Some kind of instruction for a judge, both in general regarding the European Court of Human Rights and also about the terms of freedom of speech and the judgments imposed against Iceland, of course, is important for judges to realize that this has brought benefits to the Icelandic State. It is proper for humans to be informed of this fact. I also wrote a letter to the court council that called attention to the above judgments and the criticism presented there. A reply from the council pointed out the instruction that had taken place in order to do so. I'm taking it as a matter of fact, it doesn't exactly lead to the above reviews that XXV needs to be changed. in the general penal code. Of course, there are changes in viewpoints and possible new technologies that can potentially lead to a decision as to whether to reduce criminal protection in some areas. I have said so myself, and it is my opinion that the defamatory or defamatory may not necessarily belong in the penal law but rather submit to the laws of the damage court. It is true in the relationship to point out that at the 138th legislature, Iceland's decision-to-be-free legal position in terms of freedom of expression and information was adopted by the legislature. According to the Council of Congress, the Ministry of Education and Culture was assigned to work an assessment of the legal environment and to prepare needed laws or legislation to strengthen freedom of expression, freedom of speech, communications of information, freedom of release. I understand that the client knows that how it feels, because she appointed them to be the head of education and culture to lead them to work. As a result of their work on the council resolution, their local Minister of Internal Affairs began looking for a judicial committee in 2012 that the committee gave the opinion of whether to be punished according to XXV. section of the penalties of delinquency, and whether there is evidence to bring a court order because of the total mismanagement of the judicial court to the realm of private rights, e.g. damage rights. The court concluded at the time that this assessment had to guide the principles that result from the 71s and 73s. The Constitution, 8th and 10th. European Convention on Human Rights, Freedom of Life and Freedom of Speech I agree with that assessment. That there would be much to plan if such changes were to take place. The committee considered that it would be appropriate to cancel the regulations of 234 and 237. g. general penalties, misdemeanors, in part or in all respects. However, it would continue to ensure that those who felt that their honor and reputation in public fields could enjoy adequate legal proceedings, especially in the form of unsigned protests and failures. Last September, a minister of education on his home page introduced several prime radios made by a prominent control group, including a bill to a new law of mismanagement. According to the bill, various ordinances of the penal law are canceled, but instead of the benefits of the one who exasperates another with insults or indignities. These suggestions have not been formally reviewed in the Ministry, but I have done so myself. I think it's a good idea for a bill that's being presented there. However, I have specific material observations to do so, even in my opinion that it is not enough to ensure freedom of expression, and I have requested that this offer be started at the Ministry to examine these suggestions in particular with the basis of that viewpoint. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u77	President. Thank you for this discussion. I am very happy to hear the answers from the highest. Minister, especially since this bill has been in the past for a considerable time, waiting for someone to take it in. The work at the operating group was based in many ways on compromises. I'm very happy to hear that. A minister is interested in protecting his freedom of expression and will support such changes in a synonym that I was very early in the years since, or at the beginning of 2010. I just hope that we'll find ways to stop becoming a bit of a joke to the European Court on these matters. [[The president calls.]] I'm very happy to hear that we've come to this place, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u78	Madam President. I also have to express my joy that this matter is moving forward. I'd like to add the question of the highest. Ministers see reasons to further improve the training and instruction that judges certainly receive about the protection of freedom of expression, as well as the protection of civil rights in general. As we can see, a wide pot is broken when it comes to protecting the civil rights of people in Iceland, e.g. with a very frequent solitary custody guard. This is one of many ways in which we seem to be standing back to other nations in the protection of civil rights. The victory sentence was referred to here by the captain. He made repeated judgments by the European Court of Human Rights on the exact same subject. When it comes to protecting civil rights, especially freedom of expression, is it not a cause for continuing to be a judge in what seems to be the greatest court case there? [[The president calls.]] However, the question may be asked: Is there not more judgment on others or even more serious violations of civil rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u79	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers, and what. The members of the council mentioned here. It was hoped after the first judgment that the Supreme Court changed his interpretation of the law's declarations of freedom. It has been claimed that this has not really happened, which has repeatedly resulted in a fall from the European Court of Human Rights. I believe that it is not enough for us to revise the proceedings but, rather, obviously, the law. I understand that already the highest. One minister says that she feels it important to revise these provisions not only from the line of punishment but also from a broader view of how we can protect our freedom of expression, that it exists. V.E.G. Minister quoted a bill from the control group at the IMI case. I'll be happy if that's true. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Shall we expect to have the highest power? Minister will suggest any changes in the spirit of that bill at the next council? Do we expect to meet these requirements in general, in order to meet the decision of the European Court of Human Rights? Because that is so, and I find it a special point to think about when even the head of the Justice Society points to the need for a review of the law, it is not enough to look to the project. I think it's the highest. A minister agrees, asking her to confirm that understanding, and to see if we can be sure that this will be on her list at the next assembly. We who have been here, perhaps for a long time -- of course, it's not okay for the legislature to respond to the repeated judgments, although not all of them are comparable and not all bow, like the Supreme Court. However, a minister pointed out that what is stated in law seems to have to be more specific to the lawgiver in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u80	A respectable president. That question was addressed to me about the possible training for a judge or a re-education, in line with the fact that the court council held such instruction, as I noted earlier in my speech. Of course, it is not a minister to tell judges what to do or to bring them back to education. The courts themselves claim to be independent. On the other hand, I draw attention to the new decision that, according to the Board of Elders, e.g. it is assumed, if any interest is in re-education by a judge, that at any given time there is always one highest court judge on a leave of study. So I don't think that men need to despair, in fact, that all judges serving here are growing without re-education. Of course, it is good for all, of course, to practice self - examination and a variety of education and to re-education for retirement. I can totally confirm what I said that I'm interested in changing the penalties of penalties, XXV. Chapters and a lot of crazy things and stuff. So that's what they're saying. There is a pretext that a bill to legalize the changes to the general law of penalties. On the one hand, there is a change in 233rd paragraph. a that this control group quoted as saying, assumes that they will still remain inside. On the other hand, there is a new bill of delinquency, which I like quite well but make comments. So I'm gonna name something there, for example. Based on a deportation of regulations for the prohibition on the ignomination of princes and of other things. It has been suggested that we are bound to international commitments in this regard. There may be some contribution to it that needs to be different from what is expected there. But I have a strong desire to present such issues at the next assembly, expecting interesting cooperation and benefit from the Senate in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u81	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Justice on factors related to her engineering and Ministry when it comes to the aims of the Management Board on Equal Opportunities in 2016-02019, adopted at the General Assembly of September 7, 1996. First, I'd like to know how the research into the status of the trustees and refugees is aimed out by the balance and rights standards set out in the 12th Work Programme and second, what measures are involved to ensure that the inmates and refugees receive the fair treatment and appropriate protection required in the programme. To maintain this, last year the General Public and Education Committee discussed an implementation program in the affairs of immigrants, as well as a plan for equality. As indicated by the review of the U.S. National Institute on the Plan, equality and human rights are not being taken into account in Icelandic legislation. In the United States, protection from minorities is not insured or secure ways to seek justice. The European Union's so - called discrimination directives have not yet been legalized in this country. While this has not been done, it is absolutely clear that the national rights of justice are indiscriminate. How vital it is, then, to take real measures to correct the situation and to engage in real action! As the United Nations Refugee Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund have repeatedly pointed out, today women and children are an overwhelming part of the world's world's refugees and refugees. This is seen among those who turn to Europe for international protection. It is clear, therefore, that equality and human rights have to be in full priority when the position of the trustees and refugees is charted for all the most vulnerable group that flees their own countries. Also, I would like to receive the highest answers. A minister to see if there is adequate consideration for equality and human rights in Icelandic legislation and legislation, including Based on gender, sexual orientation, or gender, susceptible individuals and victims of violent crime and human trafficking as defined in the Convention of Equal Opportunities in 2016-2019. It is also a top priority to consider gender, sexual orientation, and sexual images in the litigation of refugees, where people are often and were usually forced to flee their own lands because of their sexual orientation. All the most vulnerable groups of society in which we have to care especially for are human halls and overexploitors. These are some of my main questions to the highest level. Minister of Justice. I hope to find good and satisfying answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u82	A respectable president. Thank you for asking the question of the universal human rights case. The questions are in three teams, but the Ministry of State has not formally undergone a study in line with the 12th Annual Work Programme for Equal Opportunities in 2016-2016, and thus the position of trustees and refugees has not been systematically explored based on equality and human rights, as expected in the programme. Under the programme, however, you will be asked to see if there is an adequate balance and human rights perspective in Icelandic legislation and implementation, including taking into account gender, sexual orientation and gender, sensitive individuals, victims of violent crime and mansalism, and offering proposals for reform to ensure fair court care and protection for refugees and refugees. However, it should be possible for new alien laws to become valid on January 1. Then, the Ministry of Justice, now the Ministry of Justice, received grants at the end of 2015 from the Ministers' Committee on Equal Opportunity to identify the status of women who have applied for asylum in the country and how women could be given adequate protection in the treatment of trust and the granting of trust where sexual matters can certainly weigh heavily. That strength included Using a bill to new legislation on foreigners, an external expert specifically expositing the bill from the above views and offering tips and suggestions for reforming the bill. The report on the bill also provides a detailed chapter on the harmony of the law with the Constitution of Iceland and international rights commitment. The Constitution has even to store a detailed chapter on individual rights, which says everyone's equality with the law and the prohibition of all forms of discrimination, freedom of opinion and expression, privacy and family rights to righteous judicial hearings. You see, it's pretty good, that constitution. At the same time, Iceland has become part of national treaties involving human rights, affairs of foreigners, and their legal standing. These international commitments were taken into account by the bill, so that it would best be in line between the law and national rights. New laws on foreigners often refer to the above rights of individuals under human rights obligations, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, or gender, while endeavoring to ensure the highest rights of sensitive individuals. In support of this, it can be said that according to the new laws on foreigners, a definition of which individuals are considered to be in a particularly more sensitive position to take into account a case or are not fully or not able to take advantage of the right or fulfill the obligations required in the law without assistance or special consideration. Those who fall within this definition include e.g. Unattended children, disabled people, psychiatric people, elderly people, pregnant women, single parents with young children, victims of mansales, seriously ill people, and individuals who have suffered from torture, genital readings, rape, or other severe physical or mental abuse. This can also be referred to pars. a law of foreigners, for example, in this context, stipulation of how an interview with the candidate on international protection should be conducted. During the interview, the National Institutes of Iceland will include: to be careful whether you need to take special care of the candidate because of his personal circumstances. Then, for example, can This is because the applicant is considered to be in a delicate position or needs to take into account the culture or religion of the applicant. A gender should also be taken into account and should be considered by an employee and an interpreter of the same sex, especially if the alleged persecution involves a violation of the sexual freedom of an individual or in some way that the opposite sex could affect the candidate's availability. Of course, it is also important that all applications for global protection be documented, investigated, and made up of decisions and that the members of a family applying for asylum have the right to express themselves. On their own, they shall make the most of an interview, but not in common with other family members. For example, a woman should not be approached by husbands. It is also important that all family members, including children, have the right to express themselves and that they are marked for their age and development. Meetings with parents or guardians should also include an examination of the child's condition and a request for international protection. The decision to implement equality is concluded by the Ministry of Justice, now the Ministry of Justice, at the time of a programme for the execution of research on trustees and refugees. [[The president calls.]] As mentioned earlier, a technical investigation in the Ministry is not started, but it is expected to begin soon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u83	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the 12th staff of the implementation programme, which says that the Ministry's project involves making suggestions for reforming to ensure proper protection and protection of the refugees. The situation of certain social groups in this context is particularly important. The regulations for the reception of refugees have been set up in the Ministry since 2014, but they have not yet been published. The situation of queer people who come here as refugees is not sufficiently recognized, and they lack knowledge of the affairs of human sacrifice victims and transmisers. In our neighboring countries, experts in the affairs of these delicate social groups work at a foreign institution, but the region is in desperate need of expertise in the seminary. We need trained personnel in our institutions who care for this group of people, not only to analyze the situation but also to offer suggestions for reporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u84	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss only the appropriate protection of the inmates in this country, but like the highest. Ministers and councilmen are aware of recently approved laws that withdraw the right of refugees in order to obtain a repetitive effect if the Foreign Institute clearly considers their application unprovable on the basis of their coming from a so - called safe state. In this light, I ask. A minister would consider this article to be acceptable, especially where it violates 1 mg. 13th par. Directive 2008/115/EC, which has been registered in this country and severely violates the handling of refugees. We are now discussing the right to treat refugees'rights. Does a minister really believe that he is concerned with keeping those laws in force? Will she take advantage of the changes they will make to the international commitments of Iceland that have been legalized? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u85	President. According to the definition of the Foreign Institute, Mozula is a safe location. They're sending Kurda back there. A foreign agency must just be better at handling conditions on the ground because I was reading ◯trending in Twitter that now the final battle of ISIS is about to begin in this city. We're going to send people there because they're safe. You must ask yourself, " What exactly is going on when it comes to sending people to the open grave? ' It is also said that the person who lives in the areas where Boko Haram is and has had to flee because he is a Christian can only move to South Nigeria, it's totally safe. It's absurd, Mr President, it's absurd to be treated this way, and they're both allowed to wait here forever in uncertainty, then they're not normally taken care of, and people are just shoveled out of the country by the Order of the Daffles alone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers in their talks and other members of the council. However, I am very sorry to learn that the study of the position of refugees and trustees is not far beyond those views. I remind you that it is extremely urgent to engage in real action to correct the situation and to take real action because, in fact, people in these groups, women and children, queer people, and transvestite, are double minorities, who live in extremes, very delicate groups. I also wondered, when we're talking about the need for real action, whether the cost of an equal rights plan for 2016-2019 is really sufficient when it comes to these teams, section 12, on the analysis of the refugee status and the restitutors from sex to gender and gender. It shows that the cost plan is 3.5 billion. K. I wonder if this is enough to take on the urgent measures needed. V.E.G. The minister referred to certain aspects of the alien law that are being followed and other aspects found in the legislation to work on these equality and human rights issues, and I give the highest credit. Ministers for fine works, and to encourage her, her ministry, and her employees for fine works, for the need is indeed urgent to improve the interests of these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u87	A respectable president. As an apocalyptic, I thank members of the council who have brought up the discussion. It may have been more extensive than a saying, and it was directed to me by a question that is not directly relevant to the material, yet I am kind and obligated to answer it. I was asked if I was going to make some changes in the foreigners'decision to abstain from so - called safe lands and along with unfounded shelters. It is to answer that this law has been passed on to the foreigners for my benefit, and I will certainly protect this provision, since I believe it is necessary for us to be in position to render the best possible service and payment from the trustees, from the people who seek here, and who are in desperate need. It's not a plan to change. Of course, an apocalyptic laments that the matter has not gone further, i.e. The matter lies in the identification and investigation of the position of the trustees, taking into account the implementation of an equal rights programme. As I mentioned in my talk, it was a huge task to put new foreigners in. It is hoped that they could easily have been put in place, and at the same time take into consideration this important matter, but we will, of course, continue our work. The program has to do with the year 2019, so there is some time to revise and invent new things in these materials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u88	A respectable president. Edom list of enzymes, or endometriosis, as it is called in Icelandic, is a chronic painful disease caused by cells inside the uterus found in other parts of the abdomen than the womb cavity. Thus, the disease is inborn and seems to depend largely on genetics. The cells involved in endometrial migration respond to monthly hormonal changes, as they do in their normal parts of the uterus, and bleeding thus occurs inside the tissue causing inflammation and scarring with adhesion between organs in the abdomen and ovarian cysts. Instead of leaving your body as if your usual bleeding did not remove your blood and is actually bleeding inside your body. This disease can be very painful. Ovarian, fallopian tube, bladder, colon, uterine, and others have been identified, even in the lungs, nose, belly button and brain. The disease is characterised by severe pain in bleeding, pain on ovulation, abdominal pain between bleeding, pain during sexual intercourse, urination and bowel movements, difficulty in becoming pregnant and infertility, problems with pregnancy and parturition. The lives of women who suffer from the disease can be greatly affected by the effects of ensocio. What has also been described as a disease is an acute lack of ability and even delusions, lack of information, and knowledge of the disease among health professionals and school staff, but girls are usually at school when they start bleeding. It was long known that women would be tested for up to seven to ten years. I had hoped that this would have changed in view of a growing discussion of the disease in society, but at a recent meeting of the Women's Antichrists in the medical system, in the quality of life and treatment, on March 8, I learned that services to women with endometrios still appear to be very weak in the health system. There are few healthcare professionals with expertise in the disease that, in 2017, girls receive a late diagnosis, often after experiencing severe pain. As a result, those who are specialised for the disease are under great stress and even at risk of burning out trying to care for this highly neglected group of patients. So I want to ask the highest. He or she is planning to improve the quality of health care for women with endometris and if so, how.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u89	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir has addressed to me a verbal inquiry. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Foreman to bring up the health problem that many women face. I will allow myself in this answer to use the term endometriosis for the international term endometriosis to simplify the matter, anyway, for me. So I'll answer a question. A candidate is so that women with endometrial disease will receive services at many health levels. Medical, clinics, and health - care centres, with independent functioning experts. For advice from gynaecologists as needed, the health care providers of endometrium women. Our two large hospitals have arranged for female gynaecologists to communicate with one another to get help from the hospital's pain team when needed. They also welcome and care for women with endometrial infiltrates in Húsavík, the Sea of the Year, the Isles, and the Nessau. The Women's Hospital has been an active specialist in the management of endometrial disease since 2003, and another specialist added in 2014. The Department of Women's Hospital accepts references from doctors outside the hospital when the disease is suspected. Experts are responsible for the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of disease progression and treatment success. Since 2004 it has been done to expand the service of this patient group at the Land Hospital. Last year a specialist nurse was hired to take special care of women with endometriosis. I am a great spokesman for increasing teamwork in the medical service, and I emphasize that those who turn to them get a quick and good service from the professional who knows best about the health problems that a person has to deal with each other. So I support the whole plan of the Land Hospital to increase the number of professional groups that take care of women with endometrial migration. These women often have multiple problems, such as chronic pain of various kinds, infertility, urinary and bowel problems, to name something. Thus, they need not only the services of doctors and nurses but, if so, also social advisers, psychologists, physical therapists, and other specialized members with knowledge of the disease. I would like to emphasize the importance of increased education on endometrial migration, not only to women, but also to teenage parents and especially to health care professionals. In this regard, I refer to the Commission's proposal for an overall review of the law No. 25/1975, on advice and instruction about sex and pregnancy, on abortion and sterilization procedures, which were submitted in November. The committee plays even. provide suggestions on the maintenance of sex education in the U.S. core and higher schools in cooperation with the surgeon general's office, which is now in charge of affairs related to sexual health. I believe one component of sex education for basic and high-school students should be endometrial infiltrates. In this way, we will not only reach young ones with the instruction but also share information with their guardians. School nurses throughout the country are also a very important channel for education and advice on endometrial migration. The training to HCPs on the signs and symptoms and diagnosis of the disease is very important to me. Increased knowledge by a healthcare professional, whether in a healthcare professional or in other areas of health care, may increase the risk of early diagnosis of the disease and prevent long-term pain problems that can be difficult to treat. I also celebrate and support the close cooperation the Women's Hospital experts have had with an endometrial patient group. The increased service that has been performed in recent years has been organized in collaboration with the patient organisation and with the needs of the patients for services and management guide. The latest addition to the service is the opening of phone and e-mail services to this patient group. As far as I'm concerned, this conversation is a great example for the specialists and the patient group. I hope to some extent I have managed to answer a question. A senator, looking forward to having a good discussion here, and coming back into it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u90	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Foreman and chief. Minister for this important discussion. I'd like to, for that's why I'm at the highest level. The Minister and the World of Congress says that all have the same rights to the best health and best health care possible. Actually, in this context, women often carry an odd object from a table. We know that women who consult doctors are less likely to be helped than men when they seek medical help. Endometrial migration is often a result of infertility or, at least, can cause women to need help in raising children. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether to correct the current situation is that women with endometrial disease will not receive any support from the State to have children, if that is right with me. [[The president calls.]] Does a minister think that this will change?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u91	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for the discussion. Fifty-five-10% of women suffer from endometrial infiltrates, or endometrium. It's a huge health problem. We may estimate that some 176 million women in the world suffer from the disease. In harmony with this, we need to start dealing with the problem. Increased knowledge of the health system is needed. It is important to establish a team that accepts and cares for these women in a similar way to those diagnosed with diabetes I, a smaller group. The diagnosis period is six to ten years, which is completely unacceptable. It's not just health problems, it's equality. It's a woman's disease, and I'm not sure the situation would be like this if it was a male disease. Women's pain is often reduced, and periods are described as normal for women to suffer. [[The president calls.]] This can last for almost half of the time a woman suffers from bleeding for 40 years. This is a significant decline in quality of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u92	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. I'd like to agree with what's been said, that it's a very high percentage of women in Iceland. As happy as I am about to be treated by people of the seriousness of their illness, I think it is very important that the minister listens to what was presented at the March 8, so I know that his assistant was attending that conference, the stress of the good staff that is taking place in this patient group. It has not been placed enough money or enough human force to care for the large number of women who suffer from the disease. This has a profound effect on the quality of life of women. I know it can be difficult to identify this condition, but it is therefore so important to ensure that health - care professionals and school staff are informed of the symptoms and that this is one of the things men are considering when women with symptoms enter the health system. I want to add one question to the highest level. Minister. Now I understand that in the next five years' financial program, the addition to the health system is about 20%. In that room, there is a new U.S. Hospital. Has the Minister secured funds for the work he went through here? Has he provided enough money to add the hundreds of services if not thousands of women who have problems with their disease in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the discussion. As discussed in the discussion, I feel that health care is equal to everyone. It should be equal to everyone, and this should not be different service to gender. That's absolutely essential. That's why I feel that this is an important discussion. In some respects, school was lacking. As I said in my first talk, it is very important to increase education in the public schools, but especially in health professionals, to ensure both better understanding of the disease than also better and more early analysis, just to make sure that women are well treated. In the face of intense stress in specialized employees, I agree, but in recent years, the number of those who have been trained has increased, although this is certainly not a large group. I believe it is important to focus on teamwork and that there are larger teams who are aware of their disease and patient service. Similarly, I think this new telephone and email service is an important input. About the money that lays. At the end of the question, I have to say that this is, of course, part of the work of the Land Hospital and the Health Organization. We're supposed to keep stressing it. But this is not so much money that we necessarily see evidence of them in a financial program, which is a rather wide budget of money. [[The president calls.]] But it's going to come up with more money when it's time to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u94	A respectable president. The question I'm now pointing to the highest. The health minister woke up at the exact same meeting I mentioned earlier, i.e. at a meeting of women with endome trizotic status within the medical system, held on March 8, where the service of the Land Hospital to girls under 18 years of age in search of women for women's diseases was hard to deal with because these were children and went to the Children's Hospital would simply not be able to find the services being performed in the Women's Department. These girls are referred to in the Women's Department, or even employees do not seem to realize that there is a reason to refer to them. I considered it a reason to take this up specifically to a minister and to find clear answers to whether it might be possible that it would not be certain that he is a specialist at the Children's Hospital when it comes to women's diseases. Girls in Iceland usually start their puberty from 9◯16 years of age. It is most common for bleeding to start at 11◯13 years of age. Some girls are even younger, eight, when they start bleeding, but others do not start until 16 years of age. We also have data from a 2006 mutual study that shows that 35% of Icelandic girls had had sex before they were 15 years old, but the lowest rate was in Norway. It also states that the youngest age group was the one with most partners, who similarly increased the likelihood of various diseases. A land surgeon's report on the health of young people aged 14◯23 said that if they were sexually healthy young, they would be viewed from chlamydia, genital warts, childbearing, and abortion, and compared with comparable factors in the North countries, the comparison would be against us. Also, it seems to some extent that our children are not being careful enough, but there is another question I intend to ask the minister later today,. I noticed in the minister's answer when it came to the entrosy that he specifically mentioned the Women's Department. However, he did not speak of the services rendered at the Children's Hospital. I also noticed that a brochure published by the surgeon on the subject of sexual behavior was not referred to as the kind of service that is particularly thought - of for children. In Iceland, individuals are considered to be children until they are 18. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u95	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir has addressed to me a verbal request for services due to women's diseases that affect girls under 18 years of age. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The starter for bringing up a matter of service to children, but that subject is always a particularly important subject for discussion. Like what? A senator traced his speech first, asking how the service of the Land Hospital with girls under 18 years of age may be performed by women's diseases. Second, the question is, Does a minister feel that this service is adequate? The hospital has explained to me how the procedure is performed regarding the services of girls under 18 years of age who seek it for the sake of gynaecological diseases. In short, the service of the Land Hospital to this particular group is as follows: If known in advance, i.e. before a girl under the age of 18 comes to the hospital, the problem needs to be treated by a gynecologist, such as through emergency procedures, medical doctors, or other specialists outside the hospital, the girl will come straight to the emergency room or to the Women's Hospital walk department, depending on the urgency of the problem. Girls with abdominal pain of uncertain origin come to the child's emergency room, and children's emergency centres are looking for women's opinion as appropriate. All pregnant girls under the age of 18 come straight to the women's ward. As I explained in my answer to the question of why. For example, during the past few years, the National Centers for Health Care System services to women with endometrial disease has been progressive in managing better care and in increasing service to that patient group, including the U.S.A. with increasing number of professional groups treating women with health problems, i.e. Endometrial migration Then I also explained in my answer to that request the importance of increased knowledge about endometrial migration to teenage girls, parents, and health care professionals. I refer back to the suggestions or tips presented in a report sent by a working group who was assigned to work on a full reexamination of law No. 25/1975, on advice and instruction about sex and pregnancy and abortion and sterilization procedures, and the importance of improving sexual education and information to young and school students. The second part of the query question anyway. Whether the health - care minister considers the service of the Land Hospital to girls under 18 years of age who seek it for women's diseases is sufficient. For such services as other services within the medical system, it must be said that even if a service is good, it can always be better, and in some cases it can certainly be added. As shown in my reply to a previous inquiry about the services of women with endometrial disease, there have been improvements in the Women's Department services, preparing for more teamwork at the time. I believe we should encourage them to develop and make sure they reach children under 18 years of age. I believe, however, that the National Hospital's manner of working is good, and the opinion of a surgeon is in harmony with my opinion. I believe we're on the right track, but I can readily agree with that. Captain, we're supposed to do better. It is important when looking at health - care and services, whether in the hospital or in other health - care systems, that we ensure the availability of the sexes and that women's diseases are made high below the head and information as well as education is being done on the other side of the health system. I thank you for your good inquiry, and I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u96	Mr. President. They separate from a child and suddenly become an 18 - year - old, but when it comes to disease, it is often a threshold. It's hard to know how well we're involved in this in health care. Somehow it takes more flexibility, so there's not such a clear understanding. I'd like to mention and agree with what has been said here on the importance of improving the service of the Land Hospital, but I can't do this to mention health care at high school and remind you that today, May 15, has been exactly five years since the General Assembly agreed to a hearing proposal to improve health and better health care and to improve the health of young people 14◯23 years ago. I want to challenge the highest. Ministers to study the subject of the motion and report and take the initiative to have this fine interpretation carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u97	Mr. President. I have to agree with my sister earlier about that report and this synonym and what is underneath. You see, there's that right there between us. The children have their own bodies, so generally, and should respect them even if they are not 18 years old. Of course, our parents'role as our guardians, and we should help them to become acquainted with everything that belongs to the sex - health world, which gives them that freedom. It is also important to honor it when young girls specifically check the Women's Department at Land Hospital, and when children enter the children's wards to guide them in the right direction. Education and prevention are very important in these and other matters. I have to agree with what was said about high school health care and that nurses are in all high schools and elementary schools, of course, that is of utmost importance and are often crucial to the sexual health of young people, girls and boys. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u98	A respectable president. As far as I could hear, the minister in his reply was confirming what was presented at the seminar. The story that was told there, but because I've been doing this inquiry a while ago and the meeting was reminded me that she was told so that a girl would bring just unexplained pain into the children's hospital and got there, as it were, a morphine shot to what was tested as a test. This was then associated with the girl's being diagnosed with endome trizos. Although I agree with what has been presented in the discussion on the importance of the conclusion that the General Council agreed and the importance of health care in high school, I think that there must be a part of the team thought the Minister was talking about, that men don't attach themselves to the individual branches, or what we call the Children's Hospital, but that experts where they need to be employed. In this case, we're talking about girls, but boys, too, that we're the majority of them before they're 18. We also have sex - healthy numbers, how young Icelanders are when they have sex for the first time. We also see the figures that I know the Minister has been reacting, and we're going to discuss here later today, that face sexually transmitted diseases, such as chlamydia and genital warts, which are what is most common in this country compared to other northern countries. This simply requires that the minister be very comfortable with the whole process and whether he can, in effect, claim that it's so good, not that I intend to blame the Land Hospital on this, but just how we treat children and youths in the whole health system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u99	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion and agree with them. Similarly, members of the body of elders who have discussed the importance of sticking to our ministry, and we provide a fine and consistent service according to whether patients are children under 18 years of age or adults. I think the importance of increasing teamwork when it comes to treating and accepting patients, whether at the Land Hospital or at other levels of health care care, health care, or other health care institutions on the land, increases the likelihood that the patient will receive a broader basis and may be more traditional to consult other health institutions or clinics if so. The good news is, although we do not know that nothing is perfect and that it is possible to say that the Land Hospital is in place that the child's hospital, the League, is next door to the Women's Department, and in between. It gives at least every chance to expand cooperation there, and there is good reason to encourage it. I trust this discussion here at the Council will help to draw attention to the matter and the need. I reiterate what I said in my first talk that I think instruction and information are very important in increasing consciousness and awareness of this interaction when it comes to children under 18 years of age. We are to accept the proposals of the Reimbursement Group into that work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u100	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. HCP on what action the Minister intends to take to address the trend that the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, especially syphilis and gonorrhea, but also HIV, have increased. Since the start of my reign of Congress, I have started with a particular interval of discussions about sexual behavior and sexual health among children in Iceland and young people, considering that this situation has generally not been good in comparison with other nations. That is why I was very concerned to see it from data published recently that it seems that the rate of certain sexually transmitted diseases is growing even further and that we have not been particularly aggressive about the sex disorders most common in this region. For a list of some facts about Iceland, please consult the surgeon's 2009 brochure. First, the sooner people start having sex, the more likely serious consequences such as sexually transmitted disease, pregnancy, and abortion are to be observed. It infects nine individuals 19 years of age and younger of chlamydia each week. It is less than one month of HIV/AIDS. There is no cure in front of you, and most of those diagnosed with infection are at 25-◯29 years of age. Some sexually transmitted diseases follow the person all his life. Then we are now getting the information that the frequencies seem to be increasing. In response to a written request to the highest. I compiled information from the health - care minister, e.g. about the rate of chlamydia in 15 to 19 years per 10,000 people. It shows that the frequency appears to have dropped somewhat in 2014 but has increased back in 2015 and 2016. We were hoping to deal with genital warts with vaccinations, but even there we see a slight increase. Then there are reported reports of gonorrhea and syphilis, which were relatively rare here, but they seem to be increasing. So I think it's very important to hear from the Minister. What action does he intend to take to deal with the trend I have discussed? I understand there's a committee that's about to come back in the near future, but it's very urgent. V.E.G. The minister said that such a large number of cases are difficult to make earmarks for certain projects, but here the minister simply needs to answer whether he intends to make earmarks in order to follow the proposed suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u101	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir has directed to me the following sex disorders inquiry: What action would a minister take to deal with the trend that the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, especially syphilis and gonorrhea, but also HIV, has increased? This is an important request. I'm honored to be able to answer it. Last December, the Ministry of Health received a memo from a pathologist regarding the increase in sexually transmitted diseases or the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases in Iceland. This memo noted that the increase was not unique in this country but, unfortunately, is showing information from other Western countries. Then it came to the notes that a psychiatrist felt that public action would be taken to reverse this trend. He added the cooperation of the Ministry of Health and the Surgeons with the medical system, with the school system, and with various subversive organizations. At the same time, a pathologist suggested that a team be formed to shape and implement official measures aimed at preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases in this country. To cope with the development of the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases in this country, a health - care minister set up a team appointed on March 13. The team is designed to provide suggestions on how to cope with the spread of sexually transmitted diseases in this country. The population primarily stresses actions against HIV, syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia. Then the group will call for advice from various providers, such as the 78 organizations, HIV-Island, the representatives of the project Mrs. Ragnheur - an injury to health care professionals, sociologists, sexists, as well as other people with experience and knowledge in this field. It is hoped that the work force will submit its proposals in the autumn months. It may be that a disease - control doctor has already cooperated with the 78 organizations and more grass - based organizations. I have high expectations for the suggestions of the Surgeon Group. But in addition to his staff, the head of the infectious clinic and the National Hospital skin and sexually transmitted disease department, as well as the government's representatives and the Surgeon's representative. Following the motion of the group, the proposals for the management of the Ministry will be taken into account with the aim of implementing them after the incident, after the cost assessment. So I react to a inquiry or encouragement by then. Now, I agree that we should do our best to finance these suggestions when they come out, of course, in advance of what they are. But we do know that the basic and key work of strengthening sex education and information to the public, especially in schools, is related to the answers and discussions in previous inquirys here, that this is part of the proposed workgroup for review of law no. 25/1975. In addition, I would like to point out the happy developments that have occurred in the past few months, that, following changes and funding in health care, especially in the capital area, we see an increase in the availability of individuals to health care. I think health care is a very important mail in this struggle and information supply. At least there is a positive situation that can be directed to some extent. Thank you for asking, and look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u102	Mr. President. I appreciate the inquiry, and I think it's very important. I'm glad to hear what's going on in the grandest case. Health Minister, to consider how health care can be better maintained, especially for young people, in Iceland. As it has been inserted, the number has even been changed. the incidence of chlamydia infections increased. I'd like to promote the viewpoint that I think it's very important that we change our attitude among young people as to sexual health. In the case of chlamydia, it is actually presented as the so - called Reykjavíkurhandhand band, i.e. To have chlamydia. It describes a casual view of the serious illness. Question of action that can be taken immediately: Is it not advisable to give free access to condoms at all clinics, at high schools, and elsewhere where young people can approach that important method of contraception? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u103	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Foreman and chief. Minister for today's discussion, which is not only under this program but also by others. That is clearly a question of education and early intervention in the case of sexually transmitted diseases in young people. While health care has an important role, remember that these young women and men, who are also doctors of Mom and Dad. This is not necessarily the person who wants to meet to discuss sexually transmitted diseases or sexual health in general. That is why, elsewhere in the North countries, special young people have been introduced into the service of young people since the age of 14◯23. That's what the General agreed that should come up here for an experiment five years ago. I'd like to agree with that by now. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Sunna Ævarsdóttir that it is very important that condoms be free of charge. That is a key to the battle against sexually transmitted diseases. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if the chlamydia test used in health care is simply too expensive for those who come to take it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u104	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers and members of my group for the discussion and their comments. It's absolutely clear that we have some kind of need to change our attitude here, too. We need to improve our health care, but we also need to adjust our attitude. It simply cannot be acceptable that after a report from the surgeon in 2009, there is still talk of sexually transmitted diseases, such as chlamydia and genital warts, in contrast with the Norwegian states. It is also noted that pornography is the most common subject for young boys. The use of hormonal contraceptives is mentioned here in the Norwegian country. Poor emergency contraception is next, and it seems only if you are generally not sure how to use the condom. We have already seen big public health projects, such as alcohol or tobacco abuse or other drug abuse by young people, that we have been able to change our behavior, we have been able to change our attitude. It has to be done here, it's totally obvious. We know what has to be done, so the minister is now asking his staff to submit as soon as possible, I think they're familiar with the project, and he goes in order to secure funds to follow through with them. He has full support in the conference hall, for the effects of these diseases can be profound. We simply should not accept such statistics, whether with the most common or with the diseases that have so far been relatively uncommon, that their frequency is growing as though we have been missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u105	A respectable president. I thank you for your excellent discussion and encouragement. I agree specifically with what. The leader that, of course, we are not to accept numbers that show that we are the followers of others. And, in fact, when it comes to health and disease, we are always to pursue a good course. We're supposed to be high on prevention and public health over our heads. Yet, it is as if we know from other public health projects that they never end. It's a constant battle. Especially when it comes to bringing attention to problems, increasing consciousness, it is a constant struggle, and it needs to work over and over again. That is why I emphasize that the task force appointed on March 13 will meet as soon as possible. It is important for me to get the results of the task force before we take any further action, and then hopefully we will be ready to take their authority at the time of their arrival. Right about what's wrong. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir mentioned regarding health care care care care needs, we've been focusing on a particular point, and I'd like to highlight the increase in team work on the health care providers that benefit young women and their access to appropriate health care facilities, access to nurses and health care professionals, etc. That certainly does improve. I thank you for your excellent discussion, important inquiry, and expect us to hear more in this future area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u106	President. During the fall election, groups were asked about anticancer treatments and the situation that cancer patients would not receive the best medicines at any given time. Then the president of Bjarts made a very clear answer: It will not happen on the watch of Bears the future that cancer patients will not receive the best medicines available. That's what the current Supreme Court said. A health minister then, in the process of an election. At the top. During an unprepared question period in February, a minister spoke about these words, but now I ask the highest. Minister, because time passes, if the government's promise since February has been raised that money would be given to buy new chemotherapy. I'm worried about you. V.E.G. Ministers are beginning to speak in a somewhat different way now than he did in the event of an election. A few days ago, April 29, he spoke of the group of paintings as being complex, of setting priorities, etc., all familiar, but I ask the minister because his words were quite clear in the event of an election: how much money will be spent on new chemotherapy this year? How many patients will be able to receive new anticancer medicines and when will the medicines be available? This may be the case with people who are in a state of distress, people who have no time to lose. It is so simple that it does not have time to wait for the minister to prioritize the case or guide it into further policies, such as in the large and extensive language class. Minister up front. His words were clear in the process of election, and in February the promises were also clear, providing funds for new chemotherapy to ensure exactly that cancer patients receive the best medicines at any given time, like the highest level. A minister stressed the importance of an election, and the one standing here agrees with him on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u107	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has directed to me a request for a new anticancer medicinal product and has testified to our answer in a Bright Future in the pursuit of a drug access campaign. I can live with the will that was shown in response, that patients should have access to the best pharmaceuticals at any given time. Of course, we know that all health services and medications depend on funding and funding from the General Assembly, but the basic convention in Iceland is that we provide access to drugs in harmony with what happens to the nations around us. The last few years, after the collapse, have not been able to keep it down, but happily, it has been successful to make up that tail. Hv. A senator asks: Have the promises of the government been fulfilled since February of this year for money to be given to buy new chemotherapy? One of my first works as health minister was meeting on January 19th. with the head of a pharmaceutical commission, the director of a Land Hospital and a representative of Iceland's Medical Insurance, where these members pointed to a tight supply of pharmaceuticals in the budget of the year. They do not allow room for the induction of new medicines, either S-labelled or systemic medicinal products. Following that meeting, I took up the matter in the government that at his meeting on January 20, agreed to hide financial and economic ministers, in agreement with the health minister, to ensure additional funds for the seminary and to be their project. evaluating the financial needs and the scope of the problem. Since the administration of this government's approval, this project has been carried out and to make a long history of the short - range potential of the head of the pharmaceutical committee at my meeting on April 19 of this year. to discuss the proposals and financial documents of the Committee due to the introduction of new drugs in connection with the government's approval. The plan introduced by the head of the Committee of Medicine was within the framework of the budget that I discussed in the government in January that needed to be added, and the government's approval went on and made an effort to meet. There are some new anticancer treatments that have been proposed, but in general there are no more medications to treat other diseases that have been placed on the top of the Land Hospital. This plan was considered by the head of the Committee of Drug Remuneration and the Management Board, which the Ministry can support. The Ministry considers it acceptable to continue working with the National Hospital to establish priorities for the induction of new drugs. One thing that has taken the matter to the point is that Hospitals' contracts for discount prices have taken time, but it is important to achieve a reduction of these medications so that it is acceptable to the pharmaceutical company to accept a pay cut or a permit. Other than that, the Committee is not ineligible and should be able to take into account the requirements of the applications in the Member States, taking into account the prior list of medicinal products established by the hospital in agreements with the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH). For the second part of the query question date. Therefore, a senator, about how much money will be spent on new chemotherapy this year, is to say that the final amount is not available since the contracts of the primary products have not been established, and there is some understandable uncertainty about the number of patients who will need these drugs. I have publicly said that it is not safe to estimate that there may be another billion in the event that needs to be improved, but it may be difficult to say accurately. Third, ask why. The senator will have the opportunity to receive new chemotherapy and when it will be available. That in itself is the same answer as to point two, i.e. There is some uncertainty about the number of patients who are going to need these medicines, as well as the lack of data on discount prices in the purchases of these medicines, we do not know the ultimate cost. I thank you for an important request to explain again a complex case party that is very important, especially for the waiting patients, and to look forward to a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u108	A respectable president. I thank the advisor and the highest. Minister. It is good to hear that only in this series of languages has there been a need for more than ever to do better. I just wanted to get involved in this discussion because to me this is a matter of principle and vision of health matters in general. I feel like we're in some kind of Band-Aid arrangement, that all we need is to look up the financial programme we're considering, instead of discussing the basic needs, the money that we need, and if we are ready for the income that is necessary to handle these issues as we would like. Health services depend on funding and funding from the General Assembly. Minister before. That is true, but the funding of the Generals depends on the willingness to make more money. I have found it tragic that we are going to take directly the tax policy of the right government that sat here in the last place instead of using socialism on tax returns to make sure that we have the right to restore expenses for health care. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u109	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, Varsity for following this case as closely as you can see. I also thank the Minister for his answers as far as they can. I'd really like to add a little bit here, because although I understand that it can be difficult for the Minister to inform the prices in the absence of contracts, it would be nice to get answers to the possibility of high fluctuations in the rate of analyses between years. That would be one of the things we truly need to consider. I also want to point out that as important as the medication is - and we simply have to make sure that the funds are obtained and patients are being treated with the necessary medication - there are also other factors to be added to the cancer patients. I mention, for example, the operation of the light, which deals with the rehabilitation of cancer patients who have truly needed more money. [[The president calls.]] Even if we have tried to improve, we need to look at this whole thing and see how we can support and help with this terrible disease, cancer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u110	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I just want to start by saying about the pharmaceutical price that it should be helpful to do so. As was the case after a collapse when there was no money at the Land Hospital - it was also before a crash - he had to choose between paying and buying drugs. Now that we are walking, this should help us to do so. The important thing is to make it easier for the National Hospital to participate in exports in the North countries, with the large number of spades in the North countries. It's very difficult to take a secretary's will for the task. It's about six months and the medication's not here. There's no money left, even though there's a priority there somewhere. This reminds me of the other bad scene in the pharmaceuticals, the quota. When money for these drugs is finished, no more patients will receive it that year. [[The president calls.]] Those who are so unfortunate as to need a second half of a year don't get it. The situation may now be that those who need chemotherapy for the previous part of the year will also not get sick in the middle of the year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u111	The president reminds the senators to respect speech class. The estimate is about 20 seconds ahead. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir struck now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u112	I appreciate that, Mr. President, and thank you for the discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. I want to agree that the will is not enough. The words of the Minister of the election were very clear. That's not gonna happen on Carer's Eve shift. It's not gonna happen. But now it's gone as far as possible, the will is clear, and so on. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to speak plainly. What's going on? The health minister Óttarr Proppé to those who are still waiting, to the woman I spoke to earlier? She's on her way to a hospital tomorrow and says, "I'm so tired of waiting. In fact, it would be better to know about when we should expect something. It is understandable that there are some uncertainties, that there is need to be a management committee, and that there is no question about the exact amount of money, exact time, and some other billion, etc. V.E.G. However, a minister has to answer clearly: When will these medications be available? What can be expected of people who are now suffering from cancer and who could enjoy these drugs if they had arrived? Should people wait for weeks or months, or should they accept that time is not enough? That it's too long? It is of utmost importance for people in this situation to have clear answers because when people have serious health problems, most of the worst is the uncertainty of what is being offered to cancer patients right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u113	A respectable president. It is clear that my first talk made it clear that the CHMP is looking at the induction of new medicines. This has been delayed in some way because contracts have been asked for purchases and discounts. The minister does not personally make decisions about the induction of certain medicinal products; it is a professional decision made by specialists at the Land Hospital when it comes to putting new medications on the priorities list. Experience and induction are seen in neighboring countries, especially in the North countries. Then, according to all these mails, the Subcommittee will make a final decision. In my first speech, I return to my words. Although last year's dollar and went well, the cost of the drug force was 18% higher than the budget last year, and that is the situation that we faced in January immediately, when I took office. This was followed by an approved government as early as January. We expect that in the financial program now available for the council, and we are responsible for the rise of the pharmaceutical and auxiliary teams, if I remember correctly about 18.5% in 2018, between the years, and well over 40% - I don't have the numbers in front of me - in the period. We are certainly looking to the possibility that is available when it comes to drugs. With respect to the common invitation, I have previously said in this chair that I work with my colleagues in the North countries as many of my predecessors in the health minister's office have also done. [[The president calls.]] I allow myself to have a balanced optimism that looks to a joint publisher. I'm trying not to break any record. [[V.E.G. A health minister's success was assessed by mentioning his lack of appreciation.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u114	President. V.E.G. The minister of social and equality, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, was formerly active at the National Association of Employment, but the organization and perhaps especially the organization of the industry have been tireless to refer to organizational laws and building regulations when discussing the problem of housing. Actually, I was hoping to say that the highest. A minister would have reexamined this line of propaganda when he had taken the seat of a minister. That's why it surprised me when he recorded this theme, if the industry's organization and industry had much to do with the problem of large housing problems, as well as excessive housing prices, or problems with those materials in Iceland. This was shown during unsubstantiated question time and in response to the highest degree. Minister 27th of March. This was an answer to the question under consideration here, but my question to the minister is: What change does a minister consider is needed for planning and building arrangements to meet extensive housing problems, as indicated by the reply of a minister in the unprepared inquiry at March 27? Now it is, at the highest. A minister for information that a new building rule went into effect in 2012. That structure, however, has taken several adjustments since then, including initially, the demand for increased energy recovery and flexible development, and there were further changes, but fortunately, governments were able to withstand attacks, repeated attacks, in order to reduce demand for bioavailability for all. I'd like to say that there's an absolute possibility that the construction cost at solid prices has not been raised anything by a new building order. He's about 300 yards away. K. in the square, it has been since 2012, from year to year, and has not changed in spite of the changed building regulations. However, the real estate prices have been rising repeatedly. The complex sciences that are sometimes called economics are likely to explain. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain to me how he feels the problem lies in planning laws and building regulations and to ask him to back it up. It is unacceptable that the minister of this legal class, the social affairs, continue to use the slogans of the industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. It is my pleasure to explain my focus and emphasis from the government - trained work force to help solve the housing problem we now face. For example, when you look at construction regulations and organizational laws, you will focus primarily on how to speed up the preparation period, simplify it in some way, especially with increasing emphasis on structure, which is required to obtain a new construction permit. This is a known case, and particularly in a structured project, that is, at the start of the first major costs, i.e. It is often a local purchase, even a type of preconceived building, so it is quite high for the personal property to be used under construction. As a result, it is clear that the initial cost may be considerable and costs may also be considerable if the implementation or preparation of the procedure is greatly delayed. The members of the group, which come from four recruitments plus rural communities, agree that this is a real problem, and therefore we need to consider how to simplify planning by aiming to shorten the preparatory period without violating national or national lawsuits or by those who may have any interest in projects and without affecting the quality of the buildings being built on. In the context of this, our cousins of the Norwegians have recently made similar adjustments in their organizational legislation, with the same objective, to shorten a significant preparatory period, and with fine results. I think we can do a good job of shortening the time of the construction. All of us know that the cost of the building ends with the buyer. As for the building principle, I have also made it clear that there we look at how we can make the building order more flexible, how to look for compartments and other factors without violating the primary targets of bioavailability for everyone, which I think we all agree to be guided. Of course, we can also look to the experience of building a minibar, smaller units, such as. a student's spray, and what we can learn from this in possible translocation of small apartments for young people with their first buyers in mind. This is still something we can learn from our neighbors, e.g. correspondent in Norway, where the same discussion has existed. There is always an increased demand for construction regulations at expense. When space is growing, it is certainly at the total cost of an apartment. Now I don't know the underlying factors for the cost. A senator refers to, but it should be noted that there are some factors that affect the construction cost of every square inch, including the number of square feet and the kind of apartments being built. The average cost of square meters may not be much different, but e.g. For example, the average size of apartments that have been based on recent stages has increased very rapidly, holding back the average cost of each square meter, meaning that it will be much more expensive. Since then, gang development and other services have worked with us, resulting in a considerable high cost of new apartments imported. This will be considered in the work group referred to as a way to simplify and shorten the planning of projects, how we can sharpen the building order further, including the rest of the procedure. Based on the experience of our neighbors, in order to reduce construction costs and to make it easier for young people and their first buyers to get started in a real estate market, whether to buy or rent a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u116	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and I did not resist the temptation to get involved with it just because I had a conversation with a boy. Svavarsdóttir In 2012, SAvavar's crisis of the construction and planning principle and the major changes to the legal and regulations of the environment. Then the market, or construction, was almost bottom frozen. I welcome the highest. Secretary says here. It's important to review the organizational procedures. I really hope that soon we're going to see a suggestion as far as it goes. This, however, is a task that is adopted by a minister other than the Supreme Minister. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, it's under the Environment and Resource Minister. However, what the minister could bring and has proclaimed to bring are laws involved in the housing plans of the local community. There, I would like to encourage the Minister to look into the models in Britain on how to link the housing plans to specific areas or duties of rural society to ensure a sufficient supply of land for the projected population development in relevant rural areas, and not just areas, but a wide range of weights, on densely populated areas and on the edge of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u117	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. His answer is primarily an interest in speeding up the preparation period, as I understand him. It would be interesting to learn how much we are speaking directly about the implementation of the law itself and how much we are talking about the changes in delays, which are naturally considerable in the long organizational process, as it were. In a matter of what. paritaprevir In some respects, the Eygló of Harðardóttir was found to be more populated than to build on uninhabited areas, especially because of its existing interests. At the same time, however, it serves specific goals, especially climate targets and such factors, so it is necessary to weigh them and evaluate them. I find it very important to maintain a building order, although it is probably the Regulation in the Icelandic Regulation that takes most of the space, most of the articles and most pages, etc., it is primarily designed to promote quality. For ordinary people, this is the life savings of the apartment complex. So we need to be very careful not to accept the demands, since they are really requirements for all the public public being made available to the public. At the same time, the lawgiver spoke very clearly about our not being allowed to abandon the requirement for absolute design and access to everyone. I'm especially happy to be the highest. A minister of social matters and, therefore, disability is on my side in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm telling you that he's talking more clearly about flexible compartments, since they've been bended considerably by the changes made since 2012. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u118	Madam President. I appreciate this fine discussion. Of course, I am stressing the need that has been called on regarding building regulations and planning laws, which, of course, aren't under my department and I'm not going to answer here to the group involved in that work. This is a group of four advisers, along with rural communities, who are making mutual suggestions on what might be under attack, but their main objective has been this; how can we work against the great housing problem and the great lack of housing now, and with young people and young ones and with the first purchase or rent in particular? That's a good tip for a dog. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir, and is involved in my Ministry's operations on local housing programmes and on how to sharpen supplies and, of course, the important things, to ensure a sufficient supply and a sufficient supply of extended housing. With regard to organizational legislation, of course. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter came in, there are a number of factors that can be seen, and I know the group will no doubt look at. There are deadlines for charges, especially when it is time to simplify the changes, when major projects are being carried out, when minor changes could be helped, to break units into more fixed numbers, possible minor repairs and other activities, which would be to speed up the process for the project, but more likely to reduce the amount of pressure on the system now and to prevent all tasks, large and small. That's something like, for example. Witches have been examined. But I repeat again and again that I think that we all agree that it must always be guided, but, of course, it must be looked at at the expense of regulations, but on the availability of all or universal designs, I think we all agree wholeheartedly and do not stand up to counter them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u119	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on the cooperation of the police in the capital area and the Ministry of Health for the search for missing children set up in November 2014. The media essays: Risk factors for youths who run away from home, by Unnur Kristín Sigurgeirsdóttir and Bryndís Hall of 2014, revealed that home conditions, drug abuse, and school experience are the main factors in the risk of children stealing from home. The most common risk behavior among the children who were lost was drug abuse and mental and behavioural problems; however, the art was by no means exhaustive. It would often be so that children who strip away from home would have been saved in places of risk behavior and would be very much at odds with being saved and not want to be treated but in the environment where consumption is available. What I would like to ask is the result of this experiment. As I went through, we are here dealing with children who are having a very difficult time, often living even under difficult circumstances, taking drugs, having trouble at school. The Onbog children's letter to the police in the capital area encouraged the continuation of their assignment. It showed that the project was urgent and that it had yielded significant results. When a missing youth was reported, police response time could have been cut short; it would have less to describe them in the media, to be found earlier, and to be shorter in situations that would be dangerous to them, especially in the case of adults, dangerous individuals. I also noted that the organization believed that the project also led to a shift of attitudes within the police in regard to children and youths with high - risk behaviors and that parents, guardians, and children themselves had increased confidence in the police and felt that their situation and problems were handled. It would be serious to think that children and minors would be without permission. The recent police criminal statistics since March 2017 state that the police have never received further requests for missing youths since the beginning of the project, in November 2014. A total of 32 requests were received, compared to 19 requests in February. The increase was 53% in the year, with an average of two years preceding. I'm very interested in hearing from the Minister how he values the experience of this experiment and what his plans and the police are, and the prospective juvenile provincial authorities too. Minister, the future of this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u120	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator in particular for this discussion. I think we can all agree on the seriousness and importance of this matter. It is heartwarming to learn that in short, experience with this experiment has been extremely good. My conversations with police officials in the capital area indicate that it will continue with the same ambition that marked the project over the years. This project was supported for two years, 2015 and 2016, about 10 million each year, by the Ministry of Health, is now funded by the police budget. Police sources indicate that in 2014, there will have been three deaths in this runaway group, but since the introduction of the project, no young person who has been found this way died. One police employee in the capital area has devoted himself completely to the project, even doing so. with MST agents during the period of support for the service system around the adolescent. That has even been true. I find that instead of leaving, if I remember correctly, about half of the children looking for this way to a treatment home, such as Studinga, is about or within a third of the day after the project began. Not only is it true that the moment of response is stronger, that children are found much sooner than before, but the resources around their children seem to be much better and stronger. Elbow children, that's what they are. A senator referred to his inquiry, has expressed deep satisfaction in the project, and has felt that it has yielded considerable benefits. Children's protection is also considered the project to be very good, and it emphasizes that there is a good communication between partners in the affairs of their children. Now it's time for police response to happen. I think it's about 20 minutes, on average, from the time children's protection send out a search request until the case has been recorded, a description of a child called out, and it's registered in police systems. As mentioned earlier, there is a special employee of the office who has dedicated himself to them and is quick to look for them. For the analysis of a number of children, more than 80 children were looking for each year for 2015 and 2016, or a total of 163. Of these, some 60 children were searched for the first time each year, and girls were only more than boys. The rest of the year 2017, including April and April, has been searched for 42 children and young men of which 21 were found for the first time, boys were 25 and girls 17. About 89% of the group are children 14◯17 years of age, while the youngest two children who were looking for during the period were 11 years of age. Search requests come around 24 hours a day, but most come up from midnight. The time of the loss of children varied from one hour to 13 days, during the extended period. The mean is approximately 31 hours, i.e. In most cases, children are reached out in just over 24 hours. Ten percent of the search requests apply to children outside the capital area, but, earlier, the project has been placed in place by the city police in Reykjavík and is expected to continue. The cost is now about 20 billion. K. This year, while the budget for 2017 is taken away from police operating expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u121	Madam President. Thank you. Speaker and minister for these answers. This is an extremely important and frightening case to think of how much of those underage children are looked for, less than 90%. That's an enormous figure. These children account for two thirds of girls, and the average age is about 15 years. If we're looking for a month, under 18 years, like 2015, and then a minister with new numbers, that's a huge number. It is important to expand this work. Each month, the most glorious search cost 450,500,000. The cost quickly rose. Therefore, I am deeply worried about this, given the financial resources the police call after, and a minister says it should be financed by the police, who is far too narrowly limited. [[The president calls.]] This matter may need to be compromised, as do so many others, though I now expect the police to react sooner than many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u122	A respectable president. I thank the Minister very much for the detailed answers to the search for missing children. It is a pleasure to learn that the results of this test project are good, and this has become a regular part of the operation and economic situation of the police in the capital area. However, a question can be asked, Can you expand this and look to see if there is a similar issue needed by the police in other parts of the country in search of missing children? As a minister passed through, and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir spoke of the same thing, important to find children as soon as possible, that they are not in situations that threaten their safety. The minister mentioned how serious this could be and when we did not have these options and what the frequency of children died. As the minister said, the Ministry of Health required the experiment to half the police, 10 million. It would be interesting to hear from the minister how he sees the financial resources he has made, whether or not he is going to take advantage of the new projects, which hopefully come into the program of action against violence. Is it going to further strengthen the MST team and make sure they do their work around the country, or do they go to other projects that the Minister considers important so that we can be more supportive to our most vulnerable individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u123	Madam President. I thank you again for this fine and important discussion. It is of enormous importance that these measures will continue to become a part of the police operation, and hopefully throughout the country, not only here in the capital area, although the nature of the case is the most important here. Experience with this has shown, and indeed, experience with other police and child - welfare activities, for example, when it comes to domestic violence, how important it is that this cooperation is strong and good at all times and how much good can be done by such cooperation. In both cases, the search for lost children has shown itself as well as the interests of children in domestic violence. This cooperation can bring tremendous and significant benefits. Hv. paritaprevir Harðardóttur Hardydó asks about the sum spent on this project in 2015-2016. Of course, we will consider ways in which we can improve our cooperation with these factors. Of course, it is only natural that, in time, it will become a part of the police operation and thereby financed by fixed donations to the office. However, especially in connection with the proposed government action program against violence, we should look to the way in which we can learn from the two projects mentioned here and how we can develop, for example. The cooperation between the police and the Children's Protection and other stakeholders. But again, I thank you for an interesting and useful discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u124	A respectable president. On the roof. 611 I directed a few queries to the highest level. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister for foster children and requested to include: for information on how many of them were and how many were in the family feed and fetuses in the non-related population. I also asked how high the proportion of foster children graduate from the 10th grade and how high school rates are closed, how many babies drop into the fetus every year, and what support they get from the government after the end of the pregnancy. The answer is very obvious, however, that we have 400 babies every year, of whom 1/3 of our relatives and 2/3 are not related, we seem to have very little information about how the children fare in the foetus and after the fetus. This is in line with the information I received at my time at a meeting with foster parents. They spoke of caring for very important assignments and building up children that for some reason they could no longer live with their parents. They called very much for increased support. When asked, e.g. whether foster children graduate from the 10th grade and how many of them complete high school tests that most of Iceland's children are doing, we simply don't have information about it. We also do not have public support information, according to these answers. It was one of those mentioned by foster parents that they had had many babies, and then after their children left their babies, 18 years of age or 20 years of age, as there is a possibility of extending to them, the children have no more to go to than their foster parents. The foster parents may have very many children who cannot go anywhere but to them. They try to do their very best, but it seems that they are not very concerned about how we can be more supportive with our children. It is very important that the minister responds to how he envisions to improve the quality of the fetus and to increase the follow-up and monitoring of the unborn. This is, and should be, our key strategy when it comes to caring for children who are no longer able to live in their homes. In other countries, it has been shown that whether the child has graduated from high school reveals so much about how that person will get his feet later in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If the percentage of children who do not graduate is very high, that certainly indicates that we need to get involved and do better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u125	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I just have to say the word. Senator. We know too little about this group. We collect too little information on how babies are involved in the developing foetus, how they end up in the womb, how school is conducted, etc. In fact, I think we need to take a closer look at how we're keeping these factors and the roles of the Children's Health and Children's Institutes at the time of counseling and aiding our communities in foster care. We have the nature of a matter under a very rigid frame when it comes to making a decision about fate, which, of course, is true and natural, to a serious matter, but our behavior seems to be considerably weaker and follow-up when it comes to the next steps for embryo-foetal development, monitoring and assessment of success in foster families and how children are doing in the future. It must be the key to all of this that we are keeping a close eye on and considering the progress of our children and how that decision to change their ways affects their environment. For the council there's a proposal for an action plan in the child - welfare field, which I expect to do. A senator and my predecessor are familiar with the situation. Many of these factors are being addressed, e.g. In what way to increase the number of foster parents, because there is no pay factor for the need for these measures to be greatly increased, however some kind of institution or home care of children has been reduced. It is therefore important to increase the number of qualified individuals interested in becoming foster parents. It is one of the projects in the programme to provide special financial support for this, but it is also to provide those who are already active in the system that foster parents have the potential to strengthen and strengthen their knowledge. During the next 12 months, preparation will be expected to begin until the advanced stage for foster parents who have completed their primary course. During the same period, courses for foster parents are also being prepared for children's specific difficulties in order to ensure proper support for children with different needs. There will also be special training courses for individuals interested in becoming eco-employers of children who have applied for international protection. Then, over the next 12 months, there will be an advisability assessment of whether or not to introduce a so - called treatment foetus into children's protection for children in Iceland. At the same time, they will also be examined for other useful methods to support children in foster homes, foster parents, and children's sexual parents. At the end of a temporary fetus, adjustment of the fetus can also be made. Also asks why. A senator as to how a minister intends to improve the follow-up and monitoring of foster children. It is proper to point out that the embryos are involved in cooperation between state and rural society. The Children's Protection Agency oversees foster care and conducts a course for foster parents and cares for permission groups, which are then the role of a child - protection committee who hires a child in the fetus to monitor the child's needs and to care for the child's condition and to ensure that the abortion arrangements achieves its purpose. It is also up to child - welfare committees and social services to provide support and parents and services after the end of foster care. However, there is a need for increased monitoring. To this end, I have already been made aware of the proposed changes to the Ministry on Special Control in the Ministry to enhance the Ministry's own monitoring programme, but I also declare myself ready to cooperate more closely with the local community on how we can achieve this development and, in particular, improve its quality and success across the country. In the fall months, the Ministry will then begin working on a new child - welfare program. [[The president calls.]] At this point, an idea is taken that further measures to improve the quality of the embryo and to ensure support and services to foster babies during the course of the foetus will be taken. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u126	A respectable president. I certainly hope the President is watching, this case involved in the Children's Protection Programme is in operation on the welfare committee these days. In my opinion, this is especially an important part of the strategy, the actions that are being considered to, improve, and strengthen foster parents in their assignments to make their children feel comfortable, and we can give them the best we can do. Critic research has shown us more fully how important it is for children to grow up under happy family conditions, and plan will certainly reflect this. Likewise, it is important to support foster parents in the often difficult work with children who have experienced many bad things and who have suffered severe traumas. That is why it is so important that after having been pregnant, we discern how the fetus is going. I'd also consider it a concern, and there are other numbers that are important to keep their arms up, if there's a lot of doubt about foster parents, if you've been trained, go through a course, if families come in with a lot of interest in the project, but risk for any reason. It must tell us that we do not really support these families. Similarly, it is very important to support your family's origin and make sure that there is no need for a permanent, temporary, or supportive abortion. I'm very happy to hear this emphasis from the Minister and to be glad we're going to improve our surveillance. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, there is reason to promote this, both when it comes to the social service referred to here but also to the work itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u127	Madam President. I want to thank you again. A senator's inquiry. I think we agree on the emphasis she has made. I thought it very thoughtful, coming new to this case recently, how little information, a small summary of how fetuses are brought, either temporarily or permanently, and, of course, a judgment against the system must have been determined. I feel that this reflects a lack of interest in the children's efforts and the lack of ambition that we really take in the results, which must be the key of this matter. This is an extremely serious intervention in the lives of children. It is a very dramatic decision that has been made, and likely for a greater reason, but the more important it is that we take pride in watching how our children are angry and how we can improve their resources, improve their training and education for foster parents, increase them, and so forth. It will be my job to start work on a new plan in child protection. Without a doubt, there will be one of the priorities of the programme for strengthening these measures, especially the monitoring and guidance of child - welfare authorities and the Children's Health Organization, as well as the evaluation of results and other factors. Thank you again for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u128	A respectable president. I ask about measures to combat violence against disabled children. We see an increased frequency of reports of violence. In a query I directed to the highest. Social and equal minister reports that there had been an increase in reports of violence during 2007-2016, especially reports of emotional and psychological violence. However, there is a lack of better information on the incidence of violence against disabled children. In view of the sensitivity of that group, the reason why I am making this statement is that although I believe that a new child - care program is being developed in many ways before the council, I had the hope that it would especially be there that violence against disabled children. As a result, it is sad to see that the words of a schooled child only occur once in the document but not in the text, and it also discusses what was done in 2016, not looking to the future and what we could do. The reason I mention this is because in a report on research that was developed in cooperation with the World Health Organization, it was found that disabled children are 3.2% more likely than innocent children to be exposed to any kind of violence. They are almost four times more likely than innocent children to become physically violent, and less than three times more likely to be sexually abused. These are striking numbers, and we don't see this in our reporting rates. It should be in the announcements, but it won't. These are international studies. Once we have compared ourselves with other countries again and again, the situation is certainly not better here at all. Children with developmental impairment appear to be at greatest risk on this study. There are also prominent children with hearing impairment. Children with developmental impairment are less than five times more likely to get sexually abused than innocent children. We know that we have prejudice, silence, discrimination against disabled children, and disabled people. That is a lack of knowledge of their circumstances. That's why it's called from the highest. Ministers that he will answer whether he is willing to encourage the committee to make certain adjustments in the programme of action to consider especially disabled children in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons who are being approved. [[The president calls.]] Then there are these striking numbers that I think are so important that we face and do everything we possibly can to prevent these things from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u129	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Eygló Harðardóttir queried. It's turning into a good conversation between us. A senator today with a third request in a row but all about very important matters. You're right. A senator's point of view is that foreign studies reveal an ever greater rate of violence against disabled children and that there is no reason to believe that this is the same but here, even though we do not see any reports in that beat. The work of the disabled is being done very much during these weeks, and the months are being reviewed on points of law. There are some of the issues that are to be treated at the council where the establishment of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons in law and conduct, a bill for the services of disabled persons with a great need for support that I have already recommended, a bill for social services and a management plan for the disabled. There is also the fact that we have already made a decision, and this is reflected in a new financial program, providing additional funding for the rights of disabled persons, a solution that has proved to be well - off, especially in matters such as this suspected violation of the rights of disabled persons, especially children, let alone when there is a potential for violence. In addition, there is a strategy that is beginning to work for a new child - protection programme, which hopefully takes place before the council during the next session. Most important, a newly signed anti-violence strategy that I recently signed along with three other advisers, i.e. Minister of Justice, Minister of Health and Education. In this as a matter of other monitoring, when it comes to the Ministry's surveillance, it is extremely important to promote this role in its activities. In it I refer again to a strategy for special surveillance within the Ministry to better distinguish between the role of the executive and the monitoring of decisions made within the Ministry itself, as well as the field of local members and other institutions of the Ministry. Preparation for the establishment of this Ministry Office is well under way, and I hope that it will be possible to pass through this fall. This is, once again, a group of paintings that we need to take much more seriously than we have done, especially through our child protection programmes, the resources found in the law on disabled persons. Although this emphasis is quite reflected in a new child - protection program, I agree with it. A senator who had no comment on the use of a welfare committee using the existing child - welfare programme to consider how to further strengthen resources when it comes to possible violence against disabled children. This is a very serious thing. This is our most vulnerable group, one we must have a rich obligation to care for in all places, especially when such serious matters are so serious. I thank you again and again for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u130	A respectable president. I thank you for the answers and for the discussion on this subject, violence against disabled children. In my opinion, it's particularly important that we discuss this here. We have recently come to realize the high risk of children with disabled and disabled people to the point of violence. I certainly hope that members of the welfare committee will consider whether or not we can add the action team to the strategy, not waiting for us to get a new team in, but to add it immediately. As we discussed earlier, police in the capital area have personally financed the search for missing children. This means that the minister may only have space within his own reach and may further increase the ministry to counteract violence against disabled children. I would especially like to remind you of the proposal of a collaborative committee on the orcs of disabled persons who should produce more specific procedures for the services provided. Is there anything there that might be possible? We've been doing things. We've been trying to promote the services of the Children's House. It is said that there needs to be a change in the legal environment and to strengthen the recovery under a children's house. There I hope that there will be a special service for disabled children. It is also positive that the plan is to further strengthen the right - men. If the minister is looking for further privileges, the police have been changing their ways when it comes to investigating a crime against disabled people. [[The president calls.]] I certainly don't think that I can afford extra funds so that they can be done better. [[The president calls.]] I would like to strongly encourage the Minister to consider that possibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u131	A respectable president. I thank you again for this fine discussion. The importance of this matter and how important it is that we do better in these matters will be emphasized later. I refer back to the instruments considered within the Ministry on promoting the role of the Ministry itself, in particular promoting the role of justice keepers, and increasing their numbers, as well as their training and knowledge of the seminaries, specific measures against violence, and attention especially to the status of disabled people. All of this is an enormous factor. Hv. A senator mentioned legislation on Children's House, a plan that has proved to be particularly effective and has become an international example. It has been our contribution into this environment, and much has been observed in our time and, indeed, still. It is true that there is an even greater need for legal support, and it may now be appropriate to engage in that type of work, especially in the context discussed here. It's a discussion we must want to continue. I sure hope so. The welfare committee will consider the matter in this light, but I can assure you of it. A member of the Parliament that this emphasis will be guided particularly by the shape of a new child protection programme as well as the plan to develop measures to prevent violence. I thank you again and again for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u132	Madam President. I'd like to tell you that I really like cats, but I've been afraid of dogs since I can remember. I'll have to, for example. a little tense when I'm out walking and facing dogs on fortunets with their owners, but usually it's so that the dog owners shorten the reins when they see my fearful hiccups. And that's the way it's supposed to be. It's about having only a few more rules but promoting more consideration in the community. I also discussed this in a recent discussion at the Assembly Hall about electric cigarettes. Have we ceased to plan for consideration in the community in all laws and regulations? I hope not. At least I'm not ready to give up my consideration. So I think that dogs can go for a walk through the streets of the city as long as they are taken into account those who fear them. Similarly, if I know and respect that many people fear animals or are allergic to them, I would prefer that dogs get to public places like coffees. What, then, do we do? Granted, it is easy to make rigid enough rules that leave no room for trouble. But I hope that we are not happy that there will always be an easy way to set rules that will simply be forbidden instead of trying to deal with the color of different people's needs. Why should we not be successful in setting rules with freedom, reason, and consideration, all in one place, to guide? With that in mind, I spoke for a proposal that was approved in the mayor two years ago, which is as follows, with the permission of the president: The European Commission agrees to direct them to the government's recommendations to clear up the rules on the method of loyalty and food so that it is the preferred option for the administration of animal rules, such as at coffees, restaurants, gymnasiums, meeting places, etc. It is a matter of justice that rural society has room for the owners of such places to allow animal survival if they wish. This appeal from the mayor of Reykjavík to the state has been by the Environment Ministry since then, or less than two years ago. So now I'm very excited to hear from the Ministry Department's new secretary what is being heard about this matter. It is my sincere hope that the government will be well taken away from the central management of these regulations and trust rural society to set rules on how best to meet different needs and viewpoints against the blessed animals in our environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u133	A respectable president. I want to thank the captain of a very interesting question about this matter. First, I'm going to follow a principle of loyalty, which, of course, has come to my age. How important it is to review many of its principles! A minor update that will be taken and modified as a matter of minor disagreements was presented on the Ministry's Web of March 24. The rules apply to places allowed to allow dogs, cats or other animals to enter include Reinforced slightly, and decisions related to the transfer from the Ministry to the Health Committee. These changes are scheduled for the next month. The next step at the Ministry is to reevaluate the entire animal consumption regulations in public places. There is a requirement that the package leaflet III of the Regulation, which is about house space and surfaces that must not be allowed to enter pets, be reviewed. The mayor of Reykjavík for the auto-demand right of a community on animal survival in public places has been discussed in the Ministry and has been sent for review to the EEA, the National Health Monitoring Association in Iceland, the European Community's Office, the Medical Association of Iceland, and the Astma and the AIDS Union of Iceland. In this discourse, they are directed to the government to clear up the rules of loyalty so that each unit is self-imposed how it chooses to set the rules on where it is allowed to have animals, as the premonition went through the past. In a manner of loyalty, the building and areas that must not be allowed by dogs and cats and other pets are discussed, but we need to see if any places can be taken from that list and made available. This should be taken into account, and particular attention should be paid to the distinction whether or not the individual should be in a designated location, e.g. to attend a health care facility or to be at the cafeteria, or to have a choice, for example. in a coffee shop, a distinction is made in those places in terms of freedom to bring an animal in. At this work the economy will continue to be consulted. The Ministry will emphasize the constantly taking into account the well - being of animals and people's interests, including those who are allergic to pets. I want to tell you honestly that I have not taken sides in whether or not it should be placed in the hands of a single unit partner where to have pets. But what I mentioned before is in mind as to the difference between positions. This may have to do with my being used to animals in rural areas, not in cities. Of course, it's important to go through this. The leader traced it earlier, and I agree with her, that we shouldn't have rules that are unnecessary. If there is a problem with rules, consider them. It is certainly true that today's rules are for some to mind, that they should not take their dog or a cat to the street. It's someone's problem, and then we should look into it and we're doing it. I'd like to take this opportunity to say something about the bus bed. has applied for an exception from the regulations of a way of loyalty requiring that animals not be transferred in public transport. So the bus is interested in performing a one - year test project where pets would be allowed in public buses. This business has been sent to the EEA's reviews and to the Health Committee of the capital sector and has received some reviews. We're working on that business. They're going to take care of their business in June.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u134	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to hear clearly and what I interpret as a positive response to my inquiry. It's like the highest. The minister came on to this thing is that we are all in our nature little farm people who think the animals are supposed to be part of a country and have no business in a city that is still exhaling around us. Discussing this and requiring that animals become a normal part of people's lives, urban life, etc. is increasing. That is especially so because of what this idea is all about. There is a secondary factor in the precise use of this offerer, authority, order, or what it is. The key point is that these rules will be made clear in any given hand. Another key point in the case of the minister is that, of course, the sky and sea between us and completely different from the places on which we choose and on the other hand some kind of need. Just to be said here, of course, it is full of understanding that there is a difference, but it is naturally exciting that the rural communities are powered by this, for they often find it easier to put some kind of quotas or to have a better perspective on the community they are working on. I think it's good to keep in mind. Because of the places to be in or around the country, such as with social facilities, we know each other for example In foreign lands, senior citizens who have had to give up the animals are very happy to be able to come to the cafe and enjoy the cats I mention, for example. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-15-65.u135	A respectable president. I would like to state that while I'm old - fashioned to be from rurality and to visualize the animals there in the way that was attributed to trueness, I still understand the need for people and the importance of being around their animals. I understand it very well because I know it well myself. If people live in a city, they need to be able to lead their dog to where they themselves are going. We want to contribute to a way of life without a car, and it needs to be possible. For many, their love for animals is toward couples who love their children. This can be of great importance to people, and we need to take it into consideration. But there are differing opinions. A person might even feel threatened and threatened, such as the preconceived dampness at the beginning of his speech, but the best way to deal with it is to work with it. But it can also be seen in the other way, when the rest of us, who are used to being only in rural areas, allow space that they can also be part of the lives of the citizens of the Big Rigors area. I think this case is on its way, but it needs to be discussed, of course. You have to talk about allergies and public transportation and things like that, that's just normal. But exactly that discussion we are considering.
