ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u1	Madam President. In recent years, here at the General Assembly has been discussed several times with the international free trade agreements that could affect Iceland and Iceland in the coming years, the TiSA and TTIP deals. Now, the development of world affairs, and I especially quote the state of the west of the ocean, if you want to influence these agreements, especially the latter, TTIP deal, but it is still so that while Iceland is in the negotiations, it is very important that members of the Parliament are informed about their content. It is suggested that all of us, members of the left movement, propose a special committee, according to Article 32. Congress, to discuss the international free trade agreements that we could either be involved or affected by, and there will be representatives of all the classes of the Council. It will specifically review the so-called TiSA agreements about increasing freedom in the service trade and the TTIP negotiations of free trade between the European Union and the United States, which, as I said earlier, may not be able to follow in view of the state of the West Sea. If the Icelandic government accepts either of the agreements discussed here, it will be necessary to confirm them by the Generals. We're all directed to the TiSA interview but we've been given to monitor the progress of the TITIP interview primarily through our participation in the EEA/EFTA Committee, because we're not the members of this discussion. However, we do know that if that contract is reached, it will likely have a major impact on the European Economic Area to which we are directed. It is important that discussions about the pros and cons of these agreements have been made rather than be made directly by the Allied Council, even under pressure of time. Furthermore, it would be necessary to consider a financial review whether it was best for Iceland to take any particular position, even to withdraw from the TiSA interview, or to act against the TTIP deal on the EFTA scene. There may be new situations, as I said before in these agreements in the light of the developments west and east, and it is important that the Council also be informed that as with most of the issues that we deal with in this regard, treat agreements as both pros and cons. According to the State Department Homepage, the General Department of Foreign Affairs is to be informed about the progress of the TiSA conference. There's an excellent question and an answer list of these talks. At least two times since 2013, according to General Assembly reports, this has been done at least twice since 2013. in one of them concerned themselves with the request of the representative of the left green. TITIP has never been for discussion at the State Department during this period, but as mentioned in my case earlier, the members of the European Parliament's Committee on the EFTA and EEA, and they do not use the representatives of all classes, discussing the progress of the TIP talks fourteen times, and the TiSA talks twice in their regular meetings since 2013. I think the need is full, and we in the left movement of a ◯ green supply, that the Allied Parliament, as such, will pay more attention to them, and the representatives of all the classes of the Council, will have the opportunity to place themselves in detail into both of these agreements. It is a matter of rich public interest, and the need for representatives of the public to make such decisions with the best available information. As we know, these contracts may not have been discussed here in a country that has been conducted in most lands. Then I give a witness not mainly to the General Assembly but to the public talk, the general public talk, to form in the media, on the other hand, this agreement on negotiations between the 50 countries of the International Business Agency is to promote greater freedom through trade services between the Member States and the European Union, which, as mentioned, might have a significant impact on Iceland through the European Economic Association. The TiSA contract is designed to cover business with a certain service. Previously such discussions had occurred within the WTO, i.e. The International Business Agency, but at the same time, threw them on a cut that led to the formation of these 50 countries in such discussions. In short, those countries that confirm the agreement will become part of it, make a commitment to provide providers with access to their markets across borders. However, the TTIP agreements are intended to include both the free shops and the investments between the EU and the United States, but a significant agreement has been made between the parties. The issues that have been disputed include environmental and climate targets, public health and food security, as well as general consumer protection. Different perspectives on labour rights and labour market legislation have been controversial, as well as impact on various infrastructures, such as health care and education systems. Then there are very different viewpoints about the financial system. In short, the most diverse areas of human existence are involved in these contracts, which are still so little to discuss at the World War II scene. As I said before, there is considerable coverage of the TiSA agreements on the Homepage of the State Ministry, which says that Iceland will not handle commitments in the fields of health-related services, social and educational services. However, the definition of services is well - known from such agreements, and international corporations can therefore come to a number of supporting services around these community institutions. It can then be assumed that the content of the definitions of public service can be established. One reason why this suggestion is stated is that from the beginning there has been criticism of the secrecy that has rested on both treaties. WikiLeaks has published a number of documents, both from the TiSA and TTIP talks, that have caused trouble in public discussions and have caused the government to be nearly driven to publish its data. In 2014, the European Union did not publish its offer in the TiSA interview until after the publication of WikiLeaks. The secret has served no purpose but to raise the public suspicions of these agreements. There have been strong protests against the involvement of various states in these agreements that have resulted in better information for the public, but also the fact that politicians have become more critical of what really comes to the agreements and how their arrangements are intended. This key element of criticism, i.e. The secret, then the impact the contracts may have on the public interest. It can be said that there, on the one hand, the public's advantage is to promote the free business that will provide the service more affordablely, a vacation store with any goods and investments is the benefit of the public, which will bring on increased economic growth. However, those who criticize and say that there is a plan to reduce the order of business services in any kind of service, so that treaties are primarily responsible for big business interests. This is a thought - provoking point. A significant number has been discussed, e.g. the impact of such a contract, i.e. The TiSA deal, which is about the service trade, will be having in the services of banks and other financial companies, such as insurance companies, for a traditional job life, if we can call it that, i.e. Not the financial sector itself but other activities, and the public and the public are concerned that the TiSA is primarily the interests of big corporations, not the interests of smaller companies and individuals. Similar criticism has been given to TTIP, many of which fear that the rights of working people will be impaired and any environmental demand and food security will be relaxed. It has been called genetically modified food, the use of insecticides, and all kinds of hormones. Energy issues are another major factor, but it is thought that the ideas that have existed on tables in the TTIP business could directly work against the objectives set in the Paris Treaty and other international contracts designed to counteract climate change. Then there has been concern over the effects on the financial sector and its regulations. It knows that, of course, the United States and the European Union have been on a very different road, so to speak. I'm not going to evaluate which exactly these roads lead in each case, but it is clear that much is needed between them. What has been most critical, however, are the more international laws designed to determine the issues of big business with the nation. The U.S. Department's home page says that such a court is not part of the TiSA, since the deal isn't about investments. According to the evidence published by WikiLeaks, there are other types of ideas on making judgments to determine matters of conflict. A traditional procedure to determine issues and investors, called ISDS, i.e. Investment State Escape Settlement, was the longest part of the TITIP interview, but in 2015 the European Union set up a different route of English, with the permission of President Investment Court System. On the other hand, there has been a question of the legality of such a route, and the U.S. government has foretold that a standard law to determine the issue of national affairs and investments will be established again. These issues are still unpublished in the negotiation, but it is clear that the high criticism that has been given on the procedure is having a significant impact on them. You can see an example for such actions in free trade agreements between individual countries, and there are numerous cases that have gone to such courts. According to the United Nations, since 1987 there are examples of the world's seventh hundred. Most of these matters do not sound familiar to the media, but no one has drawn considerable attention. A famous lawsuit by the tobacco company Morris Morris, who went to trial with Australia and Uruguay for changing the packaging of cigarettes and providing warnings on the harmful effects of tobacco. Another well - known example is the Ocidlician Petroleum's lawsuit against Ecuador, who wanted to stop the company's oil search for nature protection, which condemned Ecuador to pay the oil company high damages, but tobacco giant lost his own case in his day. We have a number of examples of large drug uses in European countries. The Swedish company Vattenfall received considerable damages from a lawsuit against the German state, which captured environmental action caused by coalstorms in Hamburg. Vattenfall has been criticized for trying to influence the results of local elections held in 2013 in Berlin on whether the city's host systems should be restored to the public, which were privateised in 1997, and is now conducting a second lawsuit with the German state after the German government decided to speed up the collapse of nuclear power organisms after the 2011 Fukushima Cyonian disaster. This is now expected to be better with the Swedish company against the German state and to gain billions of euro damages, according to the latest information. Dutch health insurance companies have twice handled the Slovak government when they decided to reverse the extensive privatization of the health system. The Society won the first case of 2006 but lost the second of 2012. It is uncertain what the outcome would have been if the huge international service transactions now in preparation had become a reality. An independent expert in the United Nations has pointed out that national laws directly undermine kingdoms, democratic rights of the citizens, and justice. Governments are not allowed to make personal decisions for the sake of public interest, which have democratic support if at odds with the interests of big companies. It conflicts with the Convention of Human Rights, which put the human rights ahead of special interests. Now it's like I said at the outset that Iceland is a direct party to this negotiation and, on the other hand, a person who can be influenced by such a contract. Of course, although I have considered the darker aspects of these agreements, here not everyone agrees that this is necessarily the main issue, but with such contracts, as I did earlier in my case. That's why, because we don't all agree, and because there are pros and cons on these contracts, I think it's very important that the General Assembly of Iceland take these matters to a much more effective discussion. I'll tell you that once these matters have happened to the Senate Hall in the past few years, at least. when I picked them up at the highest. Healthcare Minister at his time for reports that health care issues have been placed on the table in TiSA contracts - the highest level. In fact, a minister could not answer that request, but later it was announced that the Icelandic government wanted to keep the medical services out of the agreements - were many members of the council who did not know what this agreement was about, which can affect our daily lives as citizens in this country and also a tremendous impact on the government system and on the way we make decisions. In view of the fact that this matter has been discussed twice since 2013 by the second time in my request while I was there named, I don't know the reason of the other time, and that the State Department has not specifically discussed TITIP, it has been done in other cases where all classes are not represented, i.e. The same EEA and EFTA committee, I believe it's important to cover 32. Congress is new, and we appoint special committees in which members of Congress, representatives of all classes, have the opportunity to dive into these cases and examine them in the flesh. In the event that Iceland becomes a member of these contracts, or they will have a significant impact on us through the EEA deal, all members of Congress will be informed and will be able to take sides in the treaties so that we will not be set up against a wall in a time pressure, as sometimes has happened. I view this matter as totally independent of what we feel about the agreements in the end, as important to facilitate the increased impacts of the council, increased enlightenment to the council, in matters that have a huge impact far beyond what we have seen in the general language. Madam President. Now my attention has been drawn to the fact that the matter may be heard by three committees, i.e. Yeah. State Commission, Economic and Business Committee or Board of Directors and Commission. I have sought advice on these matters, and I guess it's best to suggest that the matter be settled. The foreign trade committee, where foreign trades agree, may request, however, the review of the Economic and Business Committee, which has been received to some extent to monitor these issues. So I suggest the case goes to the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u2	Madam President. It will be good to discuss the importance of free trade agreements in this council hall and specifically review their subject points as well as the agreements made during the discussion and in the rest referred to here. But this proposal for Congress is not directly involved. It deals with the General Assembly's arrangement for accepting these agreements. However, the report is full of various statements on these specific negotiations. What I want to ask you. A member of the Council of State and Transporter is: What is it about the Department of Foreign Affairs that prevents it from taking those factors into consideration, such as other international agreements, other aspects of our foreign affairs? There is no evidence in the report why a particular committee is needed on this subject. It would be nice to hear a little more reasoning on why this is to be done. It may also be asked, since there is nothing in the arrangement that members of the State Department have that prevents them from asking for a specific address, request that it be recorded. As an example, a minister of foreign affairs introduces the committee and deals with matters that the members of Parliament want to know: Why has this case not been discussed on the committee to form a request for a representative of the left green?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u3	Madam President. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened carefully to this very matter being discussed in the Committee only at the request of a representative of the left green, since it has not been placed on the committee's program. It is now that members of the Parliament are often charged with issues that have come into the council. These issues are not yet included in the council. They're not going to enter the council unless we join in on the deal. That's why I have to say that I've had the good fortune of being sitting on top of it. The current minister of foreign affairs in the Joint Committee of EFTA and EEA, where we are not represented by all classes, since we have received real information about the TITIP status and have the opportunity to include us in various aspects of the agreements established by the Council of State's Committee of State, has not had time to care for our activities as the Synod Committee. In fact, it has been discussed here many times over the years that there would be a U.S. Special Committee to help deal with the EEA business because the Federal Commission has had much to do with it. And because, as it turns out, TITP has, for example. There has never been a discussion at the Department of State, however, in this hall, TiSA has twice been discussed with the request of a representative of the left green--I believe that a great amount of money was in the charge of all Groups at the General Assembly to be given a special committee of these matters that have no other role but that we have been allowed to do in the field of the EEA, the EFTA, rather than to add this to the task force that we know will have a very many of the tasks that she has to give to the council. Usually, regular committees set priorities for matters that have entered the council. Of course, this matter does not come to the council, but we have the opportunity to choose special committees to discuss specific complex issues that require special attention on the part of the Lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u4	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have to say, it's gonna be strange for what. The Foreign Affairs Committee to implement this synonym, which is specifically assumed to be the case. There is no way to discuss these two specific negotiations or negotiations. That's what I have to say. Well, that's just a solution. Another thing I cut off on the case anyway. The senator is that I am not completely answered because of the importance of this case, since these contracts have not been made to the Generals, the need to respond to a special committee. If the synonym is accepted, members of the Parliament will be called together and members of the Parliament will begin to discuss agreements that have not even been realized. It's gonna be a little strange. So I ask again, " What is it exactly that keeps it from happening? ' A U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs will consider these agreements, or they will want a special discussion with the government, please. Secretary of state, these things? In my opinion, there's not enough evidence to support that, in any case, there's a strong objective that we're using the special resources of 32 percent. Council to set up this special council committee. All of them who are not members of the State Department are able to represent the State Department of State and receive all the information they want, they wish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u5	Madam President. Now we've got a what? A senator does not sit there long enough, if he sits there now, and I'm very sorry if he thinks of this proposal as some sort of attack on his head. State Department. Is then what? A senator resists the arrangement taken here during the last term for the special development committee of representatives of all categories? Does he view it as an attack on a foreign matter committee? The reason for it was that a special committee was thought to be needed to dig deeper into issues related to developing cohesion because a foreign legal committee was being assigned. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened if he had heard it in my previous reply to the reason. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been given exactly what to do, especially on the behalf of the EEA embassies, and I see no better than the U.S. Constitution. Governments can only be found by the EEA. So I expect the highest. A foreign press committee has something to do with them. What is suggested here is a special work committee. It is not to wait for the matter to come in to the council. Rather, it is to give classes, groups of all members of the General Assembly an opportunity to make a special entry into these matters. Public talk has been considerably lower than in our neighboring countries, since things have been getting less attention here. We do not have a special committee to establish, as we have done about development cooperation. This suggests that there is no lack of confidence in the State Department of State, and it might be considered, for example. The members of Parliament, also of the Foreign Affairs Committee, are interested in setting themselves up in these matters. So I think that's why. A senator does not have to take action to protect himself from pride. Foreign Affairs. That's not what the suggestion is. The suggestion is that we use the Senate to improve the work at the General as well as a number of others. Congress officials have discussed a number of matters and have given members of the Parliament a chance to take a deeper position in major matters that will affect us. I can only believe that those who speak here most of all for improved practice agree with such a suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to draw attention to a case that is about politics, a big girl she really is. It is a pleasure to discuss such matters at the council. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator on its main point and hence its main policy and intent by this decree of interpretation. Is she and her group basically agreed to make free trade agreements like this, but she just wants to do good work, and that's why this proposal is submitted? Is it basically against such agreements being made, and is this some kind of attempt to extend it and kill it? Or does she have doubts about the making of such agreements and believe that there is something else that she can do, in this way, that she can end up working on it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u7	President wants to remind you. Councilmen to use the proper comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u8	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for very good inquiry. I'm not against free trades at the Prince's Tip. However, I have some doubts to form on the data that I have mainly read about through data spills, which have been reported on these discussions, especially the TiSA talks. Then I have some doubts about how these contracts are built. It is not by chance that these discussions were on a cut within the International Business Agency. For one thing, it was under pressure from the giant corporations that were not found far enough in that direction. What I mentioned here specifically in my history is, of course, how differences between national and corporate organizations are resolved, which have been largely discussed in TITP and are not yet resolved. That is why I say, it must be a big deal for senators who want to do their job well in such large matters. I'm not going to rule out or say anything about my position or my other senators left greener, will end up with these contracts. It all depends on what they look like in the end. What I'm most concerned about is the interests of the public in these countries, which have not been given enough to know about these discussions. It's been acknowledged. This is evident when governments decide not to publish information until after the leak, which, of course, is thought - provoking in all such matters, excusing that the agreements are on a delicate level. Of course, it's a public court we need to be aware of. We don't know how these contracts end, whether to form such a statement will be part of TTIP. We don't know. Other routes have been tried, they've been turned down. It's back on the table now. It may not be on the table. That is why I say, in so many complex matters, it is important that members of Congress be given the opportunity to settle matters carefully. [[The president calls.]] Such a committee is not designed to reach a final truth or conclusion, but it enables all of us to reach a conclusion in our political movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u9	Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I understand that, and why. A senator would correct me if I was wrong, that it is not the overall course of the left movement, to be opposed to such agreements in general, but they want to do well if that is done. At least I understood her answer in that way. Hv. A senator will then have the opportunity to correct the situation in the future if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u10	Mr. President. Hv. The senator understood my answer correctly. If he did research on votes that have been involved in various vacation contracts that we are involved with to form EFTA or just in our own agreements, members of the Left Green have often supported such agreements. It is, therefore, not about the basics but about how these treaties are built. First, the secret that has been given to the negotiation is the agreement. Second, what has been reported is the amount of data that has leaked out. Third, the whole process of working together; things have been kept very close to those sitting at the table of agreements. The information has been difficult to get, much has been presented, as I mentioned earlier. The Ministry of State met with criticism by putting some information on their TiSA website, which is good. However, it is important that members of the Parliament have the opportunity to settle into these issues on the depth and to discern what that means, for example. if this is part of the TTIP deal, let's say, in investors' conflicts and nationalities. What does that mean if Iceland is a party to that deal? What does it mean if we look at it, say investments in the country of energy companies or things that governments might want to change, e.g. In view of any environmental goals or such? Of course, this is a macropolitic case that I believe is important not to be lost here at the council scene, where committees are usually employed and have little opportunity to take a case of their own initiative and dive into it. That's why I suggest this committee because I believe it's a case worthy of such attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u11	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion and this council mishap. How important it is for the Council to be alert to these matters! There are a number of undesirables that have been adopted through international business contracts over the past decade, but these contracts are usually or often in secret written by representatives of the future Member States and representatives of large companies who come to benefit from the contract. It has been due primarily to leaks that we have known about their nature before they appear to be approved or denied. The contracts often involve creating the right of an enterprise to aim national states for national laws not allowing them to do about anything or whatever they think of, as noted in the history of the century. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Such contracts also often require considerable and broad legal adjustments as part of their recording and after having been considered to accept or reject the entire agreement, democracy has become relatively weak to the changes needed to take place, and it is not possible to cancel a minor violation of the agreed agreement, it needs to be accepted as a whole or to reject it as a whole. As the evidence shows, it does not always matter whether Iceland is a member of the contracts made, but it is very difficult to claim that, for example, it is very difficult to believe that Iceland is a member of the contracts that are made. the expected free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada will not have any effect on Iceland. There is a requirement in the contract that will alter European legislation, and any of the European Commission directives and regulations that will be implemented by this contract will be being introduced into the Icelandic Parliament for the treatment as part of the EEA Convention. It was a huge victory at the time when the ACTA Convention was rejected at the European Parliament after a very long delay that I played a part in which the greater part of the European Parliament had to be convinced that the ACTA Treaty was very limited on the free trade and much more about the greater national authority of companies, major corporations. It was hardly a week since that contract was rejected that another comparable agreement was being discussed. He got a new name, a new four-letter abbreviation, but he was actually the same as the ACTA deal that had just been ready to slaughter. The messages that came out there were very clear. The ability of people to object that democracy is thus cremated is lower than that of international corporations to repeat itself to a red death. This was made very clear by putting another contract in the railer. It's going to be done over and over again until it's finally all approved, looks like you're doing it. It takes some kind of counterweight on this. It's, for example. unscrupulous that state goes very far in secret negotiations with other countries to create some rights that should really be discussed at the councils first. It is not without reason that these contracts are increasingly developing as special treaties between countries rather than through the International Business Organization, which have various defects, but for their little part have been more opposed in this totally ostentatious way. Free international transactions are good. We need to increase them. But we too need to be careful. It is clear, then, that the Council Committee of the sort suggested here is an important factor in ensuring the success of the agreements we come to and ensuring good monitoring of the agreements that will affect us, even if we do not come to them. International commerce is likewise increasing, becoming more dense, and becoming entangled. We have today at the EEA and EFTA Committee, which I look forward to working with, but better if possible. In view of the considerable complexity and international interests involved in these contracts, we need to be very careful and to keep a close eye on what is happening in the world. Special committees of this kind on a particular large task are generally good. As members of the Parliament, we should make use of special committees to address matters too large and important to ensure that firm committees can pay them sufficient attention and that they have made sure that things are not in some way harmful to us. So I believe in the suggestion of integrity. The fundamental issue is, in fact, that as the world becomes dense, despite perhaps an attempt by the president of the United States to create some sort of claustrophobism, we need to understand the importance of all these business agreements. We also need to try to set standards and simplify them in some way. I've often said that the EFTA deal is one of the best kinds I've ever read simply because it's short, simple and clear. Even if there's an endless addition to him, that's okay because it's better than, for example, that's better. Suggestion for ACTA and TSA treaties that have been shown to be endless long endings with extraordinary peripheralities and such and are essentially written to prevent them from ever being read or fully understood. So I hope this case works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to get involved in a little bit of a discussion about this council-sounding proposal for a Senate committee on the free trade agreements that we at the Senate Party's Left Motive left move all contributes in our name and whatnot. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has recommended and applied himself materially. I'm not going to repeat anything that is presented in a paper with the Senate resolution proposal in my speech. However, there are two things in real life that I'd like to do even more because I think they're very important in this discussion and relate directly to it and argue that in my opinion I'd like to appoint a special Senate committee to cover and dive into these big international free-will contracts that Iceland has participated in or might be affected by. As we have seen, the secrecy of these contracts has been largely criticized, and it has been for a large leak of data from which to produce WikiLeaks as the public and indeed the politicians have also received information on the content of the agreements. Now it's so great. A former minister of state, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, placed in his minister's emissary's website some information on Iceland's focus and contract goals. Of course, this was to some extent a reaction to criticism of the confidentiality of these agreements and, of course, was good as far as it could go, since we know what the goals of Iceland are, but the problem is that we are no closer to the policy of other countries. In fact, we do not know what the interviewer stresses unless he has made public information or has been leaked. This is what is partly so difficult to deal with when it comes to these contracts that both elected agents as well as the general public are having a very difficult time observing the discussion and developing an opinion. There is, however, a great need for good and enlightened discussion on these matters. I think a Senate committee is exactly the right place, because, as is suggested here, all classes sitting at the Council place at the table. There are many different viewpoints and may call for all kinds of visitors and experts, spending time on the case that I think is totally out of place with a fixed committee. Even though it is. In fact, a foreign - language committee I sit in may be quite diligent when it comes to necessary matters. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that it is not realistic that a constant committee can spend the time I thought would be desirable for this one and a certain matter. Then there's another reason why I think it's good to attend a discussion at the Senate Committee right now when the discussion is going on because in terms of international agreements, the payment is always the highest. A minister who signs the contract with a so-called administrative notice for the approval of the Generals, then comes the case to the council. So, in reality, the Allied would face an object that is much harder to go back because it's already signed, it would be Generalis to invalidate the signature. That is why the conference at the Assembly Hall often becomes such a follow - up talk. I've always felt that way. I realize that in some ways this is difficult to deal with, for it is a foreign minister who has the authority to sign international contracts on behalf of the Icelandic state, but it is more important that a good and thorough discussion is taken before coming to sign. Since I took my place at the General Assembly, first as a deputy and then a senator, I have twice as a reminder of a special discussion on this matter. There, all of us know that the talk period with everyone is an enormous nudge. There is no time to dig deep into things. In fact, it is only an opportunity to make comments and make comments. The way international agreements are loved and done and the way they are handled, I consider, in my opinion, another reason why they should put the matter in this direction, since in the case of high standards. A minister is signing a contract, and the General will take sides to see if we want to be involved in such a contract, we have something in our hands. We have knowledge of matters from broad viewpoints that may interfere with the interests of various communities and with all kinds of political views, but we have an overall perspective. That's even. That is why I really hope that this matter will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u13	A respectable president. I've been following this discussion today and had studied the contents of the Senate arrangement. First thing I want to say, I like it very much. Transporters are talking about free trade agreements in general and off-limits. I'll admit that I may have felt that the report had something to do with the positive aspects of the vacation contracts. It was at least The chapter I missed. I hope so. Senators don't take it seriously, but I think it's important that we are aware that Iceland was still a very poor country if we didn't have access to foreign markets and we didn't have open markets. When we talk about helping poorer countries, we cannot help them with self - help unless we give them membership in our markets. It's that simple. This is not just because nations break out of poverty. It also turns to the fact that we continue to pursue the prosperity here and hopefully increase it and increase the opportunity for people to enjoy what life has to offer. We do so by even opening the door. ... fora vacation shop. People have always talked about this in customs. It's actually a very old approach. It's been a long time since, we can say, the business blocks started building the technical business barriers. That's what's most about the world's major obstacles at a vacation store today. We'll see that in cooperation in the EEA, we'll see that, for example. when products come in other places, e.g. The groceries, we need to put on them some funny note with exactly the same information that is already on the packages. Of course, this is as unwise as possible. This means that people, if they don't have machines, need to tape information that is there. Is it only because the European Union has tried to protect itself in this way to keep this standard information. The European Union is not alone. This is generally true. This is what men are trying to do to prevent a vacation store, and there are two schools in it, on the one hand, to coordinate all the standards that I think are very difficult if you are going to get a vacation store in the world and the other that I think is more reasonable, that there are mutual rights in the national systems, if that is some translation of Šmutual recognition, more dignified president. On the other hand, I like what's happening. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, a 1st traveling overseer, referred to us as applying ourselves, and we are both interested in discussing these agreements at the U.S. Senate Committees EFTA and EES, but I was president and chief. Senator, vice president of the Committee. We got very good publicity that I felt and a lot of information. It was a little strange that when those contracts arrived, America was more willing to give us information than the European Union, as strange as it is today. This, in turn, improved. of the criticism we had in connection with it. But, unfortunately, I think this deal - and it's not because of recent election ends in the United States, I think it's a little bit since people got very pessimistic that it could work out, especially because of a huge protest in Europe over these contracts. I don't think they're going anywhere. Perhaps there is an additional point on the subject that I was going to present and discuss in this discussion. I've been thinking for a long time that a foreign legal committee can, as we have seen, discuss all of this. It can bring in people and can deal with matters whenever they want to. If there's a member of the committee, what? A member of the State Department wants to talk about it, that's all it's done. A person can meet as much as he wants on the foreign matter committee. But I believe we've come to that place, and I've been thinking for a very long time, that we should divide it into two. On the one hand, we have a foreign case committee that deals with foreign affairs and then we should have one EEA/EFTA committee that would handle the EEA directives and our non-contracted business. I hope we'll see some power at a vacation store soon enough. I'm pretty hopeful about that. It is very important that we discuss it in this field and we are aware of what this means, including, what it means. Because of all kinds of views that exist. It is very important that people know what a vacation store is and how it affects people's lives. Some who oppose the so - called globalization speak of it as being such. to harm the interests of those with less. There's no one who'll lose more on it than poor people if the vacation store stops, I won't talk about if you walk back. The reason that many products are less expensive today is that they are transferred from countries that can produce them more effectively than we do. Iceland and I made much more in our time than we do now. However, when we walked to EFTA in our time, things fell out that were there, but we got things cheaper and even better than right now. In turn, what we did better made it available, so we put it on the other market. Everyone rejoiced over this in the long run. However, it can be reasoned that when such a change occurs, it will have an effect. It is each society, then, to try to prepare for and encourage those who face such tragedies and help them to do other work than they did in the past. I just rolled it into my discussion and hope that the discussion has developed. I've talked about it all the time before, so I wonder why. Transporters whether it would be more reasonable to have two fixed members of Congress, one of the Foreign Affairs Committee and then an EEA/EFTA Committee, which would be the same as with the vacation agreements, for there is, of course, a lot of size. It's very important to have a good time. The members of Congress and the entire nation are very aware of what this involves. True, the main evidence is that the EEA directives are so boring that no member committee or any members of Congress can be expected to sit and only read those documents. You can be sure that the EEA directives - which are too many and in all too many detail and are actually losing a little bit of the information that was suggested in its own time - are no entertainment reading, but it turns out that there is more to be. It is also of utmost importance that we have to plan more carefully so that we will consider these matters, the arrangement, at the proper time, i.e. when they're about to be prepared. This is something that was published in the report by Björn Bjarnason, son of Björn, ten years ago. We haven't been able to perform it yet. This is something I picked up from Norway yesterday. We agreed to try to plan better together, i.e. Iceland and Norway. Of course, they have much more scope for this, not only for governments and councils, but also for the Norwegian Council. The Norwegian Council has had more tools to follow these issues and find out what's going on. There are often opportunities to do so, and truly there are opportunities to address their viewpoints. I'm not going through the mistakes that have been made. There are many mistakes and have been made that I know we could have prevented when it came to these directives. It is unwise not to take advantage of the benefits of the EEA Convention when it comes to them. I can see that this case is of the magnitude that we should have a regular committee that would also discuss agreements like this. I don't know if these contracts are gonna be alive. I don't think so. I think if there are any contracts, they'll be with some other merit. But, of course, I don't know any more than anyone else in this room. Time will tell. But I don't think it would make sense that we would always be creating a new and new council members, depending on what the deal would be. I just wanted to talk about it, but I'm glad they discuss it. I've thought of the discussion that's been good. But I think we're going to best do this by having two committees, State Department and the EEA/EFTA Committee on holiday. Then I think we'll meet the objectives of this council resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u14	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for your discussion on this subject, and thank you very much. Minister for sitting here in this discussion. The day has come when I will praise the highest. Secretary of state, often a day of history. In many respects, I come up primarily to say that I agree with the highest. A minister and a former speaker in this chair said that I had wanted to see the missions of the foreign committee divided in a way that he mentioned here, i.e. I'd like to see a special committee on the EEA/EFTA business and like this, and then the Foreign Affairs Committee on the other side, it could also pay more attention to the Georgian business we're dealing with, refugees and take on developing cooperation more closely. I believe it would be a more efficient and better way, but so far has not been the basis for it. I welcome the highest. Minister says. If this suggestion could lead to a change of arrangement here at the council, it would be a fine work for my share. I propose this proposal, and we to the council of the left green primarily to draw attention to the fact that we are often, as noted in the debate. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Þóra Arjörður, to deal with, in effect, when international agreements come to the council. Of course, we should change it so that everyone will have the opportunity to enter into such cases as we have been allowed to do at the EEA/EFTA and at the highest level. The minister's approach is based on differing political views, so the discussion has been good and deepened for us there. We've been trying to keep it in here. I think it's important that all members of Congress have this option, so I hope to propose to the highest degree. A minister to whom he would suggest at the end will also be discussed in the conduct of the Committee on this proposal so that the matter can be discussed from that standpoint as well. It would be as if I didn't say a bad result if it were to come to a conclusion. But in other respects, I thank you for a fine discussion of important and macropolitic matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u15	President. This bill of information and truth ministers is being moved by Piranha for the third time. We made it clear during the last terms, provided that a minister was repeatedly in order to give the General information about the issues of the Minister's Department. In the core, this bill contains something that everyone agrees with to be good governance, i.e. that a minister should give proper information to the General, that they are not misleading, and that a minister does not conceal information concerning matters handled by the council. As the situation is today, however, although the secretary of the Council is hiding information, as happened recently in the leading election, it is not an arrangement. This was two reports covering the very reason why there was an election, i.e. Panama documents, and the information presented in the report that the Minister had compiled. That discussion could have happened. This was important information. They were secretive. But this does not seem to be a relic. I spoke to the Senate Legal Office, and I was told that it appears that it is not a fraction of the 50th par. Conventione that a minister, by permission of the president, submit the information he has access to and have significant significance for the assessments of the council in this case in the case, reports, etc. He can sit on information and hide information from the General Assembly. The general meeting, when it does its own watch, when it does the writing of laws in the country, places the law. all kinds of precautions, all kinds of teeth, meaning that there is a law against breaking them. However, there is no law against the fact that a minister himself violates the law on information. It can be found in Icelandic law, though, in over 50 st. Act of the council, which is the procedure of the council, rules of how the council should behave, including Because it is stated in a constitution that the Council should monitor the European Commission. But as for information, there are no teeth there. A minister can ignore it. What this bill means is that it will place teeth in this connection, it will be about the Minister's responsibility if the minister breaks the 50th paragraph. We're always making laws at a council with teeth, with a set of wood. It is natural and good government practice that if the Minister of Congress doesn't give it right and true, relevant information or secret information when the Council has a case to treat. The other point is that it is a matter of speech because it is said that it must be proved by deliberate or grand laxness. It is not enough to say that a minister gave misinformation or secret information to the General. This is not to say that the Council itself decided: "This is what it is, he gave misleading information. ' No. There are courts, the National Court in this case for the Minister's responsibility, who will have to decide whether a minister has given false, misleading information or hidden it for the council. As we all know, it's a little hard to get a case for the court of the land. This is not something you run to and plan to do. However, this is a law in which it is clear that this is a matter of Minister responsibility. A minister is responsible for not lying to the General and not hiding information from the Council. This is not the case today as shown in the bill article, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Minister's responsibility laws do not include responsible ministers to the Council if they are to account falsely, gives misleading information, or conceals it when dealing with a case. Therefore, ministers do not have the necessary resources and may be tempted to give misinformed information to the General or to give it misinformed or to hide that important information. Of course, no one in the country wants to see this. Most senators may not want to do so, especially if they have the responsibility of monitoring the executive authority. But, really, I don't think in his heart any senator would have it like this, that a minister could actually keep secret information that has something important to do with the community for the General and the public. Is that provision necessary? If we go back to our report, by permission of the President, there's a question: Regarding this subject, in an article by Ásmundur Helgason, then the chief legalist of the Generalist, published in Article 3 of the Journal of lawyers in 2009: The political arrangement of the Congress does not provide sufficient guarantee that governments will be able to inform the Council on relevant issues. The danger is that the government considers itself to be only a committed part of the government that supports it. She trusts in him, and at the risk of making problems for her when cases arise, she is less likely to do so. This may result in the granting of all necessary information to members of the Commission but neglect to provide information to the General Assembly, including members of the administrative body. That can't be viewed as normal in democratic terms. The Parliament is designed to operate as a single stage, reflecting the differences between political views in the community. It is the General Assembly that handles the legal authority and the financial authority and inferences on other matters, not the administrative part, and there is open talk that makes the voters possible. For any information to rest on a minister, whether political or legal, it must be at the General General, not to some members, or to part of them. So it will contribute to greater rights of the minority in case such a thing is given legal value, as it is less on political grounds. I'd like to draw my attention to what's going on here, that these things are openly presented. This is not only the meeting's surveillance role, the Senate's surveillance role is, in fact, a. to draw into the light, into public discussion, information that concerns the public, but it also makes a difference to do, as it says, the democratic continuation of voters possible. That's exactly what we saw in leading an election. The application of a report on the property of Icelanders or tax collectors, in most cases used as such, made it impossible for this discussion to be held at a council, for when a minister submits a report, members of the Parliament can ask for it to be spoken of in a council hall. That's what was supposed to be done. But it was decided to sit on her. The minister decided to sit on the report. It is not a good democratic rule to make the establishment of voters possible. It'll save for it, it'll stop the democratics from holding the voters. That's not a good rule. I'd like to reiterate that in the government contract, this is made quite clear, by permission of a president: The government will carry out all its tasks in honor of good government and transparent administration. What I described isn't democratic government, it's not transparent government. If you want to make it up to you, this is the opportunity to have a bill that has been submitted to the Congress of Porta for the third time. Of course, we are on the subject of whether it can be done better and how to set this up, but since the main objective is assured, that a minister must give the facts that are not misleading and that he does not conceal information concerning the issues involved in the General Assembly. And then I'd finally like to point out that if the bill of the Board of Directors had been approved, if we had brought it, it wouldn't be a problem. In the bill to a new constitution, we're talking about 93. That's exactly what it's like to be a minister of information and truth. It says, by permission of the president: The secretary is obliged to provide information, documents, and reports on matters under which he hears, unless it is strictly under the law. In this case a minister would have been obliged to provide this information under his direction. He would have had to file this report to the Generals when she was ready. Come on, I'm going with 93 str. on the information-oriented minister of the Council of Control: ▪ The Senators have the right to obtain information from a minister by asking a case or by requesting a report, in accordance with further instructions in the law. There's only a stronger word than law today. It's spoken of in the constitution that we can request, etc. It is said that this is usually interpreted as a way of giving information to a minister, but it is not clear when he must give it. It's not quite clear in the law today, he can sit on them without breaking the law according to the lawyers I've talked to. Then there's the last paragraph 93. gr. on the duties of information and truth in the board's bill: ▪ Information provided by the Minister for the General Assembly, its committees and members of the Parliament should be correct, appropriate and adequate. This government is not going to accept the Council of Government as well as this 93.g. which would ensure good governance when it comes to secretary of knowledge and truth. However, this council may agree that we will legalize information and truth-oriented ministers toward a good way of governing according to the grammatical views, and we can continue our conversation. Now we have Pirata's bill. After 1st. we are taking the case to the administration and monitoring committee. There we will see if the matter is not prevented from continuing and being treated so that we can handle it as far as possible and eventually get ourselves to some conclusion so that the affairs of information and truth ministers are better and better handled at the General Assembly than we have so far. Finally, I suggest that the bill go to the management and monitoring committee and 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A traveler for his passage and for his bill. I like what is in it, and I agree with what it takes. I try to live by the simple rule that you should tell the truth. I am particularly glad that this is a bill that is about it. I'm also especially happy that I did what I did. A senator declared himself ready to continue to support a conversation about it. That's exactly what I want to do here. I've talked it over a little bit before. Transporters of this bill, but I wondered, for the legislation must be clear, and no doubt there, that in 2 g. it is referred to if information is kept secret in a case that the General shall have for the treatment that has a significant significance to the Council's assessment of it. Then, on permission of the president, the report states: It is a requirement for violation of this section of the provision that the information that was secretized has been relevant to the treatment of a case at the General Assembly. Therefore, if information had already taken place at the time of the decision, it would have to be demonstrated that another attitude would have taken place. When I was reading the bill and the report, I stopped for a moment. How do we show that if the information had already happened, it would have been different? How do we show that the information that was secret was relevant to a case at the Council? It may well be planned and there are ways that you would like to hear about. But I wondered, " Do I need to be clearer and more clear about how it's being done? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u17	Madam President. Yes, exactly. This case is worked by the First Aðalheiður Ámundadóttir for us Pirata in our last term. She was an assistant to the council. She's a lawyer, and she's a bad guy. If I'm right, she's the only person in Iceland who's been graded 10 for a BA paper in law. She's an expert. She won this case, set it up like this, and then, of course, I've talked to other senators. It is the natural court of the land that judges. When courts judge them, they judge even. based on what a reasonably intelligent person would consider. For example, if there has been information about e.g. Scary environmental impacts, say that a minister knew about the terrible environmental effects of a silica plant but kept them secret, perhaps he could say: Yes, knowing about them would have changed the situation. This would have meant much to the council's assessment of this matter. After all, it is a court order that settles that issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u18	Thank you. I thought this would be the answer. Still, I wanted it in my discussion because I thought it was a little important there. In itself, I do not intend to ask many direct questions now. I like it and suggest that we discuss it and work on it as necessary. I'm going to declare my special pleasure with what has been discussed in the report, the workgroups and research committees appointed by the General of the past few years. We have only discussed this in the past few days in connection with various matters. I've been thinking about recent discussions whether it was more than just a piece of work to ask for a report of the revised proposals adopted by the Council itself, often by all the votes of 63 members of Congress, and to see what they have become so reality, let alone the decisions that make up the current Supreme Court. Governments have rebelled against them and even governments before them. I'm wondering in my answer because if we have many in this room, we've read all these reports and reforms over our heads, we've forgotten them. I'm especially glad they're referred to here. It's very good that the four main adjustments are being conducted in the report at the bill. Again, I rejoice that the bill has come out and is looking forward to further discussions about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u19	Madam President. Yes, this is on page 8. 2 for those interested in the bill's report. This is a five - page report for those interested in the case, well - rounded and swerved, just as it were. A member of the Parliament refers to reports and decisions made by the General, in which these cases have been carefully discussed and agreed. The General agrees in many cases that we need to fix these things, that we need to sharpen the intelligence and the family of truth ministers. In particular, the report published by the Chief Father of Ámundadóttir indicates that there are four major changes. Second, consider whether a violation of an information minister should be punished under the laws on rights of ministers. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪See also the view that it is normal for a minister to violate information rights to the council to protect punishment, which is said to harmonize with a Danish court. We have an example for this. Of course it is normal. The minister has information to the council as a law for all the people, of course, with all sorts of laws and penalties if people do not follow them. A general body makes laws, does not get the right information, and monitors whether or not it is carried out by law, perhaps grossly or not sufficiently. The General will not have information about it from the Minister, nor will it have consequences, no teeth, no wood laws. A minister can only hide information, and there are no laws. Although he plays this tremendous role, there is no excuse for it for a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this excellent bill, which is about a lot of interesting things, and it'll be exciting to look into it. Of course, there are many things in this bill that need to be discussed, but I think the main point must be that we can improve the work ethic and that the council can perform its monitoring duties with the executives and the execution of the authority will do in some way what is suggested and inform the council of what needs to be informed. Now there are very poor rules, I think, I must admit that I am not quite versed in this, or relatively poor rules about what happens when a minister is asked for a report. What is the time limit, and where is the water report being followed? I wondered, " Is it not beneficial for me to discuss the matter simply so that the council, members of Congress, the public, can observe? ' When the council has requested a report, you can keep track of where it stands. The workers have been put in place or what is needed, now being in charge of data, and now this is over, the planned conditions are at some particular time, so we can monitor them. I think it's in many ways more efficient for monitoring than put the rod on. But I'm not saying that there should be responsibility as well, and therefore punishment, but I think the other is more efficient, that we have a system where we can better monitor what is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u21	Madam President. Yeah, all this kind of information is good for you. At the Generalist Web site, if you enter a Senate case, e.g. This matter of information and truth may be seen on the right side of the process, it is submitted in 1. ... it'saddressed, etc. It's that I think two paces of a report, on the other hand, the request has arrived, however it is accepted. No, probably the third step, that a minister has returned the report. Where the report is in the process since the Council agrees to request a report until we receive this report is not clear. True, there is a time limit, if nine members of the council ask for the report, the time limit is 10 weeks if I recall correctly, relatively long time. But where the report is in the process is not clear. It's been a matter of lateness, and then the answer has not been made as I think it would be. A senator is talking about. You can't find out where the report is in the process. Even if I have called often upon to know when a report is coming, you may still not have a clear answer, and so a report may be made if a new council starts. It's natural, then you have to put it back up and go to work, and so on. I totally agree with this. You'd better put these on and go on as a whole. Taking together all these processes would also be good for new senators. I've been doing this personally a little bit, getting together at the Generals and how they are and taking together a manual on it because the presentation of the documents that exist is not good enough if you want to look for it and follow it up. We got, for example. The presentation of the board and monitoring committee today on the process of how cases go through the committee, which is far better than the procedure you've seen anywhere else. True, I have taken this up myself in terms of legal matters and can give it to the senator, a much more detailed summary of these points in articles, in Congress, and in the regulations set out in the regularity of matters throughout the council. [[The president calls.]] All of this will be published publicly, too, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for answers. There's another thing I think it's worth looking at too, i.e. when the General requests a report. So when is the Ministry working on data relevant to the public, what information there is there. The report or information is then referred to as having to do with a matter proposed by the General for the treatment. But without my wanting to discuss it materially, I still take it as an example, I'm going to get involved in it, i.e. The second report on the correction of debt that has been very discussed. It's over now. The case is over. Congress does not have that problem for treatment. Does this mean, then, that the penalty is not taken as such? I'm not going to get involved in material discussions. I'm just going to take it as an example of a history report. The case is not for treatment at the council, if I understand correctly, the correction is not to be treated. Would this somehow affect such matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u23	Madam President. That's a very good point. We are just trying to find out exactly what this means. On the other hand, I found out one talk about the council's legal office. We can call for reports available, new senators may call for their discussion, but that is natural after a minister has submitted them. So there seems to be this hole right there, since the Minister gets a complete report and until he releases the report, there seems to be a hole in the law. There are more holes. That's exactly what these things need to be fixed. I believe that. A senator wants good government practices. We can just fix it. We're on board of administration and monitoring committees together. If the committee was interested in this, it might be possible to review these matters and correct the duties of information and truth to the council so that we would practice the good, democratic, and transparent governance at the time of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u24	Madam President. The objective of the bill we're discussing here is to strengthen the Minister's Accountability and Legal Act and provide counselees with necessary maintenance in accordance with the WHO surveillance role. The contents of the bill take on the responsibility of a secretary to the General if he is misdisputed, gives misleading information to members of Parliaments and Parliaments, or secret information important to the management of matters at the General Assembly. Similar primes have been submitted since 116th, the legislature of equal officers under the lead of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. The matter is part of strengthening the Senate and the follow-up of the Generals with the Commission. The Minister's Court is setting up since 1963 and has not been changed since that time. They include the responsibility of the minister of the administration and the responsibilities of a minister. The principle is that this should be done if a minister has either deliberately or willfully acted in discriminately against the republic's constitution, other laws of the land, or otherwise placed the interests of the State in an predictable danger. The Minister's Act does not specifically address responsible ministers for information giving to the Generals. Article 54, par. The Constitution guarantees members of Congress the right to request information from a minister. The law has been thought to include the right of senators to inquire and report requests. However, this does not include a general minister of information and truth to the General Assembly. One of the evidence given by the World Council of Parliament on the conduct and cause of the fall of the 2008 World Bank was that the Council failed to fulfill its role with the executives of the European Commission in a powerful way. This led to a panel committee that discussed the report. Increasing the independence of the council from the Commission, including the Council, was emphasized. Suggested for reevaluation of the Convention Act, the Minister's Accountability Act, and the Court's declaration. As a result of a review of the Parliamentary Act, the surveillance role of the General with the Commission was greatly strengthened, as IV did. chapter 5 of current Parliamentary Congress, No. 55/1191. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that a minister should submit the information available to him and should have significant significance for the interpretation of a case for treatment. This obligation is to respond to inquiry from the Generals for special discussions, to reporting, to information on the matter of Congress and the initiative of the Council Committee, whether the information offering is initiatived by the Minister or by the council's request. However, Congress does not stipulate the consequences of disregarding information obligations. It will not be discussed specifically about the universal family of truth ministers in the information given to the Council regardless of whether information is of significant importance to the Parliament's assessment of a case for treatment. In accordance with the principle of legal penalties, compare 1st. Sixty-niner. Therefore, the Constitution is considered to be worthy of making clear that the Minister's Ministers' legislation will include the secretary's information counsel to the Council and thus violation of the obligation may be in charge of the penalty given there. Is it suggested that a minister's responsibility be formed if he provides misinformation or misleading information to the General and if he conceals information that is significant in the handling of a matter at the General Assembly. This is a standard comparable to that found in the Danish laws on the right of ministers. In Norway, for example, the general information duties of a minister to the Council of Great Congress were put in a constitution in 2007, as did 82 C.E. At the same time, there was a penalty if a minister neglects them by law on the matter of being a minister of responsibility. Accepts that responsibility for all kinds of misinformation. However, as for the information given on personal initiatives, the responsibility for the head of the board is only met by a prime project for the treatment of the council. It is the fundamental premise of democracy that the National Committee has the proper information to base its decision making on. Misinformation can easily lead to a different conclusion. Then lack of information can lead to confidentiality between Congress and Ministers, which we have a recent example of when a minister decides not to publish reports of election action until months after they were ready. This is an example of how trust is undermined between council and minister. In order for the Council to perform its own surveillance role, it is very important that members of the Parliament receive sufficient, legal, and clear information on the issues discussed on each subject. The results of the work force on morality in the General Assembly report on the collapse of the bank were an emphasis on the importance of informed exchanges and the reasonings of increasing the Congress's maintenance of the Commission to the Commission. The key element of informed discussion is accurate and clear information. In order to highlight the importance of the information-related minister to the General Assembly, the bill that we address here is suggested to violate it in the form of false or misleading information or confidential information that has a significant significance in handling of matters protected the laws under the general conditions of the law on the rights of the Minister. Madam President. I support this bill whole. I hope it goes fast through the council. It's, like I said before, not for the first time that it's submitted. This has been done many times. I support the bill with my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u25	Madam President. Hv. A senator was present after the collapse when much of this discussion took place. I quote that a work group report on the Administrative Management Board was conducted with the Commission, a number of findings was shown in the results of the Allegation Committee of the Parliament's Research Committee, and then a report by Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir of Study Committee of the II Parliament. This is the big thing the senator did for himself here at the council. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How was the sense of all of this, especially the family of information and truth? What was the mood when people began talking about the need for this? How did this develop in the council's activities in order to reach the common conclusion: yes, listen, we may need to start doing this? I'd love to hear the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u26	Madam President. There was no special joy in the council when we received a report of the General Commission, for it was, of course, a judgment against the government in Iceland and over so many other things, and especially the monitoring of, surveillance institutions, and how the council was conducting the European Commission. It was a common conclusion that 63 members of Congress voted to promote the Council to the Commission and that rocks were to be brought in before members of Congress to make it clear and effective so that we would not return to the same clamp. This bill is a factor in being able to take good care of this monitoring. Another way is to have a file open. I'm just doing this bill, so it's similar to Norway, where counseling file is open, of course, under strict conditions, it's not part of personal affairs, etc. Then members of Parliament could enter and examine. Is the report here yet? So let's take a few examples that we know and that have been discussed here today, calling them for their discussion. I think all the reports and reports that have been made since the collapse of the bank will benefit us. Then we need to keep developing and putting underneath the holes in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u27	Madam President. That's a very interesting thing to say. In itself, it is long time for us to try to cope with what may not have been through yet, i.e. with the duties of truth and the things necessary for ministers to conduct themselves decently, so as to be spoken in human languages, and to render to the council what is due them. Of course, this is very important. As we have seen during today's discussions, the Senate's surveillance role with the Commission has been very much under discussion and not unsatisfactory. Now that we are discussing it, unfortunately, because of rather sad circumstances. The fact that a minister, no matter what government he is, allows himself to conceal reports, data, the state of Congress, and to the nation is, of course, extremely sad. This cannot be interpreted as different from what the minister thought would be in trouble and his party to publish this information. There is no other conclusion. There is also no other conclusion when you read interviews with the minister after he became aware of this and comes into contact with a response, which directly says that he has decided to keep this secret and to try to carry something that is somewhat unfaithful. On top of that, he refuses to appear before a Senate committee to discuss the matter because he has already discussed it in the media. It is also most reprehensible to believe that there are enough answers and reasonable tactics to be made to the General to discuss the matter with the media. In any case, it can also be said that when a minister said that he could discuss the matter at the council then, it is not possible to settle it together, either to discuss matters openly at closed hearings, to ask for a long, long, many, often, or to go here in a special discussion where a senator will have two minutes to ask a minister and a minister has five minutes or so to answer, and so the matter is done. It's just everything else. Despite the possibility of drawing out some points, the discussion will be very different from when it is possible to have a conversation on the council committees. Of course, if the minister feels that he cannot stand on his feet and stand before the committee and defend his actions, if he can do so, or if he feels that he is entitled to the council, he is embarrassed. We do not know whether these reports that have been discussed and may be the basis for this discussion today, of course, for the bill, that would have affected the outcome of an election. We can't say anything about it. Maybe they would have, maybe not. But it was at least set aside both nation and assembly to choose to have authority in their own hands to do so. It is not acceptable that the council has not been given the proper means to succeed, including. has various issues with the Commission, finance, public finance, and what it is now called. Congress is still not well enough. The Ministry received e.g. scholarship. There are many things that have to be adapted to be really some sort of surveillance, something, as it were. A messenger who gives some conclusions, not just that we always sit in a status quot. I don't know if it's one way and whether it takes a lot of changes or how it would be made, if counsellors were required to publish it, and report it here at the Senate Hall when it's named, staff or what it's now returned to their conclusions. I don't know how it would be best, whether or not the Ministry will follow up on the project, it's going to create a final version or what it is now, but somewhere we have to start, and this may be a way to, in fact, that there's going to be some obligation. We can see that in both of these matters, the reports on property and correction remain for months. That's not normal. They've been asked about them many times. The Ministry doesn't answer either. The secretary is responsible for his office. I feel very sad that the situation is this way and reminds us, especially now, that we were engaged in an unorthodox election. Why? For one thing, our current prime minister had property in Panama documents. The Chairman and the Vice President both. It's not an accident, it's not surprising that the report goes to the drawer. It's just not like that. It's a conscious decision. There are so many things when you begin to consider issues related to this matter, except for any other matter and requests and God may know what we have requested and have not answered. Not even all the answers are presented about the correction we requested. So it was sad to hear at the top. Environment Minister today is talking about how we'd all known this, so that's why we didn't need the report. What is it? Of course it matters. It is not just the content that matters; it is important that the council be treated with respect on the part of the European Commission. That's what matters. And when people who have such responsible positions that ministers repeatedly break at the council, I want to say, by doing this, because I feel at least So even if it isn't under the rule of the law against members of Congress, I think it must come now to consider these two matters together by the U.S. senator's agent. I think it must lead to his own investigation when it happens twice in short intervals. I think it's so serious. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, Jethro, had already requested an agent's response to the previous report, and he could not see a reason to respond to this, based on the answers the minister had made. But now that it happens again, it must be at least should be taken into consideration. I wondered when we looked at this in the big context that it was a big deal during the last assembly that answers were received very late by inquiries, reports, and so forth. Big and varied matters certainly, but responses were received very late. Now the Ministry has received a scholarship, most of them in the financial sector, but it does not change that waiting for answers is not repeated, even as it is now that they do not come to a new assembly. So, what are we gonna do? So, do we need to renew our queries, the reports? Or is it possible that this will be done even if there are only partial answers? That is how it is with the answer to the detriment of securities loans. The core was to ask for the consequences of that report, i.e. The correction report. That process began in October 2015. The Ministry is receiving an inquiry in December. It was about six months after the report was completed, one and a half months after it was completed. The core asks when it would have been returned, but by permission of the president, the report has been submitted on January 18 of the previous year. Regarding the final release and when the report on the report was completed, it was found to have been at the end of October. Wrong answers are being made. What can we do? There's nothing we can do. That is, in effect, what you find, the inadequacy of being a senator when you feel you are in the nation and yourself have been wronged in a job, when a minister may repeatedly allow himself to act in this way. We can't react to anything in somehow. That's why I support the proposal Pirates offer here. No doubt she will change, as it were, to the council. But the basic idea is to try to grasp this, i.e. that any execution at any given time would not be able to resist being responsible for its actions. Of course, it hasn't marked Icelandic society, the government, that ministers will step aside, unless they are beaten in tambourines out here, it's more likely to happen. It takes a lot of effort for a minister to resign. It hasn't happened often. That's not necessarily what you want, that the situation is that people are repeatedly giving up a Minister's right or something, but that is to be done when humans have the same evil authority as this has been done. I hope this bill gets through. I hope, too, that the groups of people who preach new and change their practice and talk a lot about it for the elections now and before, and also, and would prefer transparent, different administrations, would like to drag people along, although they have not shown themselves directly at the beginning of the Senate service, that's not to be said, to be true. I trust it, and must, in effect, do it and have nothing else to do, that people will see their advantages in doing this, that the minister of truth will be in the way of this recommendation, and that ministers will not put themselves in the position that they can be drawn up as to what sort of procedure the council is presented. I really hope that the matter is being treated quickly during the council, and we see it becoming the shape of the spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u28	Mr. President. There's one thing I think we can do. Despite the highest. Secretary of finance, later Prime Minister, has refused to appear before a financial and business committee to discuss the matter, and although men have applied the rules of Congress - a quarter of the committee may call after such a hearing with a minister - I think, I'm going to take a closer look, that he must still attend, or at least, the chairman must have the meeting. Two. Section 15. The law on the council, which is the code of the council, says by permission of the president: ◯ The Committee has an obligation to make a meeting if at least one request finds out about it. 1 percent of the members of the committee and take up the agenda for the issues presented. The same goes for a request from the member of the committee who has been assigned to investigate a case. Four members of the committee, three members of the council. Well, then I might. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, for the left movement a toil, or a what. Telethon senator, Lilja Dögg Alfredsdóttir, supported it. So one more is needed, since Pirats have two members of this committee, me and the other. Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Then we can call for a meeting, which means that we can call for a meeting if we want to discuss this matter and proclaim the minister of the matter, in this case Prime Minister, for the committee to discuss whether it is the case that the government wants to have it, to refuse to attend a meeting of the Committee when the Council and the Committee of the Parliament uses its role in the executional role. After proclaiming this matter, a quarter of the members of the committee may request that a minister attend the committee meeting and the meeting be held as soon as possible after the request arrives. The meeting will be held. [[The president calls.]] The meeting must be held. And then you ask Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Prime Minister, I'm going to skip. At least we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u29	Mr. President. That's absolutely right. We can call the Minister to a meeting. This was done in the case of the Economic and Business Committee. It was requested that the minister come to a meeting. He refused. The Board of Directors and Observers can certainly call him in for a meeting. And that's right, the meeting will be held, of course. Because a quarter of the committees can request it, the chairman of each committee must grant the meeting request. A minister may also be overly inclined to decide to come if he intends to come. He can deal with other activities and activities. They have already done so through difficult times. has been. Most, however, try to introduce the committee if desired. I think that's the general experience. But when matters are difficult and difficult, we have experience from the last council that ministers are not coming. I don't know if we can get any further on this top one. Minister on a new committee. But it would be wish that it would be done, even if only to review the procedure and ask whether it is something to be expected on the part of a new government, or rather, by what means the minister intends to act in such a way that the council, separate from whether this will be legal or not, should be informed when making any reports or such. That it will be announced whether the Ministry and the Minister consider themselves to be necessary, then more space is needed to review, complete, or complete the report. It would have to be so that when working groups give important results in difficult and complex matters, they are required to perform announcements. It would be interesting to hear the highest opinion. It's a minister's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u30	Mr. President. There's another article. It's a 19th degree. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ If at least one quarter of the committee's members attend this meeting, the chairman of the Committee shall seek it with appropriate advance notice to the one asked to attend an open meeting that he will be there and be aware of the occasion. It might also have been possible to find an open source, which means at least to broadcast it, but in any case, he would normally be broadcast, as if open to committee meetings, as we have seen. I think something important is that if a minister is to disrespect the Senate's surveillance role, he will openly do so. Then the people see that the Minister refuses to attend the General Assembly hearing, but the meetings are still held. V.E.G. The prime minister then needs to protect him from making a genuine announcement for objective reasons to discuss matters involving his authority, the authority that he will exercise on behalf of the people, and that the Council can then expect the Order to determine whether it is appropriate for the council to monitor him for it and for that time. The minister himself values it, saying: No, it's my job to evaluate whether the Council's inspection with the Commission, with me as a minister, applies at any time. We'll see, then it's just masked. I think it's always good when you want to make some changes to give people a chance to do what's right. But at the same time, it shows that when people don't use that opportunity to do the right thing, they all see it, and then they're very clear. This brings us to another location and requires that we take other steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. In itself, in praxis, it is so that if a minister does not wish to attend a meeting, the meeting is not held with the pretext that the minister is attending the meeting, but there is some other program or that the meeting is not being held. I don't think a meeting would be held or the meeting would be open if it was clear that a minister would not attend. The response of our senators would be more than simply to have a book of dissatisfaction and response if ministers do not allow themselves to attend a meeting. I think it has to go that way. But I agree with that. A senator, of course, should give people the opportunity to come and explain what is involved. In the case I've been referring to, a minister has already had an opportunity that he chose not to take advantage of. He was invited to a meeting but chose not to attend. It seems to stick a bit with the new government, and I hope it is her beginner error, not realizing that the relationship should first be with the council and then with the press. It's supposed to be that way. We senators and I can resent the fact that, in particular, the executives choose to always choose the media before us senators. That's not acceptable. Nor do the presidents of committees or others in such positions. They are under obligation to inform the council before informing the media, unless life is at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the good discussions that have been about our Pirata proposals about the minister of truth and information. This has been a good, informative discussion. But I would like to discuss my vision and understanding the reason behind the bill. My vision is that the Ministers are represented by the Generals. A general council offers counsellers with care. Or so we're told. However, if the council does not have the right information, or if it is deliberately deceived or deceived, it will be ignored. A responsible minister must involve telling the council true and right and giving them valuable information so that they can react and make informed decisions. You see, it's all a matter of public interest. That responsibility does not seem to rest on the shoulders of the Icelandic minister, for it would be a matter of history to the next town if a minister was to resign for lying, information, or deception. In many lands, it is customary to prosecute a minister for a serious lack of office. The minister would like to say yes rather than to be accused. It is not customary for ministers to be prosecuted, with one exception, let alone the fact that they lie and conceal information about public interest. The bill suggests that a criminal must answer queries and other information requests from members of the Parliament with misleading or false information. This also applies to information that a minister should take his own initiative and have a significant significance in the management of a case at the General Assembly, i.e. It is suggested that a criminal must conceal information that a minister should provide for that purpose. It must be taken care of, and I stress it, that in the sentence of the new penalty which it is indeed, these are so-called special laws, the action description is clear and not too universal. According to Róbert Spanó, the principle of the clarity of this criminal warrant is by permission of a president: ▪... penalties must refer to a minimum of any objective reference or to a tangible unit of guidance on their content, even though it is expressed in an ecstatic way. In my opinion, the bill is perfectly clear. It certainly includes an estimating law on what it is to hide facts or deliberately mislead the council. But there are many examples of what this involves, and it is shown in the bill with the bill that misleading information is provided to provide the wrong impression of events or facts, but it may not be allegory but ambiguous. Unquestionably, misinformation have fallen to convince a person of something other than the truth without directly agreeing to being wrong. It is repeated here at the General Assembly, deliberately misleading an assembly and nation, hiding information, deliberately using vague and undefined legal codes and political preparations to mislead us here, but also concealing information about the people of public goods, apart from the fact that the fact that the band of flames is so clear to the council. It is, however, relatively common for ministers to conceal a council and a nation of important information or even lie in a fine tone of mouth. It is best to remember the leaky language, which seriously undermined the confidence and credibility of various government institutions. Or when two ministers took up their own business to support the U.S. illegal invasion of Iraq without any consultation with the Council. And today, there are, of course, a number of examples of such behavior as a minister of the council and of the nation. This is why we're doing this bill. We'd like to enhance the surveillance of the General for counsellors. We want to make sure that they are responsible for telling the truth, for it is more than just good manners to tell people the truth at the Council. It's a matter of great interest. Doing so can have serious consequences if ministers deliberately lie or fail to give up the correct information or fail to hide it or cover it with wording or something similar. I think this bill is a very important factor in improving the responsibility of the Minister to the legislature but also in improving employment at the council. So I find it strange and kind of boring that there isn't one minister here to discuss the information and truth duties of this company. Clearly, they are not interested in whether they will be able to legalize that they ought to tell the truth to a council and a nation, which I find to be a voluntary democratic requirement that all of us are supposed to have. But the Ministers of the Government, which announces improved and changed, and good and fine tactics here at the council, feel that they have no business in the discussion of information and truth ministers. I'm very sorry. I am a co-sponsor of this excellent bill, and of course I strongly urge it to be accepted and to look forward to continued discussions about it here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u33	A respectable president. Lack of political responsibility is one of the most serious of all political ills. How appropriate it is that we discuss this matter when we have just arrived at the highest point! Prime Minister, then secretary of finance, has, in fact, kept two important reports on huge issues ahead of elections. But this is, as has also been established, yet something that has always been wrong in Icelandic society does not appear to be a political responsibility in the English language. This may well have been seen when the World Congress Research Committee returned a report, and it was found that not one member of the board would accept responsibility, some kind of responsibility for the United States economy. It still seems that in some European states, the current Council dared to apply the laws of Ministers responsible to the Minister responsible for the nation's population's collapse of economic breakdown. It seems a disgrace that the Council of the Council should, pardon that I quit, dare to see if any Ministers can ever be responsible. It is a very important part of changing this culture permanently, hopefully. We have more cases since the collapse than these two reports. Minister. With the permission of the president, a member of the Minister of the Interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, on January 27, 2014, in this chair: The memo that has been going on in the media and here and it is not comparable to any information in the Ministry. By then, in November before that, she had received a review of her e - mail. What's this called? Well. Although it may be less popular in the group at present in this chamber, I believe to mention a serious charge that concerns whether the information-oriented minister has been adequately handled in the complex Icesave language at the time of the decision. The secretary of finance, with his permission, said: I think I can assure you what. A senator that doesn't exist to settle any agreement tomorrow or any of the next few days... This is said at the same time as the end of an agreement and it signed two days later. So this happens, it seems. There are examples of this in all categories, in the board of directors. This is part of an Icelandic politician we have to eliminate. I believe this bill is a very important factor in its survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking you for the contributions of this bill by 1st. paritaprevir Jón Þór, Ólafsson of Olafur, and others who bring it with him. As we have discussed and traced, this bill is followed by many other primes, which have been submitted over the course of the century to further further the information ministers to the Council and I rejoice that the bill is being presented in this way. I'm not going to have many words in my speech about its exact contents and reasons for its appearance. I think that all of us who have addressed and listened to the discussions here in the Senate must agree on the need for Ministers to provide more information to members of the Parliament than has been done and that the information of the Commission to the legislation is better defined than has been so far. There's plenty of occasion and plenty of stuff in the past. Like what? paritaprevir The Oddný Harðardóttir in his earlier speech was followed by the economic collapse and the Senate committee with good reason to believe that it was a further obligation of Ministers to present information to the council. I'm not gonna have my case very far, I think I agree with most of the things that have been going on here, but I'd like to think about it, for example. that, according to Congress regulations, Ministers 15 days have given members of Congress an answer to their written queries to ministers, but there is in fact no law or supervision that ministers are responding to the members of Congress. I wondered, too, which way. A senator has some idea of this, because this in his paper with the bill says that it is important that the law's penalty be clear, how monitoring of this would be conducted, whether it would be on the table of the Board of Directors and Commission or any other way in order to ensure further maintenance of the Minister. I'd love to get some. A senator would tell me more if he was capable of speaking against the senator who stands here. I'm glad this bill shows up, and I'm also glad to hear such a positive tone in the members of the council about its contents. I believe that it is in the best interests of the council to promote the information-related Minister which, surely, is in harmony with the minister's responsibility and in harmony with that appeal in the community that the Ministers will present themselves openly and thereby promote the submission of the council's role as counsellers. I'm celebrating this bill, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for asking that question. I'm gonna let me answer her a little bit. Monitoring and implementation in the current legal environment are very difficult. It would really be that the council, or possibly some committee, could record it and discuss it. But as a body of Congress, we have no other means to follow this rather than to propose a synonym that the National Court should assemble, which is, of course, a very faulty system. In so many respects, they are defective. I've studied some kind of close laws that apply to the Mosaic Law and the way it's being conducted. The arrangement means that the Council is actually acting as a prosecutor until it can be appointed, i.e. that the General is conducting a research project on a minister's loss of office. This will not really be changed unless we change the constitution as many of us have been fighting for. The legal arrangement, as it is now, includes the fact that the Council has limited tools to investigate such cases and find out the truth, and that the Council has to investigate the matter and provide a judicial arrangement that will clearly limit what the Minister is charged with making clear, and then the prosecutor will be appointed to investigate the matter further to the National Court is a very flawed arrangement for my evaluation and adjustment. But there would be material that would be much bigger and more important legal adjustments than we propose here. What we're suggesting is that it will at least be done by a legal minister to tell us the truth, which I think is just a minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u36	Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdótir for the speech. My thought was not necessarily to turn the General into some sort of prosecutor office, such as that, but in my brief session of senators, I have often wondered about the laws, the council. It seems so now, as mentioned here, that ministers can simply refuse to attend meetings of committees to explain certain issues. They can draw it into the infinite supply of answers to council requests. The leading minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, took very long to answer the written inquiry for his arrival in the Energy case and so forth. There are other examples of this. There are ways that a minister can avoid giving the council true and accurate information, even if everyone signed a solemn pledge to carry out the contracts faithfully. As noted in the case of the two, there are many baits and baits. A senator, a speculation about the field of justice, and a speculation about the role of maintenance, and who should use it. But I'm glad that we, as newcomers, are wondering about it. I'm sure it would have been very interesting to hear from the council president who has a lot more Congress experience than both of us, and there are others in this room who could have suggested something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u37	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We have very few tools to force a minister to carry out his duties by law, by Congress, and, of course, by constitution. Actually, the National Court is the only tool we have to allow a minister to produce certain consequences for failing to carry out his legal duties or neglect them or simply to abuse his authority as Ministers. That's too bad. I also don't want the General to be some kind of prosecutor. I just want the General to have some decent equipment to provide the Commission with the development of the trinity of the state. It does not hold properly water when it comes to a balance of some kind between these three arms. To date, it has been so, in my opinion, that the project has been able only to control the council indefinitely, and the council has been defenseless and helpless when it does. There's something that I think that needs to be reexamined by a board of administration and monitoring committee but also by a board of directors, which I hope will now resume on the basis of declarations in the Treaty, i.e. Committee on a new constitution. Perhaps she could handle the problem we are in, which is that there is really no way to let a minister be responsible for abusing his empire, except for his natural reign. But like a dog. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson spoke of the scandal over which a minister was considered to be responsible for an extraordinary or proven lack of office.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u38	Thank you. A senator for this answer. Here we are in some very deep, intense thought of the state of justice, democracy, and the role of the council in the administration and the executive authority, which is always very exciting and interesting, especially for us who are sitting here in this hall and participating in politics. We share that opinion, me and what. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, that the council should not become a prosecutor in some way. Perhaps the emphasis on clear surveillance of the minister's actions will be on entering the bill in the treatment of the council and on committees. Perhaps a prime committee, a administrative committee, or some other committee or other relief committee should give an idea to further the Senate's surveillance of the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u39	Mr. President. The Council's Act, which is the procedure of the Council, including... are implemented all kinds of details on how the council should operate, more important points, as summarised in the Constitution, stated by the permission of the president: The report shall be completed within 10 weeks and the report shall then be printed and distributed to members of the Parliament at a meeting. But like a dog. A senator mentioned, what's the penalty? There's no penalties. A minister can only refrain from doing so. Who, then, should follow it? Yes, the president of the council should push it. But the same is true of wrongdoers, and the president of the council often does not. Then it just sits down, and it's called here at the council, it's such a slang over it, that the matter is cold. It's sitting there cold. The Senator has to run after this. There is no one responsible to ensure that a minister does not violate the law of the council, where the council is fulfilling its duty by calling for a ministerial report to be made by him. It will be printed and distributed at a meeting in ten weeks. This is exactly what the senator mentions. Where does this warrant come from to request a report from a minister? It appears in the constitution, the arrangement for Congress is an implementation of regulations in the constitution. The constitution says: By permission of the General Assembly, I request information from a minister or an answer to an official subject by asking for or requesting a report. Then, in the council, it is implemented, saying that a minister should hand it over to the council within ten weeks. But a minister can only say, "Oh, I forgot. Or just: No. There's no penalties. What the bill goes on is that there will be an antiquated law against the Minister's refusal to accept a surveillance role and duties, the Constitution of the council's check-up duties, to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u40	Thank you. A senator for this answer and to justify that in the bill there is a law against disregarding the Constitution, as the senator rightly introduced, on the Constitution. But I wonder what. A senator has ideas about some sort of sharper and more clear surveillance plans for the counsellors and whether there is something that might arise in the treatment of the council and its committee on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u41	Mr. President. If the government's bill had been approved, a minister would have been obliged to do this. It is also possible to legalize that a minister is obliged to do so, and this served to protect a minister's responsibility if he does not. In saying that it defended the ministerial responsibility, this has become a legal matter. He's about to break himself pretty seriously. Perhaps the question is, Is that enough? Is it enough to say that it defended the Minister's responsibility? That's a good question. Maybe skate ministers in Iceland over that, too. They skate over so many things that are not done in neighboring countries. Thus, in the neighboring nations, when a minister is breaking off on the matter of being a minister of responsibility, the matter is said to protect the minister's responsibility to lie to the council or to give misleading information or to keep information confidential for the council, for example. In the Danish court, and when men violate the Minister's Duty in Denmark, I have heard that the rule is when they do so, that they resign. Then the council will not follow them. But you're right. This too has something to do with culture. That's a good question. In spite of this, what is the answer if a person is also going to violate the ministerial responsibility? That's a good question. On the other hand, we can immediately assume the laws of these regulations, the Minister shall arrive, and so on. We can work toward that. We can talk to the new chairman of the council, Brá Konráðsdóttir, who is very skilled in his work that she better defends the council in this regard and calls for ministers to return reports to them. This Pirata proposal is to expand the information obligations, not to hide reports, hide information, and to protect punishment. I think, in any case, if we succeed in making peace within the council that we want to fix this, we can take real steps to correct this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u42	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing on the health plan. This is the priority of our candidates during this session. All the moving agents of this proposal are why. Councilmen of the House of forwarders, but the surly one. A senator who stands here, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, is the senior authority in the case. Others snarl. The members of the council are Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred, the daughter of Eygló Harðardóttir, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurnar, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil. Regarding the decision to hide the highest order by the General Assembly, the Council concluded: "I am a member of the Council, and I am a member of the Parliament. " Health Minister to start working with a health plan for Iceland. The healthcare programme will be implemented in collaboration with healthcare professionals in the medical profession. The use of a healthcare professional will include take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. It will also take into account the population development of health - care centres, populations of age, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, and the town of summer homes, to name something. At the same time, the strategy will take into account the use of waste resources at health clinics in the country and thereby reduce the pressures of land hospitals. The program will be submitted to the General Assembly in December 2017. A respectable president. An essay with the proposal shows that the objective of the Parliament resolution proposal is to work on a health plan for Iceland. During the last total election, many believed that there was a need to improve the health system in Iceland and that there were progressive members of the United States. Special attention was given to the importance of health policy and the need to continue funding for the seminary, as was done during the last term under the Commission. In this context, there was a difference between the two groups. pointed to the McKinsey report, released in the fall of 2016 in support of the case, as follows, by permission of the President: In 2014, U.S.A., 8.8% of GDP near the average OECD, but lower than any other country in the North countries, except for Finland. The assessment of health costs in Iceland requires observation of other health care systems, taking into account national and demographic factors affecting the need for health care professionals. There are some underlying factors in Iceland that affect the effectiveness and quality of the health care system and reduce the requirement for health care. On the other hand, there is also the inefficiency of the Icelandic health system, which contributes to the increased demand. This indicates the need for health-care policies but the final results of the McKinsey report also state: There is an interesting time in Icelandic health care. When the bank's failure to make money was severely reduced, the health system faced severe problems and continued quality service. The development in the Land Hospital was, in many respects, a symbolic feature of that period. With increasing demand, the hospital was able to reduce the cost considerably without sacrificing the quality of the ministry. Despite impressive performances in recent years, not everything is best chosen in the Icelandic health system. There is a lack of clearer management between the various health care providers as well as a management tool that enables evolution to control. In addition to this report, some systematic problems that limit the cost or raise questions about the quality of services in certain parts of the system have been identified. In recent years, there has been a unique opportunity to cope with these problems and to ensure that the National Health Organization provides quality services in all areas in a practical way. By means of clear medical policies and increased financial resources where the need is greatest, it will be assured that the investment will be most effective, leading to a stronger and more efficient system. In view of these findings presented in the McKinsey report and due to the lack of health policy policy, carriers offer the proposal to implement a health plan for Iceland and that it will be won as soon as possible. Transporters believe that it is important for health - care professionals to get to work because they know best and make good use of the knowledge and human resources available. It is important that health professionals come from many parts of the country, since conditions in the health system may vary depending on whether they work in a large hospital or in a reduced medical facility in the country. The healthcare programme will include take into account geographic factors, such as transport and distance between symmetrical boundaries, as mentioned above. It will also take into account the population development of health - care centres, populations of age, the location of medical vehicles, and the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, and the country's home, to name something. At the same time, the strategy will be considered to see if parishes are involved in making use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reducing the strain of land hospitals. And as mentioned above, in December 2017, the Health Programme will be submitted to the General Assembly. A respectable president. The Senate document to my inquiry, which I received the answer to on April 7 of the past year, includes the following article. until the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and Security became one Ministry, i.e. On January 1, 2011, the Ministry of Health has been working on a new health program for some time. Together with the consultants, it was decided that the medical programme would be changed in the light of the new Ministry projects. At the 141th legislature, i.e. In 2012●2013, a well - being policy or a health plan was proposed in the form of a non-communicative arrangement. After the election for the Council of 2013, two ministers, i.e., were divided by a task previously heard under the welfare minister. Ministers of health and social and housing. Since then, the highest. Healthcare professionals are working on health-care procedures. At the same time, the reply made in the Council of Congress on April 7, 2016, shows that a minister planned for the next few days to suggest that a course of health should be proposed and planned to submit it to the General Assembly as a synopsis proposal in the fall, i.e. Last fall. It is good to relate that the proposed proposal never appeared before the Council. It is likely because elections took place in the fall, and we all know the subsequent outcome of elections and political negotiations. A respectable president. I would like the second part of this brief talk to quote the news I have brought up during the process and the interest I have in health policy. First, the September 22, 2015, issue of a news report, then U.S.A. Minister of Health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, by permission of the President: There is a complete view of the health system, and no real long-term policy has been taken on the case in this country. That is what he said at a meeting of a business committee that discussed health matters. At that time, a medical program, as mentioned in my talk was being prepared just now, at the Ministry of the Present Ministry. Minister. The medical program was presented solely for presentation, and as I stated earlier on the matter of fall elections, she did not appear before the council and must also state in this speech that the medical program is not at the head of Congress. current health minister, Óttar Proppér, i.e. in the current council. Second, on August 16, 2016, the headline of this report is: Orders for clear policy and political solidarity. The story says, with permission from the President: The Birgir general of Jakobsson says it is necessary to set very clear policies on health matters in this country, In the same report, he also says, with the permission of a president: ▪ I hope for a broad political solidarity as to how Iceland wants the health system to develop. Third, I want to give a talk. Current health minister in the debate on policy debate at the highest level. Prime Minister. But it says the highest. Current health minister, by permission of the President: One of the main factors in the Health Care Professional Declaration of the Government's Strategy is compatible, safe, and accessible to health services. Despite many benefits from health care in Iceland, it needs to be better coordinated and viewed as part of the same whole. The plans of the new government aim to link better the services of health care, hospitals, home - care facilities, and nursing homes. Strengthening health care, home - care, and nursing - care facilities, so - called basic services, will reduce the need for more expensive and complex services. This is the best place I can see. Health Minister is stressing the importance of policy measures in the case category. A respectable president. I believe it. I trust to the highest. Government, my ass. Her members, are serious about the importance of conversation and cooperation. So I have high hopes that their word will be the highest. A minister quoted above gives evidence that this important controversy is being carried out. Finally, I want to say this. It brings us special pleasure to be on the program for the council because it is a very important matter. A policy model is needed in this major series of issues that affect all of us, the people of the country. It is our hope that the matter will receive a good material processing within its grasp. The General welfare committee and all of you. Congress officials insist on moving the matter forward. It is our opinion that regardless of our country's health care, the country should have equal access to health care and that all the country's health care should be readily available to health care, regardless of their status. At the same time, progressive candidates want to reduce the expense of patients on the credit system and become important steps in those materials later this year. However, it needs to go further and lower the roof further, bringing more aspects of the health - care system to its roof. These include: dentists, aid tools, and psychology services, and patients' travel expenses. It is our belief that by a clear course, all of this will be accomplished. We transporters suggest that this agreement on health care will take place. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this important proposal being held at the council so quickly as we see today. It is simply being suggested, as suggested by the prime minister, that all of Iceland's health programs be worked out. If I speak a little out of my own heart for the past few years, I've felt a little bit foreign not to look at enough services to be provided in the country, and there is a possibility of giving in the country. We have seen that there is increased pressure and pressure in the Land Hospital, our main hospital, even a pressure that could be lifted by using institutions around the capital area or by making better use of the facilities, equipment, and tools that are elsewhere in the country. My recent experience is that the land hospital has been almost alone in the medical discussion. It has been forgotten that worldwide health institutions are health institutions, and there are, of course, people who are looking for a good service. Today you have to drive a long distance and go a long way to attend that service, even having difficulty caring for your daily needs in this regard. The report on this body of interpretation quotes the McKinsey report, which suggests that it is not the exactly budget that is missing into the Icelandic health system but, rather, how it is new, it needs to be distributed better than it has been. Inefficiency is mentioned in this report. I'm gonna allow me to claim that we're going on this trip, that we're going to do this plan that I'm hoping, of course, that the council will agree, that maybe we've seen a different image than we've seen from the system here, that there's more to be done in the country, that there's not necessarily enough to send all of us to Reykjavík or to bigger places to get a service. I also think it's important to listen. This is one of the suggestions for listening to the people, listening to the people who live in the country. We can mention a few communities, we can watch the West, the East East East East and the Middle East, where there is a longer way to go, but we may be able to render service there at low cost. You also need to look away. It is not that you can simply say to people: You can only attend medical services at this place, but there may be one or two mountain roads between those that are open from time to time, as it were. There are these things that need to be taken into account. That's what we suggest. I'm not going to have this speech much longer. I hope, of course, that this case will be passed and it will be delivered as soon as possible through the council. Of course, it must be carefully reviewed. It needs to be discussed carefully. You may need to add something to this, etc. But there is no need for us to delay the matter. This is good. If I recall correctly, there is no medical program for Iceland today, so it is necessary to work alone on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u44	V.E.G. President. Our health is important to all of us. Sadly, all of us need to rely on health care during our lives, some of us more than others do. We want health care to be good and secure, and no matter what the economy or the residence, we can have access to it. You see, the health system is one of the most important of our welfare systems, and it wants us to nurture, isn't it? A debate for the last election was on the way, no matter what category. We want better health care, there's nothing going on. The question is, What is the best way to improve our health system? When that journey takes place, you better get better aware of it, for our health - care system is very expensive. Much of the government's expenses go to health care. So we need to do our homework well, watch our whole system, not its specific aspects, and, above all, watch the country all over, all health institutions, and other investments under it. We need to ask ourselves, " How can I use what we have more effectively, improve my ability to make my system more efficient and better, and make my money better? ' It is a huge project that is extremely complex, but at the same time a worthwhile challenge for all of us. The 2016 McKinsey report, as the tourer, wasn't at all. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, referred to his talk earlier, is a fine guide in this building. Then, an extended synonym is one of the stages toward a better health system, which I hope we will be able to meet together in a positive way from now on from the High Council. In the Senate arrangement, the President's permission includes: ◯ We will develop a health plan that will include: take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. It will also take into account the population development of health - care centres, populations of age, the location of medical vehicles, and the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, and the country's home, to name something. At the same time, the strategy will take into account the need to make use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reduce the strain of land hospitals. Funds that the World Council provided just before Christmas were added significantly to the health - care contributions. The forwarding party government and the Independence Party had the primary objective of restoring the health system that had become quite weak after a long and painful cuts in recent years. I'm not looking for a guilty man by saying that. This is just a fact that we need to face. We also went through one of the financial collapses that, of course, were severe in medical institutions. The General Assembly now agreed to add contributions to the South American Health Organization and the Southnes Institute for Health. Both of these institutions face great challenges and have had to cut down significantly in recent years. For example, the National Institutes of Health began. To a huge debt debt from the Western Institutes of Health when they were united, and this debt has been difficult to correct, but it was better for 2015 to pay finals. The number of tourists has increased dramatically in the area of the South Health Organization, with a significant increase in the need for service. An ambulance is so self-employed. In the South, there are also large summer houses that need to be taken into account when each need for service is assessed. It does not matter whether there is a need for law enforcement, transportation, or other public services. The population does not say everything about the need for service. That's a long time ago. We have to take another aspect into the equations. It is quite remarkable that this is not yet done in every case. As a result of this great stress at HSU and specific circumstances, the Agency received additional financial resources in budgets, as the Agency has previously said, much better than it was before Christmas, which is well known. There is now a history of the Southnes National Institute of Health. There are other circumstances and other needs. In the long run, this institution has suffered severe cuts far beyond what can be considered normal. Again, I'm not looking for guys who are guilty. We simply need to keep up - to - date with the need to improve things. Health contributions to people of every population have been lower in the South than in other parts of the country, that's just the way it is. In the South, population growth is now the largest, but last year the increase was an 8%. As there is no end to this increase, employment structure in the area is huge and, at the same time, housing in the capital area has become too expensive, so working people are even benefiting from going south with water, getting more money when they buy housing. During this population growth, funds were partially lost, as were the growing flow of tourists across the region. Last year, according to the latest figures, almost 7 million people went through the terminal, I think it's 6.7 million. An even greater increase is expected. All this job structure, including while increasing air bases, they follow people, both registered residents and short-term members of individual projects. We need to be aware of this trend. The inhabitants of Southnes are well - equipped for transportation and are driving a distance from the capital area, and therefore, at times, they have been slightly overlooked in their discussion of health care facilities in the country. However, it is time to discuss Southnes'status and a vision of the future in the setting of health care in that area including In view of the rise in population and traffic traffic traffic throughout the air station, the U.S. What are we going to do, for example? to do if a plane crash occurs or anything else that tests the ability of the health care system of Southnes? Is it responsible for us not being like that? open operating rooms at the hospital to serve at the airport, where 7 million people are now passing through? Let's think about this for a minute. The air traffic and its challenges make some of South American health institutions different from other health institutions. Yet, there are many things that link organizations outside the capital area together regarding their opportunities. We've built these institutions. One of the biggest problems in the Land Hospital is the flow problem complex. A growing number of nursing homes for the elderly can help to reduce that problem. It is now being prepared for the establishment of a nursing home. So we are on our way, and we need to keep our pockets tight in that regard. Another thing we can do is, as I mentioned earlier, to make more use of the current institutions, especially the Kragas institutions, such as the Southnes, Acdéri, and Selofos. Better use of these could help reduce the flow problem and shorten the waiting list for simple operations. It makes no sense to use our operating rooms. Southnes have e.g. two operating rooms prepared according to my information are not new today. There are operating rooms on Aranesp and on Selephoss. I don't buy the argument that the problem isn't the operating room. It's so hard for people to find such positions. It's not hard. We can make better use of our men than we have. It is easier to transfer health care professionals between strains and cheaper than to transfer patients between strains or allow them to wait a long time for action. The Legus is also the most expensive person in the hospital, our high-tech hospital. Of course, we should make use of that space only if necessary. Rather, we should let patients recover from less - expensive clinics after surgery if possible. We in this room are not much of a specialist in this field. We have our opinions, but of course we need to consult people who are working on the program in order to see how things are best cared for, to listen to health professionals. Of course, they have knowledge and ideas about improving health care. Sometimes it is good to speak less and listen more. I'm going to be completely honest with you because we're discussing future procedures and health policy and I'm going to say that I feel that the governor of the Land Hospital is being given too much attention both to the media and to the politicians in the later years. I'd like to hear more from those in charge of other health institutions. I'd like to hear more from management and health care professionals. I want politicians to be careful not to lose us in extreme discussions. We need a full view. We need a system that works for everyone. I want to finally thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for taking this case to a place. This is good. I hope there's a positive report at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u45	President. Thank you. A senator for her speech and why. Councilmen of the Company for the contributions of this proposal. I'm celebrating her very much. I know it's been under discussion for a long time, and I'd like to remind you that when we do this work, we also make use of the public health policies approved. I think I'm doing the right thing. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's comments tell him that they have been given too much attention. You see, I think I share that opinion with you. Senator. I know why. A member of the council is more experienced, and I wondered what this discussion was given here at the Parliaments and whether the emphasis was actually too much on the Land Hospital, which is certainly an important medical institution and plays an important role in our health - care system. But I agree that there are more and more of them in all the land. I'm well acquainted with a medical facility fired in Mosfellsville, Smokeyund. All records have shown that costing people to rehab at an institution such as Smokeloaf yields several times in the national setting because these individuals return to their job life, which makes it possible to calculate for profit in that relationship. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator on how the discussion has been discussed in the last issue of health care and especially the Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize for walking here in a non-sential manner. I'm obviously deeply involved in the discussion, thinking a lot and forgetting a little bit. First thing I want to do is thank you. Haraldsdóttir For an excellent answer and happy to hear that she mentions the public health. I was just wondering when I wrote my speech earlier today whether to enter the part because of the fact that the people's health has, in my opinion, had too little room in the conversation both during the council and elsewhere because of its importance, of course, it is of great importance. We're talking about a comprehensive health plan, we're talking about policy. In recent years, this work has been done at the Ministry of Presidency in the work force for public health. But we may not have heard enough of it, I miss it. I would like to have an increased discussion about public health. It's something else. A senator mentioned such rehabilitation centers as Smokeloaf, and there are natural health facilities in Whos making and other such factors that play a very important role in the health system. What I meant before, my words must not be understood as being less important than the Landspit, our National Hospital, and we're going to have it that way and play a very important role in the health system. But I still feel that, as I said earlier, the conversation was too much about Land Hospital at the expense of other health - care factors, such as public health, such as those in the country. There's nothing special about it. Things are what they are, and we float along. But that's for us to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u47	President. Thank you. I think we're gonna do what. A senator argues precisely that there is an increased need to discuss human health and its importance as we discuss the health system, since there is this preemptive value, where we are in the long run to save money. That is why I was very happy when I saw it on the welfare department web during October. that public health policies with a strategy of action would have been approved. I thought it was a very good step, very important one. It specifically includes the importance of working with the communities and that all rural areas in this country will become a healthy society. I know it well has been the town councilman in Mosfellstown. We were the first group to enter this assignment with the surgeon general. I think it's really important. Schools have been following, both preschool, elementary school, and high school, to be health - related schools, and so on. This is very important to all of us. I also agree that the Landspians are our key health center and the importance there is a lot. But as it turned out. Then I also agree that other health institutions play a very important role. I listed to form a Smokeloaf run by the SIBS. Then we can talk about activities that are being run by the United States and that are extremely important to us. This is especially true when we are engaged in some form of work at the plant and a free organization that has done a great deal of good work when it comes to health matters and that is of great importance to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u48	A respectable president. That's a good answer. I am really happy with the direction the conversation is taking, happy with the emphasis on public health, rehabilitation. I may want to add what I just mentioned in my talk earlier, about the health care professionals, that what we may agree on is that we better prepare our system than we have been doing, i.e. to get to the health care providers stronger. If we can get this done, if we can build up the public health and health services, then they'll be worth the long-term money in the health care system. Every time we talk about health matters, we're talking about a huge amount of money. This is what we should look at, and, as I did well, taking an example from both South and Southnes to make better use of health agencies in the country than we have done. I think we all agree on that. This is just a matter of making a good plan, creating a policy and starting work. Happily, a common understanding can be called all sorts of fine words, but this is the case. We need to get this thing going. We've begun. This controversy proposal begins with something. The election also indicated that this was the common will of our members across the council, where we wanted to go. I have a optimistic view that we can get along and that there will be a well - developed, health - care program for all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u49	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I don't intend to keep this far, but I want to come up and express my joy with the emphasis. Councilmen involved in this case are the members of a higher recommendation for a health plan. I agree with many statements there. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention that in the resolution of a new government's policy, it is referred to an assembly of health policy that coordinated and trustd health care, improving public health, which is my special interests and others, and contributing to the health of the people of the country. I hope that the debate here and the requirement of the Declaration is clear evidence that a world of Congress is going to stand together, hold the big words before elections to put the health issues ahead of what was discussed, to build up, and to do this in the highest solidarity. Despite some present and emphasis, it is clear that we, all of us, are all citizens of the country, to share the same interests in this large group of languages. I look forward to the work ahead and believe that this proposal gives me a specific tone for the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u50	Mr. President. It is, of course, a good mind behind this proposal. I like her too. I'm sure it's a matter of time to review whether it's necessary to try to build a better and comprehensive plan or a policy, or what we now choose to call it, in health matters. That will be true, but let's not speak as if we're going off to think about some medical organization, there's a number of things. Some of them are under health care laws. Of course, such goals and other laws are the guidance that is partly on how we plan to think about the structure of our health. They run back decades in time. During the 1960's and 1970's, for example, the number of people who lived in the United States had increased. a milestone in health legislation where health care facilities were actually laid down, and health care was defined as the first stop. At that time much of the development of clinics all over the country, especially in the country, may have been the major involved in this never - to - be - completed work here in the capital area. As a result, there was another way of access to the health system here and more scattered. We have a surgeon's office and his clear and legal role in behalf of the government, etc. Of course, I'm well - meaning, since this is going to be checked and I happen to be in trouble. a welfare committee that offers the suggestion. I sense the spirit in the suggestion a bit, so it is not a matter of identifying the service in the country. That's exactly what I'm saying. This can be done better in this regard. That's a lot to ask. Especially does one have the question: Is it possible to define the basic services that we can rely on in our territories? I think I have to. Today, there have been significant organizational adjustments in this area just in the last few years, where large health facilities that cover parts of the country and whole areas have developed from a few smaller units or institutions. Then it would be very intimate to continue to do this by more define the basic services, the close - up services, which these larger regional health institutions should ensure in their communities, some of which cover almost a quarter of the country's population, such as the National Health Organization, a wide area. The combination is from the fourth largest rural society in the country, Akureyri, and into very small settlements that live in vast distances, such as the northeast corner, etc. For example, it might be possible to consider some extent what was proposed at the time when the first focal point of transport was being tried to set specific goals for travel and so on, as it were, for government responsibilities to see, for example. that everyone would be able to get away from home and be in more special service with less than three hours of travel. Let's go back to health care and nursing. Is it not possible to think that there are only certain distances on how far such service is acceptable? A person may forget the nursing factor in this and the human rights he has to perform such service in his home. Sadly, the situation remains that there are no nursing services available in individual settlements. Thus, those in need of it must move often through a long distance, perhaps hundreds of miles. This means that people are far away from their own homes and people and need family members to take a few hours to travel if they are going to visit family members. This is not welcome. This should include guidelines: No, governments must do what is needed to ensure that certain basic services, such close - up services are available within modest distances. You can do it. It's gonna cost some money. Of course, we need to look at our whole health system. We've been close in here, but time won't allow that discussion. But we have health care as our first stop. In words everyone agrees, at least, there can be any doubt that it was in full effect when it came to providing for the building of the health care system and sufficient funds for it. But hopefully there is no political disagreement that it is the best arrangement to have public health care which allows you to consult a doctor, get access to a nurse, get access to a midwife, which is mother - care and child care, education and prevention work, etc., and that psychological services should be at the first stop, integrated in social services and nursing services in the local community. I think the best model that got on when it was all the best flowering and sort of best - organized health services in Iceland were still in the Eyjafjörður area when health care there was driven by most of the film - making, fully developed, and gave a very powerful service and was integrated with the community service. Then I really think this model worked the way it was supposed to, and it can do best. Then there was a separate hospital in the same place. There was nothing more to be done; there was no need for an endless enunciation. It was practical, well - organized, and productive. Then that's it, good boy. Councilmen, that if we are going to write this health plan or plan solely, we have to deal with the hot potatoes in the equation. How long will it take for people to see the development of public health services, whether it be the special hospital or even health care, to be sick, and the funds are nearly poured through uncontrolled pipes into private business? Is it not reasonable, then, to start by asking the question: Should the job be permitted and granted permission by a private hospital with a slocary to perform orthopaedic surgery? You're going to use tax money for it? Is this a deal to be concluded by health insurance? And the Ministry has permission to do that? What does that mean? This, of course, means that the funds involved will be diluted. This means that this reduces the use of existing public operating rooms and, instead of working down the waiting list, the kidneys drop there and the simple measures flow into the private business, while the official continues to carry all the ◯compliances, all the difficult things. It's just that I think it's completely ridiculous. I'm very excited about going to this job, and I'm ready to be in it. But I hope they really plan to do this and don't turn around when they get to the hot potatoes. We need to deal with them and shape a clear course of action. And I'd like to come to this with Land Hospital and words that were agreed here that he had even got too much attention and would have been in the discussion for the past few years. So I disagree completely. I don't think the Landspit himself was trying to squeeze himself out. The situation there has simply called for much discussion. The overcrowded hospital in delinquency of housing and in extreme trouble over the past few years has been ongoing, normal. And the governor of the Land Hospital has, of course, presented information on the situation, normally. Of course, the land's health - care center is a mother's station. In fact, we expect him to meet all the demands of hospitals in neighboring countries, which are often equipped with a range of 0.5-8.1 million people. True, we are now 338 thousand and something, but we are still a small nation trying to run one specialised hospital. That's more than just saying. Hence, we should not weaken its basis for existence by protracting from it into private business. That's what the Danes would say, Mr. President, I hope I'm sorry I'm sorry to put that Danish, ◯den rene, galne vanvid. It's just that way. It's so ridiculously stupid that it half would be enough. Of course, the land hospital is of utmost importance to us, but it doesn't matter about other health institutions mentioned here, whether in Southnes or in Ness shops, as well as in health care and all of them. [[The president calls.]] The fact that we are dealing with the Hospital does not mean that we are not interested in the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u51	There's no need to remind the President. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has become Icelandic. This is what one learned quickly and well when he was a new senator during his last term. Maybe he'll take it up in return to translate it, because I'm not just doing the right thing through the MRs. At least the President doesn't know what the man was talking about, anyway. A senator, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u52	Mr. President. This won't be far. I just want to celebrate because here's a conquistador proposal to work on a health plan for Iceland. It's very important. As they say, if we don't know where we're headed, there's no way we're going there, we need to know where we're going. This is very positive. As a new senator and a member of a welfare committee committee, I look forward to discussing this matter and taking it further and hoping that this would be something to the highest degree. A health minister is interested in doing this, and we place it in more places than just the medical system. There is more to look to the future. We need to make decisions about where we are heading and take steps toward that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u53	V.E.G. President. It's okay to be called 7. Including, but I'm the 6th. Witchest. V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank you for the discussion and agree with what they're saying. Senators here have spoken. First of all, I want to say something. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the Sveinsson of Sóln, was the first to appear in a talk after me on the importance of looking to the journey, as is indicated in the objective of this proposal. We have united health institutions around the country and if we watch, for example. To the West, the southern and northern coasts are extremely difficult to travel. It is very important to look to geographic issues and various other aspects, as the goals show. At the same time, I agree that there are applications in identifying the situation, and in some cases the ministry could be brought closer to people. We're not talking about losing tens of years back in time, having operating rooms everywhere, and doing everything in the world, but about parishes to specialize in specific projects and become stronger in this area. Hopefully, the case will get into the process of going to the Ministry and making a complete plan. In this context, I would also like to mention that we have access, and we have seen them in recent years to use the Kraga Hospital, and we have, for example, been able to do so. use the Western Health Organization to shorten the waiting list for replacement operations. This needs to be watched, including The format of this schedule. Also, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Dögg Döggar Gunnarsdóttir on the importance of looking at the overall health issues and returning to the use of the Kragas Hospital to take even has a flow problem, as well as her comments on the importance of listening to the professional in this article. We politicians are not experts in these matters, so it is important to listen to those who have educated themselves in these factors and worked and are familiar with the circumstances. In this context, I'd like to mention that there are professionals in the whole country, because as was true in my case before and in my case. The members of the council here have spoken vary greatly in their circumstances, e.g. in the National Institutes of Health and Health, and what is being done. I've got to say something, too. paritaprevir Brutís, my Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, who spoke here in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Dögg Döt about looking at public health. So I wholeheartedly agree, it is very important to look to human health and avoid the plan. These factors affect the health system. We can work with protection and public health because there is a link between this and the health costs. I'd also like to say, as I was about to say in my talk, that it's very important that we're not picking up the bike, we'll talk about what's missing, we'll have to look to the available data and work with them as well as at the same time. At the same time, I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's son, Friðriksson, to explain the importance of mental coercion. The U.S.R. will be an organization and a harmony to handle this matter, and I will say it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son is not to be left behind - in which he says that there are a number of data, there are health legislation and who must be looked at about policies and the importance of identifying the basic services and support we would like to provide and we intend to provide in many health institutions throughout the country. As noted in his case, many health institutions have become largely united, and their territory covers a quarter of the country's territory and is far from going between various work stations. I have to be especially happy, though I'm glad to have everyone. Councilmen on a welfare committee, getting the views presented in a speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's emissary and other factors and is happy to have a man with this great plagion experience. The welfare committee and his point of view on the basis of this strategy. Of course, I want to celebrate the work and contribution of everyone else. senators who want to come to the matter with their point of view. Finally, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen about the importance of having a clear policy on where we want and are going. Finally, I want to thank you for the discussion and how well you're doing. All members of Congress have taken part in this matter. I love it very much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u54	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes and the change I make in terms of health care contracts. My importers are down. S. Logi Brjánsson and Guðjón. The bill was previously proposed to the 145th legislature by members of the United States Congress, which was Sigríður Ingadóttir. The bill is now submitted almost unchanged. As previously said, changes in health insurance laws have been made. There's a line at 40 st. The law on health care negotiations adds two new conditions for having a contract. On the one hand, it is suggested that a minister be allowed to negotiate health care or health care arrangements, such as the 14th, 15, and 17. Health Care Programme, No. 40/2007, the decision of the Generals must be made to determine which agreement to make as well as the main basis for that agreement. This means that ministers, or members of other Parliaments, would make a recommendation to the Council for decision-making where a minister will be assigned to negotiate with certain clinics or clinics, one or more, and that in the conclusion, there will be a clear addition to the commission that the Minister has for the negotiations each time. Other conditions for a contract laid down at 40 st. The law will also apply to agreements made by the Minister to the Generals' conclusions in the absence of specific recommendations. The purpose of this change is that the minister's commission to the democratic elected representatives of the nation at one time is to negotiate with the private partners on the business of important basic health care systems. Privately, a minister can make policy decisions for the health system without having to submit them to the council. It makes us feel utterly unacceptable to the transporters of this bill. The last government's policy was to bring more and more of the foundation of the welfare system into private business. It seems that a new government agrees. In view of that pleasure, the majority of the people need to be respected for public giving of basic services, such as health care. It must be ensured that privators do not trawle in agreement with the public in order to receive their payment without shouldering comparable duties as do public members. It must be ensured that all the people of the country have constant access to the service and that the patient's payment will be kept to a minimum. There, many scholars have noted that private health care is more likely to increase the total cost than it reduces because of high administrative costs, increased monitoring costs, inflexible contracts, and inconsistencies and uninterrupted services. An April 2013 survey revealed that 80% of the population wanted health care to be primarily public. Then, recently over 86 thousand people have signed a list of health care priorities and have put more money in the medical system. The bill also suggests this change in the 40th limit. the management of health insurance that in the agreement for health care, the exchange of profits made in the management of the private sector should be specifically required. On the contract, including the It should be noted that the individual is forbidden to pay for his/her owners' wages. Hence, the provision of this law is an unreserved ban on interest when making contracts for health care and will also be permitted to discuss how to make otherwise a profit. The directive applies to all agreements for health care that are made on the basis of health insurance laws and to specify the context because it has a higher scope than the terms of a-willow 1. This bill. The purpose of this law is obvious, but it is to prevent the public tax, which is devoted to providing health care to citizens, from spending money to owners of associates who have made agreement with ministers for health care services and who are paid in part or completely with the public tax. The tax decided by the General Assembly that it should truly be used by the health system. If there is leftover on the business of a private car which is funded with tax money, the access to investment in the business should be used, thereby increasing the quality of the service, improving the patient's management and working conditions and the education of employees, and contributing to better health services that use public funds in a responsible manner. This suggests the same content in Sweden, where there has been an increase in private welfare services during the past few years that money paid to owners of welfare services have not provided well, and Swedish soybeans have suggested that such sources be forbidden to pay interest. It should be noted that the owners of such enterprises can still pay themselves what they think is right in relation to their business. But they will not be able to pay off interest, but the tax rate of wages is much lower than from pay. They must be in accordance with the regulations of this bill. A respectable president. Finally, I wish for the bill to go. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u55	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. G. ItHarðardóttir a nice review of a planned bill to correct a change in health insurance law. I like this. This is a very sensible thing, and I will support it. The one standing here and my party have this policy, as is said in the company's resolution, to pay attention to private business. Therefore, I find this in a very good way with the policy where private business is not excluded, but it takes more than a Minister's decision to make such a decision. The health system is all of us, as I said in a talk on the preceding subject, we all want to, yes, I dare say that no matter what our type, all Icelanders always have access to a good health system. We would like to limit the payment of people, for with increased payment, there is an increase in discrimination among those who have less in hand and seek less medical care, health care. We do not want that. I'm one of the 80% who wants our health system to be with the government. I believe that it guarantees the equation that really matters to society. Incontrovertible things undermine us, undermine the peace, increase dissatisfaction, and lead to war. As to health, education, and other such services, everyone should have the same access to that service, in my opinion. But I don't know what it said. paritaprevir In addition to personal reform, Oddný G.. The last governmentHarðardóttir policy was to add privatization. I don't have numbers, but I think this is also the case in the 2016 McKinsey report that this policy and this procedure were more pronounced before. But as I say and say, we don't have to be looking forever for guys who did what and how and all this. We need to look to the future. The director of the Land Hospital and other health - care professionals has spoken about these past days in the discussion of the Bible, a private health care program that will weaken our health system, an increase in private business will weaken our health care system. There is good reason to listen to such warnings. This bill goes on to see that if there are any ideas of taking this service into private business, it is dangerous that the decision needs to be passed through the General Assembly, a closer examination, and then a decision will be made. It's not just one person and one department. In addition, I agree with the viewpoint as a painter, eh? paritaprevir "Oddný G. Harðardóttir, went over on interest. " There, too, I agree completely. It is unnatural, at best, that money is paid for. Of course, it should slide back into the business for his own good and for the building up. This is good. I'm gonna back it up, and I hope they're gonna get good publicity and money from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for your transfer, please. paritaprevir A daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, for delivering this concierge proposal offered a second time to change the health insurance law. I also want to use this opportunity to thank you for all the discussions about health care and the Senate arrangement. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir on health plan. Health services are an enormously important group for the entire population, but they are also very sensitive. Those of us who have worked in that field know this well. The land is on the ground, and the population's habitats are changing. It is not unusual for us to consider changes in how we want to do this service. This is on equal terms, and so is geographic. This may include a government policy. Not a regional policy because by building health care across the country, we also enable professionals to live far and wide throughout the country. Transport has changed and improved. This should be taken into account. And since then, there has been an increase in both the population and the individual people, the heads of the country. We know more about health care and health than we knew 20 years ago. We are much more aware of the quality of our ministry. The cry for the best possible service gets richer and richer. Also, there is a change in the attitude of health - care professionals. That's one of the subjects. In recent times, a doctor is ready to sit down alone in a small town and bind himself on shifts day out and day in for months. It's a past. We must aim at our work to have professionals who want to work in health services in the country. Then consider these factors, where we should serve, where we should have clinics, clinics, and services, as well as what we should do. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon came in. And what does basic service have to do with it? Some say, for example, at each clinic, there should be one. There is a potential for x-rays. People may not agree on this point to be taken. There are these matters that we need to make an agreement. It is very difficult to do within each health facility because it is so fragile at home. Then there are the health - care features of the country that are eight. What power and assignment should we give and assign to them, and what independence, professional, and financial? There's tracts for part of the country, we can say. We know that in recent years health care in Iceland has been through severe hardships. We haven't gotten our weapons yet. This was reflected in the discussion that was intense on the affairs of the Land Hospital, this most important health center on the land, right before Christmas, in the process of making donations. Men have talked about a lot of attention on the land's part, but it is, of course, the most important medical facility in the country, the health facility we all look to if there is much need. It's just that way. It is not unusual if this institution is given much attention and stressed by both employees and executives, that its knots are well-created. But now, the National Hospital is not supposed to do all things. He should not be a beginning and an end to all things. Not all of these are life - threatening, and there are many medium - sized doctors and health - care programs that can be provided elsewhere but at home. It was introduced earlier that such an approach could be made, e.g. On the southwest corner, in Southnes would be a medical facility that would be in the fields of the airport. Is it not possible to think that one of those hospitals on the southwest corner stressed the importance of providing, for example, one of them. Foreign health care? This is of course serious concern when our largest health care organization finds it difficult to fulfill its legal role because of lack of money. We know the situation of other health centers in the country. The urban population, in the largest urban area of the country, has well-finished health institutions. They've got a job that's not used. I suppose the use of operations at the clinics at Acdéri, Selephoss, at Keflavík, is about 50-707 percent. Even if they are well - used in other ways. These institutions could be active participants on a number of projects on a larger scale, including in a field of action, if that was the case with the government's mind. But it's only heading in a different direction. The most important thing in all of this is that although the situation in these three institutions I mentioned is fine, that is, for example. Two impressive operating rooms in Chefavík will be of little use if we don't have a trained, good manpower. We lived in Cheflavík, but we may no longer have but a very small amount of access because of their limited use of operating rooms. The most important thing is to have trained men. However, this does not prevent them from making much better use of organizations, as noted earlier in the Senate case, the staff is much more mobile than the patients. Large pressure is being put on the increased part of your health care provider. Of course, private people simply view this sector as a lucrative business and, as a matter of fact, do not hide it. Health care, however, is not the same as any other quality. These are priceless. A private service that operates on a business basis is a means of making profit, as there are billions of dollars in investments. The experience of other nations of this kind is common in one kind; it is skimmed and specialized in relatively simple selections and lucrative projects. There is no total perspective and responsibility. In general, this is not an emergency service. Opportunities for dealing with projects or a step - by - line view, or if things go wrong, are often left to countries, along with public health institutions, which have to deal with the often time - consuming, mixed, and complex cases. The educational programme is left behind, research and training. These are vital factors and mainly community projects that public health agencies, in our case in the Landspians, take the lead. More important, it is a big misunderstanding that by doing so, we are reaching the goal of reducing the cost of health care. In most places, experience is that the breath is breathless. In addition, in general, the ministry will be less than or equal. It is harmful to pursue these pathways now that the general health system is built up with financial resources, and we are still waiting for a more real policy in the seminary. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to say: It is absolutely unacceptable that a minister alone and without the presence of the council can make such dramatic and targeted decisions, to bring sensitive service, as is a matter of public health care, into private hands. It's daring, to say the least. Especially since it is contrary to the stated and confirmed will of the people when asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u57	V.E.G. President. I wanted to give a brief talk and to welcome the subject and thank you. The members of the United States for bringing up this good issue, especially in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I have several points on several magazines that woke up in the background. First, though, I'd like to discuss what is stated on the bill with the bill that the purpose of these changes is that the minister has clear the authority of the democratic elected representatives of the nation each time to negotiate with the private people and that he must have that authority. It is very important for the minister to have clear authority. I say this, that he has declared the commission from the Council, to come to an agreement. He cannot decide for himself just how and what course to take in health matters. I believe this is closely related to the issue we discussed above on the importance of policy development. Like what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen said before then we need to know where we're headed and which direction we're going to go. If you look at it from a reasonable point of view, you'll also have a positive attitude. Ministers of each time do not have to make this decision on their own, that there is a long-term policy case, on their backs, and they know what commission they have from democratic agents, however. Councilmen at the Council of Congress, the World of Congress, to decide which direction to go. Second of all, I wanted to mention by permission of a president's permission in a report with this excellent bill: In agreement with the government, a private person needs to be paid without caring for similar duties and obligations to public citizens. This is also very important. Last week we learned that the surgeon had granted clinical permission to open a waiting unit to shorten the waiting list for certain surgical procedures. As a result, we both have what we need. Councilmen, I, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, and why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, requested meetings on certain committees for the case. Tomorrow morning we have a meeting at night. The welfare committee with them for this matter. I had a lot of conversations with professionals this weekend, but professional people with strong opinions and opinions have been in touch this weekend after a news release on these factors, describing their opinions on these matters to me, and they're as different as there are many of them. But what came up and stood very high in this discussion is concern by professionals that in the private network the companies can decide what actions are going to be performed. They can choose more practical measures, which may be more efficient, while we have state - bearing hospitals and health institutions who are obliged to take any action, whether it is practical or not. I hadn't quite realized that. We often hear the discussion that it's just fine, we get more money by entering the private system. However, in my conversations with professionals, it was also concluded that the benefits of the government cannot be compared with those of the physical field behind, the privateized companies can choose the actions while the others are required to take everything. So I think it's a very good text that's shown in the report on this. At the same time, I'd like to discuss only what is stated in the report, with the permission of a president: The bill also suggests this change in the 40th limit. the management of health insurance that in the agreement for health care, the exchange of profits made in the management of the private sector should be specifically required. On the contract, including the Depending on the individual's choice, it is forbidden to pay interest to its owners. This is also considered very important because it is a medical matter. The Kingdom gives some support to this factor. It is the tax paid by the public, and there must be a obligation and a very clear limit to what will happen to this profit. Of course, we want the staff to have a good work position, patients a good position, and equipment, and be very clear about the fact that if profit comes from this article, it will go to them. I'm on this one. I'm looking forward to it, sitting there. a well-being committee, to take it up, and to think that it can have certain additive effects on health policy guidelines and that it will be good to take all of this together. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u58	Mr. President. Just a short one again. I want to celebrate this good bill. As a new member of the well - being committee, I look forward to learning about this subject because we have to examine it. I agree with what. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir says that this has something to do with what we were discussing earlier on the health program. When it comes to such policy-making decisions as there are, I think they should be subject to the council. In fact, I would go further and say that we should bear this issue under the nation because we have to decide together as a society where we want to go. What I was trying to say before, and I was having trouble because I was trying to translate an English saying, is that if we don't know which port to sail, there's no problem. It is important that we decide where we want to go in these matters. There are many issues now that are closely related, such as the future policy on health care, this matter as well as a special discussion on the matters of disability, which will be very good and interesting. And it will be discussed in the morning on the welfare committee. Then we'll have guests and talk about it. It's very cool that we take this conversation and make decisions for the future. Making money into the health system is very dangerous. It is by the nature of a business that aims to improve customers. It is, in fact, contrary to what we're going to do in the health system, we don't want to grow there. It is vital that we take precautions for the health program. We can, for example. to save in the medical system. It's just a question of a common decision about what kind of community we want to live in. Do we want to reduce stress and stress by creating financial security and avoiding uncertainty about the future? These factors have a direct impact on health costs. Do we want to create a decent life for disability? It directly affects the health system. As the situation exists today, we are overly eager to move from one system to another. I think that's because there's a lack of overall perspective on where we want to go as a society. I challenge members of Congress to take this one step further and ask the people first. Let us make that decision together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-31-22.u59	Mr. President. Just at the end of this discussion, I want to thank her and thank her for her positive and good talks. I don't think there's a shortage of this bill, and I think it's important that it goes very fast and through the council and it's going to be approved. I realize there may be more time for policy, even though I understand that this is going to work together. But there are danger signals. They have just offered out medical centers in the capital area, and now they are pressing for a private hospital. These are major health - care decisions, the services of the nation, and the public system now. In addition, as I mentioned in my talk earlier, it is the opinion that much of the Icelanders feel that health care is the most important thing to do in public business. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that such a decision lies with one person and goes past the council. There is no way that we can accept it, so we need to accept this bill soon, and before ministers start taking advantage of these sources in the law. Because this was talking about policy and wind and wind, I thought of Lísa in Wonderland and the cat, when Lísa asked the cat, "What's my way?" And the cat said, "Where do you want to go?" She said, "Well, I just want to go somewhere, " she says, just something. I'm sure you'll get there, tell the cat, especially if you go far enough. I think we should keep this in mind when we're taking our policies to such important matters as health care and the matters we've been discussing here today.
