ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u1	The President has received a letter on the revocation of an oral query. Birgitta Jónsdóttir calls a question for an oral response on the icicle again. 267, 170 cases, of the UN's optional U.S. Protocol against torture (OPAT).
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u2	Madam President. For over 30 years, there has been an ambulance operated on in Ólaundur, which was collected at the time by the Red Cross of the department there. At this point, the National Institute of Health has announced that the vehicle and the funds used for the ambulance's operation will be used to hire a nurse to the hospital on deck. This is, in effect, a form of overemphasis, after the union between the institutions, which the director has repeated to a financial committee, even showing up. in the finals we'll discuss below. Tourists are under great pressure by the Grinch and the circumstances in which people often find themselves in difficult and increasing traffic, walking, driving, or flying with helicopters at the highest mountaintops, rising each year, and often a large number traveling at a time. Who hasn't heard, so I'm just saying of a blocked MRI tunnel with its own danger? The Grinch is a big, tough area, and the ambulances of the area are going together for about an hour. 400 medical transfers over the year. The ambulance in Olafurværd is located at the centre of the Grinch, and therefore always with the shortest possible response time. if you have to call out an extra ambulance. Last year, 107 were removed from Ólafsarður, 181 from Sigludar, and 125 from the Dalviðar. At the same time, we know that there are often times when both cars in the Mountainland are traveling, and we know that there are times when the response times are important. Each minute can matter, and it certainly has proved to be more than once. Extremism has been so fortunate to have good and well - educated people ordering that when an ambulance arrives, it is completely incomprehensible that the plan is to form a team of field teams in cooperation with rescue teams and/or firefighters to perform the first possible response before an ambulance arrives from Sgt. or Dalendur. I've been standing here before today in this situation, and I sure hope I don't have to do it again. We're talking about important security issues, and I challenge the health ministers and the members of the council here to secure funding so that an ambulance may remain in Ólaundrum.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u3	Madam President. There is no doubt about it. The energy exchange in the private car sector has begun and is multiple. Methane, a combination of alcohol, a biodiversity, and so on, you can see all of this, but the electrovasion is also in a tremendous swing, and by the end of 2016, electrical vehicles were more than one thousand. There's a lot of waste on the price of cars. It must continue to be done in this way; it must also be demonstrated that the ecosystems and the disposal volumes of the vehicles used for disposal are lighter than ecosystems and emissions of comparable traditional cars. Otherwise, there's little work to do, and it's hard to convince the buyers. Foreign fuel is also important. It is therefore taken too low under the head of a proposed energy exchange programme. I'm headed for a special discussion on the exchange of energy and internal fuel at the highest level. Minister. Free electricity has gone too slowly, and too little public money has been spent on them. Now there's only 67 million. K. of public money in the year three years for provision. Soon, energy sales are going to consider the direct sales of electrical energy at loading stations and the state to consider losing income when the use of oil and gasoline is reduced. Does that mean they're going to put a mile charge on electric cars? Is it proper to stop the sales of new cars with conventional sources of energy within the particular year, as we have heard? I call attention to this because we are praised for the action program on climate and the clock is unusually fast in human worlds before climate change and its consequences. That the transport sector of this strategy is being considered on both the income and the paying side. It is worth remembering that profit in cash is not always the only right measure of success. And by the way, Iceland's non-carbon share should be the objective of all of us as much as our left green policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u4	Madam President. We have a worldwide record of building apartments. An ongoing rise in real estate prices is evident. Anion bank predicts an increase in housing over the next two years. The growing domestic demand and subsidence and progress in labour market recovery will contribute to that development. The value of living in an apartment will increase faster than the cost of a special property. The demand will continue to increase, and construction projects will follow, but it will not satisfy demand. The price of housing depends on markets, supply and demand. There's a lot more demand than an invitation to an apartment building. The increase in market effects of tenants has resulted in their buying entire apartment houses to expand their property collection and, at the same time, provide tenants with access to housing. The appearance of these tenants has caused a growing number of people to fight for apartments and rent prices. It is worst for those who do not have their own housing and who do not have a family of their own. In addition, the growth of tourists has resulted in a large percentage of the city's residence in Reykjavík being converted into an Airbb apartment that is not on the market. That's what we know. Money markets have grown dramatically. Since 2004 the number of tenants in an apartment building has increased by 50%. It's been four years since the Continent proposed emergency housing operations. The last government wanted nothing to do with them. It is safe to say that conditions in a real estate market would be different now if the proposals had been followed and if the people were under the control of this country. Now we have proposed a building of a minimum of a thousand apartments a year in a social rented system. Now we're testing a new government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u5	V.E.G. President. But in the 18th century, some people of the world have rejected their language, saying poets, pointing out that they were concerned that the dance party was taking over Icelandic. We are not in that situation today, but we are faced with the fact that the English language is becoming increasingly common to people of all ages. What worries me and why I bring it up here is that it's just a fact that in elementary schools, young children and teenagers speak in English. It is very good to be bilingual or possess more than one language, but it tells us that we really need to be on guard. We need to be careful whether we're going to see English die or we're going to protect it. One of the best ways to do this is to read. I've been on it before. I believe it is extremely important that as early as the first year, parents begin reading to their children and therefore continue reading with them, reading to them, listening to them. I think the most part of parents is in there. Then, of course, the schools come to support the reading skills of the Icelanders, thus strengthening the language. The language is something we have. If we tear it down, we may not succeed in making it come back to life. I think of Gaelic, an extinct language, but still the pride of Scots and Ira, who stress to keep up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u6	V.E.G. President. There are many things to discuss today about the work of the council. These include those who have approached a number of people. Councilmen say that we already have the highest power. A health minister has granted permission that the first private hospital service in this country can begin to render its services. I haven't heard the news of that stuff from the highest level. The minister of health and this matter has not been put to the test. General. So I have no choice but to ask Aldulis's symposium, which is the highest. A health minister has taken the largest step in personalization of the medical system without bringing the matter to the council. Can somebody go for a second? A member of the government informed us about the matter? Another thing I'm going to mention is asking questions why. Senators. I have quite a number of queries and, as it turns out, some of them have been answered and others have not. I even have some. queries for an oral response directed to the highest level. Transporter of February 22, 2000. It's a question about roading the Forest and Alexander's Airport. It is been a month since these inquiries were submitted at the council. These queries have been put in writing three times, with the program "Preservation Time" here at the General Assembly. All this time, I have agreed to this and have been ready to take the discussion. But this has always been at the top of the world. Secretary of transportation. I can understand the highest. Ministers have a lot to do and can't get into all question period, but the wait is long and I hope this case will be on the agenda for the next question period at which point. General. Maybe we've run to the highest. Minister on meeting for this inquiry class?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u7	Madam President. It was an instrument to see if I should be above my head in this discourse. This morning, shortly after eight, I was notified that I had been number 27 in a row. The senators are here to make their way to the rosary. Then some wise men began to look into the matter further, and it became evident that quite a few of the people who were before me had reported themselves available by 8 p.m. This remark was made that ended with the ordering of things, and I had to prepare again what I was going to talk about. I decided to talk about this, about the activities of the council, and about these special conditions we live in, that at 8:00 hours, members of the Senate sit and email, some by hand, others by computer systems, some by atomic clocks in Switzerland, to be sure to be on time, or some sort of trick thing - or trick thing, is just adapting to the plays. I think it's completely off-limits. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I think it's time for the Senate administration to take this into consideration in good cooperation with the council and members of the council and develop some system where this will be divided out in a fair way, some sort of greeting system, or at least Any other system that we can all be reasonably comfortable with. I don't think it's a good way to work, though it's nice to e - mail and schedule it. It took me a long time to figure out how to set my e - mail. I felt it out before I could, but I sent them to the wrong e - mail, so it didn't work for me. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. President looking into these matters. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u8	A respectable president. It is a long time for this council to appear at the beginning of each assembly. The benefits are good, and it is due to them to have respect. I do not deny that I sometimes envy those members of the council who can sit next to their members and share information quickly and quickly. Of course, there are systems that can do this by writing something on a computer screen, but no system is secure, so I have doubts about using it. This is an arrangement that is known here and not in many other places. I know that this is noticed and sometimes admired in many countries where it is mentioned. On the other hand, admiration has not been greater than that I don't know that many countries actually adopted that system after hearing of it. For myself, it would be sobering to ask ourselves, " Should I not try to organize people here by members of the council? ' There is nothing sacred in that subject. In my old sceptical environment, we were not afraid to change things. This is one of the things we could try to do for a month, two months and see what it would be like. If things got bad, it'd be just called the nightmares months that Pawel set in, but otherwise we could see if this was something we wanted to stick to. This may give people the opportunity to communicate more quickly to members of a group, creating a specific mattress in the hall, which could be fun outside. [[For example: Are you complaining about your partner?]] I make it clear that I really appreciate my partner. Of course, he's up here so often that I don't get much time to talk to him. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u9	Madam President. I'm gonna have a word with what. paritaprevir The Friðbertsson of Trausti Fitzherbert... of the government's budget policy. Recently, in unsubstantiated queries, the highest was rejected. Financial Ministers, for example, use of the following means of revenue: fictitious fiscal taxes, high income taxes, fiscal taxes, and incremental financing taxes. The government's five-year financial policy states that expenses will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product. Today, expenses are 41%. In other words, if economic growth is not continued on high ground, the government will not be able to add needed health capital, education, or a major infrastructure, which all classes praised for elections, including the government groups. Of course, the quality of the baby should be used to ensure social stability and prepare us for lean years that will inevitably come. Now, however, the goal is to continue our partnership. Hv. The council members who have protested the removal of a road transport minister and expressed concern about the small structure of the platform may have in mind one thing. This is where these cold greetings are being sent back to the province. It is unclear whether there is room to improve the weak health system or to turn back protection against educational programs. Then our roads will continue to cremate under our feet. It is then appropriate to remind the same senators of what the budget is going to bring if a financial crisis occurs, and a financial minister is asked to make money on those who are very well - equipped. They need surgical intervention. As a result, everyone can imagine. The question is, debate. A senator's concern is due to the consequences of the rule that there will be no room for necessary transportation, including Aeroplane sound at Akureyri and a Berfjörður? Now we've got a what? A senator spoke for this structure. He wants to change the rule? [[The president calls.]] If he does not want it, how will he seek money from these projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u10	Madam President. Thank you for the question. The idea behind the budget policy that we are working with today under financial policy is to limit annual spending growth and work as a maintenance of the government. That's right, the Senator comes in, that's where we're thinking about the fluctuation and thinking about it for a longer time than we have in general done in the past few years. This is the proportion of land production, 41.5%, so with increasing land production, there will be greater opportunities for more investments and government management. But we have really never managed to harness the government in this way and to be a bit disciplined. Of course, it is difficult for you to talk about projects, transportation, and various areas over the years to get into a budget and start thinking things out of government management and income. We're trying to deal with these rules. This is the fourth rule of the law on public finances, in financial policy, which is produced in this way. The main purpose of financial policy is to promote economic stability in the country over a longer period of time. I'm not going to come here and promise all beautiful things, but I didn't do it before the election, so it's clear, I didn't promise you everything beautiful. We have to think this through for a long time. Iceland and I have never been able to land any economics in Iceland in a reasonable way. This is an attempt to achieve a single landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u11	V.E.G. President. The image that is being drawn from the purchases of several hedge funds at the Orion bank, which has been called systematically important financial institutions, becomes increasingly strange. Now, I'm not supposed to leave what I'm saying here as a general disturbance in foreign investors, they're welcome in the same way as we Icelanders would like to be able to invest in foreign lands. I doubt, though, that we will buy systematicly important financial institutions in another country. But let it lie in between things. It is of particular interest to note that the buyers of the purchase have been unable to describe the benefits of finding foreign investors. There are the peer prime minister and secretary of finance, each of whom seems to get a knee cut just by hearing a foreign language. V.E.G. President. One buyer has been found to be a source of information that has exposed the lives of crime in Africa and has had to pay the cost of billions. At the top of the stock market, that fund has been placed in a trash company for credit purposes, and the prospects are bad. U.S. newsroom reported last night that the footprinting of two funds, a total of 17% shares in Arion Bank, ended in the Cayman Islands. The bank manager of Arion's bank also did not survive when he declared that it was part of a real investment. Actually, by permission of the President, he added: The bank was unable to know which characters are behind the fund, which bought nearly 30% shares in Arion Bank. To put it this way: Although he does not know which characters are behind him, he is confident that these are real investments. That's a good result. Of course, it is pity for a man; he does not speak down his masters. V.E.G. President. I think the words of the absurd theater were used for less reason. I agree with what. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir: The people deserve better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u12	V.E.G. President. I think I'm the first man who's not in the Northeast District up here. But I want to grab the ball from what? paritaprevir The mother of Þórunn's Egilsdóttir. I am quite concerned with how many people, especially politicians, are reacting to these reports about selling 30% of Arion banks. I understand we're concerned about property. I want some information. Still, we must be careful not to get into an undisputed discussion, for it can be harmful to all of us. This is a financial enterprise that needs credibility. We have a system, we have a surveillance facility, an FME that supervises this operation. It is important that we not get ahead of ourselves in this discussion because if we harm financial companies of this size - some even encourage a raid on such a bank - we are harming ourselves and harming an Icelandic financial company. [[Up front.]] So we need to be careful. So I suggest that the discussion of this subject be balanced and that we be very careful about all statements, for what we say can have a powerful impact on how others act. I don't want to see that we encourage people the most in the world that we're going to face with this atrocious situation. Let the officers who do the law do their job and then take up the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u13	Madam President. More than a year ago, the Icelandic government stopped sending the refugees back to Italy for news of the unacceptable situation of refugees in that country. That bad decision was now turned in the years of the last year. Italy is what we call in a country where foreigners are safe. That's a very difficult concept. While a state is secure in the sense that it does not have a balance, both government and legal systems, it can be anything but secure for certain individuals and groups. There are too many examples. Among other things, Amír Shokrgozar's case has been cited as an Iran hospice hunter recently sent back to Italy in the power of the Order of Dublin. Amir had to flee his homeland because he was a homosexual. For that, people can be killed in Iran. The first European country he came to during his flight was Italy. Italy proved to be far from secure for Amir. He was sexually abused in the refugee camp. After that, he lived on the street for months before coming here to Iceland less than two years ago and applying for asylum. During that time, Amír has taken root in this region and made friends. He has found love and has long tried to marry his beloved, but he has not received because the Icelandic government has charged him with paperwork from them in Irish. Let's just stop. Yes, our management government is charging a fugitive for papers from the country he's fleeing from because of homosexuality, papers so he can enter a sexual marriage. How will the Irish respond to that request? Now reports come that Amír, the man we sent out from the country, was shown to be in his pursuit of refuge in Italy. So they're going to send him back to Iran if nothing is done. Our responsibility is ours. And because I'm the best. General Minister of Justice here in a parallel hall: Justice Minister must act. [[The president calls.]] I find it quite crazy that a man with a life and a family in this country could end up on the streets in Italy and even be executed in Iran because of the fact that Iran.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u14	President has to ask. Parliaments to respect the time limit given during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u15	Madam President. First, I'd like to express my satisfaction with a lawsuit. paritaprevir Jón, son of Valdimarsson, and Pawel Bartoszeks, who has now fled from his side, another arm. I'd like to call the attention of the United States and the entire nation to the excellent article Guðmundsson, who appeared in the core yesterday on the premises. The article bears the heading ◯Iceland is the only country in Europe that allows for a safe housing bed. This headline, says the September 23, 1955, is taken out of the national wish to address the housing market. In his article, Guðmundur compares the circumstances in their facility, i.e. in 1955, and now, in 2017. Guðmundur's conclusion is that today's situation is quite similar then. I think he hit the nail on his head, to some extent at least, and it's sad. Rather, it must seem that we have little in the right direction in these matters. We have had a houseowner's policy, or an apartment owner's policy, perhaps in and out of an interest for a lifetime of carefree so that some of the employees' investments were involved in concrete tanks that would later be sold to enjoy their fruits. All right. There's nothing wrong with people investing in concrete, if you please. But I believe that the state should do more to provide people with a roof over their heads. For example, by promoting a favorable tenet - especially by certain restrictions - that of raising rent prices, as in some countries. Besides, it would be normal for me to have the State rob my own tenants, where those whose feet are down may be trapped. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u16	President. I can't believe we're going to repeat the game once more, selling on banks. We're getting a report on the sales of the Farm Bank next week, and now we're receiving reports of 30% shares in Arion Bank. We don't know who's buying again. Again, we do not know what the consequences will be. President. This smells familiar. By purchase of 99.99% shares, investors will avoid falling under UNECE surveillance. It is obvious that in this process of sales, the edge of what is legally legal is the number that has not happened by chance. It is deliberately sending the finger to lawgiver, for it may be obvious that law would include those with less than 10% shareholders who have no concept, were set for a purpose. The bank manager will appear and proudly report that foreign investors are successful and believe in investing in Iceland. If I recall correctly, HölfánssonÓlafsson president of Afron's bank, responded in exactly the same way as Hreiðar Sigurðsson, the bank manager of Copenhagen, when Al Thani was supposed to have so much faith in Icelandic banks that he wanted to buy a 5% share in the bank. People were sentenced to prison because of that kind of operation. They're playing with F.O.B. again. They're playing with the legislature. They're playing ball with the people. Could it be that the lawgiver is going to sit and watch this charismatic attitude; an ostentatious deception?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u17	A respectable president. In a special discussion of the report on the property of the Icelanders in the tax industry, Prime Ministers assured us of the members of the Parliament and the Icelanders in general from the council, to witness directly to the secretary's words, by permission of the president: The report was being completed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. I thought this was an interesting statement, and I wondered when the media had been answered that the report was about to be completed. Perhaps after the report was completed, I asked myself. In order to get to the bottom of that, I sent a request to the Ministry of Financial Affairs and asked when the media had been informed, when the media asked for information about the report, and then what was answered. Last night, the answer came to me. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ Communicating with the media on the progress of the report until publication was all followed by inquiry. - That. From the media. In response to the Ministry, eight written requests from five media requests were received between October 27, 2016, and January 10, 2017. The request from October 27 was answered by the Ministry on November 2, after election, with reference to the minister's intention that the report be publicly introduced at a new assembly that was not made. It is made clear that the code of ethical initiative was not met by the minister. It says that the media were not answered for campaigns on matters that definitely concerned why we were choosing in October, a case that the prime minister himself chose not to vote, a case related to the Prime Minister's personal matters. No one else is responsible because the report was entrusted to a position other than prime minister. There is no other responsibility to lie to the nation than to the prime minister. And no one takes responsibility. Why not? Confidence in the Council will continue to be part of a bunch of junk if we allow such irresponsible behavior to continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u18	President has to ask. A senator to guard his words here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u19	Madam President. It is only natural to make the most of the provision for a job. It's not about that, it's about creating a special agency around one minister. I would have thought in 2017 that we were discussing a different arrangement of affairs in the Council of Government, more modern, flexible, not creating a new social security number and a concrete box around one cabinet. I won't support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u20	Madam President. As mentioned in the discussion, this Ministry is no doubt being developed in order to create a new Minister, and perhaps the Ministers cannot work together as well as other ministers in other matters, it may well be. However, this is a good conclusion in the case, which is that these very intangible issues and as stated in the law then, if they are, we divide them to the Ministry. On the one hand, it is talking about the affairs of the state of justice that the Minister of Justice is taking over in this new Ministry of Justice, moving a special Ministry of Justice to assist with this, on the other hand, transport and community, rural politics. Then we have a special minister who has a special Ministry Secretary and can concentrate on that. We think it's a good suggestion. This is a better job management. The management board ensured that all supporting services do not move directly but would be contrary to the Ministry. That's exactly what we're working on, so we think it's a good development and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u21	A respectable president. At the same time as I don't think this proposal is so well-designed, it's not based on any of the estimates made at the Council of the Council, the reformal proposals adopted by the General himself on how the administration should be arranged, especially after a collapse, I respect every government every time to set matters as they please. The government has the right to accept what she wants. Therefore, I do not comment on it, even though I had chosen to have been handled professionally, especially when it comes to power, the government is a member of a class that has had new and better, improved practice on a speedy floor. I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u22	A respectable president. A respectable president asked me to take care of my words earlier. I'm not quite sure what to say. I'd appreciate it if she explained it so that I wouldn't stumble about it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u23	I'd like to add if the president could refer to the articles of Congress that support the decision to ask the senator to look out for him. True, it is possible to do such a thing, e.g. if you say "fuck." I've asked the Congress's legal office what that means, and that's very unclear. But we need to get it straight from the president exactly what he means and sees what articles, where he is authorized, in effect, to have a measure of cooling effect on the Senate debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u24	President. Yesterday, we welcomed the freedom of expression. I just want to remind you that there is little more precious than the freedom of expression and the importance of knowing why the president considers them to be careful of his words and exactly what it is so that we senators do not experience under any circumstances that such a reminder from a president is dependent on the details or tastes of a president at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u25	Madam President. I have to agree with that. I can't figure out what it was like. A senator said that helped the president. I'm beginning to think it's quite peculiar. You must not use a word here. You have to be in the dress here, according to old habits. But it's okay to lie, it's okay to refuse to answer. I think the General should be much more concerned with whether a man is telling the truth than with what he uses. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u26	A respectable president. I have to agree with someone else. Councilmen who have spoken up. What were the exact words of a dignified president, and how can we prevent this from repeating itself? Often, the president says something in a talk chair, but it never explains exactly what it is. And so that we can make an informed decision regarding the continuation of the council and what words we use, it would be good to get a better report for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u27	President. I challenge the president to make it a custom here that when the Ministers don't respond to members of Congress or ask in return when a clear answer is required - we play a surveillance role with the executives, and it happens repeatedly here that the Ministers practice the game of not answering, never be clear-spoken. And there have even been times when ministers were wrong here. This has been proved repeatedly. I suggest, instead of being ashamed of the way the senators dress or what words they might use to appeal to the president, that the president adopts and shows that this is the president of the Generals, not the Minister's, and simply let the Minister hear it when they disrespect the General Council here in a storm, for years, for decades, decades. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u28	Madam President. Iceland and I have been able to build a pension system that is jealous of most nations. It is the strength of the Icelandic labour people and the strength of the Icelandic economy. So I can say that the pension fund is our party egg, a common party egg. Total property accounts for about 3,500 billion k. During the next 12 to 1515 years, the funds will likely double and reach 7,000 billion. There is hardly an idea here that the work of Icelandic employment or construction is made different from that of the pension fund and that it is a priority. There are some things that need to be considered. In an interview with the Morning Press a few years ago, Bjarni Benediktsson, U.S.A. Prime Minister, that he was deeply concerned that the pension fund had become a major business venture. He said, under the permission of a president: ▪ They've brought in between 40 to50% of all registered shares. Have become very busy in many other places, both in unscrupulous associates and in all kinds of funds. They are, in fact, prominent investors in most parts of the world where something is going on today. With those words, the greatest expression was made. One prime minister worries, and I believe they are valid. The pension fund has become the dominant commercial position. The danger is, of course, that we are seeing a government gathering on a few hands where the power will be held by a small group, from banks to grocery stores, from the media to airlines, from telecommunications to sea streets, etc. However, much of Iceland's population has no influence or no impact when it comes to how much of their pay is set aside and how it is prepared for retirement. No one can choose a pension fund except when it comes to special savings, and it is an exception if funds are allowed to influence the people in the management of that pension fund. Blöndal, the late United Kingdom member of our Independence Council, was a fighter for what he called the democracy of the pensions and laid at least Three times a bill of direct choice for the head of the pensions or treasurers. At the beginning of this month, the newspaper published a report quoting a poll that revealed that 97% of the population want to have the freedom to choose a pension fund. Few fewer, or 95%, wanted to choose who were in the management of these pension funds. The following article in the Morning newspaper was discussing these matters. As a result, executives of the industry saw the reason to answer the person who was right here, who was good. It was not surprising that they did not agree with the view that it was possible to promise funds themselves to choose a government or to have the freedom to choose a pension fund, but I felt uncomfortable reading the article and witnessing the tip shown by the executives of the Society of Employment, not ready. So I have a few questions to the highest level. Secretary of the budget: Who does he consider to be the pros and cons of legalizing the liberty of paid people to choose a pension fund, i.e. freedom of choice and competition between pension funds? Is it desirable to increase the competition between pensions? In what ways can a business partner's influence on the policies and investments of the pension fund be enhanced? [[The president calls.]] If not by allowing them to vote directly on governments, how? [[The president calls.]] Is it not desirable that treasuremates have more influence than they do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u29	Madam President. I'll start by thanking the advert, okay? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, for bringing up a matter of pensions and important aspects of their activities. First, the question is, Is it reasonable to legalize the freedom of employees to choose a pension fund? Generally speaking, I am a follower of freedom, and I believe that having the freedom to choose has meaning in itself. It gives people the opportunity to seek material wealth, which, for example, is in a way that makes them feel good for some reason. for investment policies, rights, or a good service. After compliating the pension rights at the labour market, those who now work for the government who do not have a choice of pension fund should welcome freedom. It would be necessary to ensure that pension funds were open to all so that they could not be put out of breath so that they could not be rejected as sources of high - risk jobs. In view of what is now, if the employees had a choice in which funds they would pay, they would likely be compared to the current energy load. The financial status of the funds would need to be similar, for later funds would become more successful. In fact, it is reasonable to think of the spread of the disability burden between pension funds with special social insurance funds, so that there are no differences in pensions due to a massive energy burden. And it's also important that pension policy does not keep members from sharing in the social security. If there are some disadvantages to freedom, it may be noted that individuals who often change funds eventually have rights in many funds, which can lead to problems and further costs. In addition, it may be wondered whether the importance of the support funded by the labour market may be reduced by the changes in systems. But I'll tell you what. A senator is my main opinion that competition is generally good and likely to increase services and reduce costs. Hv. A senator also asks how to increase the impact of funds on pension policy and investments, e.g. when the command comes. It is difficult to say what one arrangement is better than another. Today, funds are already operating with both corporate democracy and government democracy, and perhaps even more single funds placed directly on the hands of professional unions and union union unions. All benefits have advantages and flaws. The problem with corpsaving is that it is through either the online vote or its attendance at annual meetings where relatively few come to decisions about government and the change in approved ones. I can name the pension fund a Life Job that has voted for a year's meeting. They tried to handle this by offering an online vote but did not prefer much more than usual to attend a annual meeting at the same time. It can also be noted that the funds in which funds were directly chosen for control were not better off than others in the crash, whether they had a direct relationship between them or not. The staff funds now have a representative democracy, at least when it comes to choosing the representatives of the employee. It directly affects the management of its trade unions and thus affects the management of pension funds. Finally, the arrival of professional drivers in the management of pension funds has been criticized. The reason for their approach has always been that employers benefit from the good use of their funds. The arrival of professional drivers has been an important part of the agreement on the pension system. I, on the other hand, put a question mark on the fact that moneymates against investment policy unless they are within limited limits. In many cases, there have been ideas that pension funds can drain ethnic agreements. Also, money is being brought from funds, money that is to be brought in as best in any way possible, so it is not to be done. The responsibility of the pension fund is primarily to pay as the best pension. In order to do so, they need to do good in cultivating their funds. It is important that risks are distributed along with good fruitage. Key elements when a large proportion of the salary per person goes into debt. It is only natural for people to have the highest choice of how these funds are laid down and for democratic supervision or other control. A competition under supervision is designed to improve the quality of the service, the cost of it, or both.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u30	Madam President. The pension system here depends on most of the three main factors; the social security system fund funded by taxes, pension funds designed to support pension and social security, and funded by fund collections, as well as special savings for building up savings to the upper years. The common purpose of pension fund work is to ensure the payment of pension money to funds after their retirement and because of disability or death. The Department of Pension and Management of Life should ensure that their activities meet specific targets. It's a big opinion in my opinion whether this is the issue of competition. It would likely be reasonable to combine business with the pension system more fully and to balance basic pension rights. There are ways to enhance the influence of funds partners on the policies and investments of pension funds and should be used without hesitation to further the impact of funds on pension policy and investments. Pension funds might, for example. produced an investment policy based on the rules of G20 countries and OECD on the management of enterprises and multi-national enterprises, the rules and guidelines of the United Nations, in English called Global Compact, and on the aims of sustainability, respect for human rights, rights of workers, environmental issues, climate issues and prevention of corruption. Pension funds should readily submit such policies and give donors the opportunity to influence it and vote for it. This is especially important when it aims to increase the investor's financial resources abroad after the removal of a currency head. Pension funds should provide much clearer investment policies and guidelines, but they have so far made and provide funds with opportunities to influence them. Also, it is possible to make a financial investment among funds for policy - making decisions in this field. It is very important that democracy be held in high esteem and use democratic means to resolve matters. Of course, business associates should choose individuals in the management of the pension fund, and it is necessary to set the time limit in pensions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u31	Madam President. It is approved on Pirata's policy that treasuremates themselves choose in the management of the pension fund. A year ago, I was assigned to a project with Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, the newly elected president of VR, where we took together a star out of fine international approved government practices when it comes to the pension fund. We set up a law-observation box, set up a guarantee. And then, like a snooze. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier: That the pension fund generally used and permanently for using the best possible means of government to limit corruption. It is one of these factors that appears in the UN Global Compact, a process of exporting to the United Nations Convention on Corruption. We have approved this in Iceland, this is the United Nations in cooperation with the world's major corruption program. Of course, the pension fund should bring it in. It will take very little to participate in this assignment. I already checked. They can do this by saying that the management of the pension fund orders the head of the pension fund, making a statement that they should do it, and then they're on their way. This can be done after their next meeting, after considering the matter, if they are interested in it. About democracy. As a general rule, there is little confidence in the national pension system. Safer pensions, with Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson and me, we got a poll from Gallup a year ago. It showed that there were 52% of the population who had little or no trust in Iceland's pension system. It's a very serious situation. At the same time, it was found that there are only 17.8% who have considerable or some confidence in them. There is still less confidence in the union of industry and ASI, which are those who put most of the people in these governments. People don't trust those who wear their pensions. What happens then? Then it just happens that the people take control of themselves. It's starting. Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson was elected president of VR, the largest labor union in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] His struggle is that money is being chosen for themselves in the management of the pension fund and that it affects the way money is handled. Now it is time to listen and adopt good government, democratic and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the prime minister for this discussion, it's very important, and the Minister for his answers. As shown in the prime case, our pension funds are enormously powerful. These are the big sums we're talking about here that we're paying each one of us into this fund that it's kind of hard for us to get our hands on these numbers. The basic thought I want to stress about the pension system is that the main foundation is a so-called partner system where we earn certain rights and we have common assurance that although some individual lives to 100 years of age will be assured that he will get a pension while as we know, another individual may live a shorter life. It is also very important to remember that the pension funds have increased the cost and pay for increased service to those who have lost their abilities. It is also very important to keep that in mind. What I'd also like to reiterate is that the rights we have in the pension fund are something that's been negotiated in a public labour market. These are contract rights. We here, however, have put in a law frame on how the pension fund is controlled, how they invest, and of course, it is normal for us to regularly review whether or not something in that law needs to be improved. I've given myself several different bills about increasing democracy in the management of the pension fund and increasing transparency. I think it's very important that we have a conversation with the labour market members about whether and how we make the necessary changes in accordance with the facts, or we feel that we need to work out the funds. [[The president calls.]] I am absolutely convinced of it, and expect both minister and primer to agree with me, that this certainly will not be the last time we will discuss the treasure of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u33	Madam President. In the world of increasing age and change in national age, it is important to keep an open view of the pension system and its potential to meet its commitments. It is clear that technological changes will completely change the job market. Not only will there be a lot of jobs disappear, but although it is clear that other new ones will be created in many cases, most people will predict that the job will be very different from that of today's day, the work week will definitely be shorter. Of course, it is socially important that as many people become active in a workforce in one way or another, that is expected to change very much. The fundamental question, then, is whether the current pension system is a solution to the future or whether we need to examine all other systems that will face this new future. It is very important that there is a clear link between social security and pension funds, including so that, in later years, payers can be made visible by paying in this common fund. That's basic, not to change. More recently, however, it is necessary to adapt the pension fund to the reality of the day. There we naturally need to reduce the amount of pensions we have in order to strengthen our system and make it more beneficial and more likely that everyone will live with the same system. But we also need to enable new members of the community to be more active in governments and jobs, including some of them. to increase transparency and transmission of information. Today, people in general are better equipped to access and process information, and technology also allows for a much more direct approach. We also need to be alert to see that governments and councils reflect as well as best members of both sex and age. Finally, I agree. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that it is necessary to value the impact of public funds on investment policy, e.g. In terms of environmental, moral, and otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u34	Mr. President. This is a matter of discussion. You see, there is reason to pause and wonder whether those who have these vast powers that follow the head of pension funds have enough democratic authority from their sources, simply because the managers of these funds are in charge of other people's funds, this is other people's money, and have not gained that position on the basis of his own chance or initiative. It is reason to ask, " What effect does it have on competition when pension funds have a large part of my country's enterprises in the stock market, up to 50%, and have an ever - increasing share in more than one company at the same market? ' It would be interesting to hear a talk in the middle of the afternoon. Secretary of finance on his vision of these competitive issues. In this discussion, there have been two factors that can help prevent unwanted, unhealthy market compression. It is on the one hand, putting floors on the investment funds abroad and setting limits on the voting rights of pensions in partners, e.g. with the rules for Parts A and B parties. V.E.G. The prime minister has recently raised this issue and has announced that these points should be reviewed, and this is why they should be welcomed. Finally, Mr. President, of course, it is important that pension funds can make a wise investment in this country's life savings. At the same time, there is a great need for investments in Iceland. It is, therefore, no doubt true that governments will provide a further basis for their pensions to be able to channel their investments into this course to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u35	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason makes a big move here, which is worth all the attention. Of course, it involves all our interests in a direct and indirect way, in various ways, even the financial situation of a government fund, an investment within the country and outside. All I want to do is pick up the line where we can't forget that the pensions are kind of insurance companies for us, and they're mostly going to make us feel free to spend our lives and then, from time to time, from time to time, or from time to time, a pension or a pension or a child's pension. That is a fundamental point we need to keep in mind. Like what? paritaprevir The Harðardóttir Hardytir mentioned them paying in a lot of money and never getting anything out, and others don't pay much in and get a lot out, so it's a social security system. It's a policy system that rests on the foundation of collective agreements, beginning from 1969 and then back in 1995. The workforce in which the workforce members worked out, as mentioned, contains regulations on how to manage them. At least between them, there has not been a debate over that arrangement, and in all respects it seems that you did well. There are some funds that have other arrangements. It hasn't been any better, has it? There is a possibility that there may be an argument over what to do with the funds from generation to generation, so this is a very difficult task. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to take a good look at this. I think we need to be very careful, so we're absolutely sure that we get a better system that doesn't have any side effects even worse than the defects in the present system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u36	President. It is true that the pension fund is a major economic factor. There are a number of reasons. They're big. There's a lot of money in the funds, so they've only been locked up in the economy most of the time and little else done with their money, which they're supposed to be doing for the pay. I think the debate here has the advantage that the pension fund is some kind of special problem, there's a problem. I don't think it is. I feel that there is no special problem with pensions, though they are strong and have a lot of money. It has been noted that in some way they may limit their impact on investments, reduce their vote, place a set floor, somehow direct them into investments. I don't like it. Let's let the pension money be a part of making money for the employees who own it. If we want to increase the value of wage employees in the pension fund, let's start by leaving them alone, not with the employers. I've always thought that was unnatural. Let us first increase the value of the pension fund by hiding it from the employees, the owners of the funds, to control it. Of course the trustees of the fund, i.e. payers, they vote in the fund through the unions. It's the unions that supply the pension fund. It's the ones that make up the pension fund. Through the union, employees are in charge of how things are handled. There they can be more active and exert their influence even more. Limiting the pension fund, limiting their investments, somehow limiting their importance, or trying to obtain the funds that are in it for some other kind of investment that they have been today is the beginning of the breakdown of the pension fund and the same with the union society in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm totally against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u37	A respectable president. There are two things I want to draw attention to the pension system. On the one hand, it is the influence of the pension fund on competition and, on the other, the interest of the pension fund. Last year at a meeting of the Contestant Board was specifically discussed with the President's permission the effects of the pension fund on competition and the following examples: A sentence on this is holding property on the three insurance companies registered in the stock market. Of the 15 largest shareholders of the three members, there are 6 investors, including all of them, and 3 additional investors have two partners. Four of the largest investors involved in all of the budgets own a total of 26% in Sweden, 25% in SC and 31% in TM. Another example is real estate. Of the 15 largest stockholders in registered real estate society, five founders are divided into all their unions. The combined holding component of this medicinal product is 35◯44% in each partner. It follows that the owners are not very interested in having one of their companies go out in real competition with the other companies, which they also own. The problem competitively provided for consumers is obvious. The other problem is the fruit harvest of the pension fund because of how large the pension system is. The property of the pension fund is higher than the annual gross domestic product of Iceland. For simplicity, let's say that the GDP and property of the pensions within the country are the same amount. The pension fund is 3.5% and is not considered in terms of inflation. In order for the funds to live up to the rights that fellow treasurers feel they are working in, this question needs to be met. That means the head seat of the pension fund will be doubled in 20 years. Clearly, growth is part of GDP. In order for the growth of the pension fund to be not a growing part of GDP, economic growth must be at least as much as the growth of the pension fund, otherwise the pension funds would gradually take on a larger and larger part of GDP that obviously does not go on. As a result, the state will have to help the pensions in order to give up their funds and rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing up this important matter. All the questions raised for discussion have been helpful and progressive. For example, consider the pros and cons of legalizing the freedom of employees to choose a pension fund. Freedom of choice and competition between pension funds is a timely debate and how to increase competition between them. You're right next door. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that the majority of Icelanders want to increase their choice in pension funds. Therefore, we need to take a closer look at these matters, and we are seeing the first order of action on this occasion. In particular, consider how to enhance the influence of funds on pension policy and investments. One aspect of this, as indicated in the question of why. A senator is looking at the right fundmate in order to choose directly in the management of pension funds. A respectable president. In the last eight billion years or some 3,500 billion dollars, the properties of the pensions have grown dramatically. They have been in the budget for the past eight years, and because of this, their foreign property accounts for about 20% of total property. In my opinion, a much greater risk distribution between the domestic and foreign property of the pension fund is needed, so it is important that the pension fund uses the authority and the freedom now available on the budget in order to make the money for the future. Another part of this discussion that I think is worthy of pointing to is a review of the money policy. In view of the large cohesion funds in the Icelandic economy, it is necessary to consider the interaction of those involved in capital transport. As the situation is today, a lot of foreign currency flows through tourism, but emissions have been very limited because of the capital crisis. Because of the changed time upstairs, the pension fund will be very important in achieving a greater balance in the in-and-out of currency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is an important discussion today. I expected it to be higher in the council halls for the next few years. [[The president calls.]] Besides, I wanted to thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for his detailed responses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. Óli Björn Kárason's senator for starting this important discussion about one of our pensions, the pension fund. For years, we public citizens have been included in that the Icelandic pension system is outstanding, that we are jealous in comparison with many nations, that we have a wealth of money that will benefit us in our later years. Two years ago, the SEC and the National Institute of Pension introduced the results of a recent study on the level of life in the European Economic and Development Agency, OECD. The conclusion was that the Icelandic pension system had an excellent policy goal for the Agency and had a good place in comparison with other countries. There would be a great deal of strength in the abundance of funds, a social security network, and that future pensioners could expect more or more pensions in general than today. On the other hand, two masks are beginning to come ever closer to this alleged bright vision. The overall insurance status of the funds has been negative to hundreds of billions of dollars, a limp both general and public funds have run at tens of thousands of dollars and even hundreds of millions of dollars. The debate is not about a better pension, a higher payment, but more, about the increase in pension age, as well as the increase in industrial pay. In the United States, around 27 pensions are operating at high costs. Their competition, their reduction, increased freedom of choice both within the country and outside, and more involved with business partners in their administrations, may be part of a re - creation, but there is a possibility that more is needed. Increased participation in social projects for the benefit of fellow treasurers has been noted. There is a tremendous amount of money, the real property of remuneration. The requirement is that it be given a perfect amount of responsibility, but it has been a failure. [[The president calls.]] Most of all, it gives rise to confidence when the notorious nonviolence apostles in Icelandic politics proclaim solutions for the welfare of the common people. It's really creepy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u40	Mr. President. I'm gonna thank you for this discussion today. I don't know if the last speaker was pointing a particular spear at me when he spoke of a liberal apostle, but I've now counted myself among those who preach at least More freedom than death. But let's go somewhere else. I'm very pleased with the answers. The minister of finance and the way he approaches this subject. I was particularly glad that he believes that there is a chance that when it comes to pension funds, it will increase the freedom of the payers, because I think that maybe that's what's going to keep more than anything else. It matters. You're right, we're talking about the beach eggs. It's true that we're talking about a common fund that's a policy fund. Of course, we need to keep that in mind, and we need to take into account all the changes we make or make. That's absolutely right. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindorddarsson pointed out that this must, of course, be kept in mind, and we should not make changes for the sake of the change, but, above all, to ensure the advantage of the employees, the insurance system that is in the pensions, but to increase the confidence that must be gained to the people who have as much money as the pensions do. There will be 3,500 billion in the next 121⁄215 years. There is tremendous power and its effects. Therefore, we need to make sure that our policy is settled, that we are content with how things are being done, and that we realize where we are heading, and how all decisions are made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u41	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Congress members for their participation in this interesting discussion. I'd like to consider some of the factors that came up. This was called the social function of the funds. I believe that it can be thought of as a source of socialism, however, it is difficult to do so. I believe, however, that it is not good for them to spend much of their time on social projects. I think it's the government's job to handle community projects. When it came to competitive matters, the problem changed. paritaprevir That's Tot Björn Einarsson. It is true that because of the low investments in this country, many shareholders in a competitive business. I do not know, however, that the pension fund gave to those in charge who may have been elected by them no instructions on how to behave within the government. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir of locking the funds in the markets has led to damages in various markets, e.g. in a housing market. It can also be added as long as possible. Congress has said that it has an entire domestic product that will be added to the pension fund in the next decade or so. How important it is that she is well - mannered and productive! Finally, I would like to discuss a question about a question of fruits mentioned. There is really no fruit requirement in a pension fund. The figure 3.5% is the one that has gained an average of over a long period of time, but in reality they only achieve the most fruit available at any given time in relation to their direction. Finally, I agree with that. The prime minister that trust is important and that this important system is settled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 4/1995, of rural income organisations, a proposal is made for the provision of a provisional law on a special contribution from the County Fund. The bill is employed in collaboration with the European Union and is its contents in line with the approved administration of the Union from 27 June 2014. An internal minister offered a comparable prime report for the 2015 spring and autumn Summit, which was not decommissioned. The original law of this material was in the bill that became the law of No. 135/2014, however, was canceled by the proposal of an environment and transport committee where the committee felt it needed more consideration in the light of the comments it had received and the short notice it had for the treatment. The objective of the bill is to offset the effects of law No. 40/2014, of the special property savings and its provision for the payment of the housing bar and housing supplies, have had outbacks of the rural community, but as noted in their report with the bill, they have led to a temporary reduction in rural income due to more saving in the form of special property and tax freedom. They suggest that this is done by the distribution of a special contribution from the County Fund, which corresponds to the increased income that has fallen to the fund since 2014 and out of 2016 because of the pressures of a special tax on financial companies under the law of No. 155/2010. According to the Treaty on rural income, a part of a branch fund is made up of a set proportion of total taxpayers, which is now 2.1%. There is an increase in the income of the state funds due to the pressures of a special tax on a financial enterprise under the law of No. Thus, 155/2010, more revenues have been produced in the rural budget of this proportion. From the middle of 2014 to 2016, this increase in income was covered by less than 1.3 billion dollars. Undivided, the equation's balance of these extra incomes should be determined by the general rules of the Member States on how to distribute from the fund. However, the bill means that these incomes will be divided in proportion to their share in a national total response during the period and thus in proportion to the effect of law No. 40/2014 has been on the out-of-state sidelines. It should be noted specifically that the bill does not affect the overall contribution of the equation to the rural society, but only the exchange of this revenue fund between local society. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that, following this discussion, it be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his story. I'd like to consider that the bill being offered here is related to housing and the measures taken during the last term for them; this is put in place a special exchange of funds to the rural society for this reason. I'd like to ask you some questions that I hope the committee would think that once it takes the case into operation: Would it be possible to link the contributions that are being paid out to the rural areas, since rural society is making housing plans? Can they be linked to a better supply of property provided by rural society? I would like to use this opportunity to ask the minister of the third question, but in terms of payment by local property: In a declaration made regarding collective agreements, an increase in the supply of housing and the reduction of construction costs was reported and it would be all paid to accept as the most practical method of living in an effort to reduce the cost of construction. Among these, the Ministry of Internal Affairs was assigned to review local reimbursement due to land and road repair costs with a view to reducing the cost of construction. I would be interested to hear from the minister how he intends to do this and to ensure that, on the other hand, housing plans will be made to ensure adequate housing, that there will be plans to ensure sufficient supply of weights and to reduce costs, and there will be a positive incentive for the rural community to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u44	A respectable president. Clearly, we are faced with a particular problem - that is, we are confronted with what is bad. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir makes publicity, in connection with this. I have no comment on the fact that in the course of revenge, this case will be handled and tried to approach these views if the council thinks it is appropriate to link this up. There must be a trial at the council. Regarding the work going on at the Ministry, and in the field of more advisers, it has been proposed for formal cooperation between recruitment practices just to work on these housing problems, including for reducing construction costs even more than has been done. The steps were taken during the last terms in this direction, but better if it works. It also explains how to improve the growth and thus counteract the serious problems we face, but it is clear that the lack of weights, especially in the capital area, may be the root of the problem. This work is being carried on, and a certain team of cooperaters has been initiated on the behalf of the welfare minister. I expect that results will soon come from that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u45	A respectable president. It is known from other countries that contributions are to some extent linked to rural areas, or those with the organizational authority, to the purpose of providing housing, and to ensure an abundant supply of property. Whether building special property houses or rented houses, housing for partners, or employment houses is required. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the organization itself does not take too long, but it is a challenge that does not occur at the highest level. Minister. I thank the Minister for making this clear, and I hope the committees listen to him, that he won't violate the possibility that there may be a link to a housing plan. I understand that the Minister of Social Affairs is considering bringing a bill in which law-oriented municipal partners to make housing plans is explained. It is being suggested that, in place of the distribution of funds according to the general rules of distribution from an equation fund, they will be viewed as an appropriate answer. This will likely take additional money to the urban areas, to areas where housing is the greatest. So I think it's very important, if we're going to take care of these changes, that it's clear from the General that we want the rural communities to meet the need and plan according to the needs of the citizens for housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u46	A respectable president. It must be assessed in the case of the council whether the bill on the bill is suitable for the procedures involved. A senator witnesses. This is a very specific section that is known to the bank tax and to the reduction in income from rural society to the tax freedom given during the last term and is in effect. It is getting closer to the point where we are supposed to split a set set budget, which was due to the inactivation of special property savings, and whether or not it should be compared to the loss of the farm society's income in response, or whether it should be up to the rules of the Christian budget in a different way. Whether such factors are valid must be evaluated. A senator makes a valid witness at home in the bill or if it is not available in any other way. I believe we're working on that problem right now, contrary to the Ministry. It is suggested that this work does not take long because the matter is urgent and we need to act quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u47	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. The secretary of transportation and unit for the history and ask him about things we might do. The members of the national district have heard and have been talked to us about because of the contributions. There are concerns in many of the scattered settlements that if this case becomes legal, local communities will receive the most money from the money they earn, but the role of an equation fund is to equalize the tax expenditures of the rural society's income with contributions from the fund. I turned my attention to the progress of earlier councils, and it says, so that you would take your local communities in the district that I am working in, that the city site, the Dalaid, and the town's land all sided with this bill and you would think that they would be cut off if the bill became a law. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because I have not had enough time to settle into this case, whether the matter was changed since it was presented to be met with the concerns of the rural communities I quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u48	A respectable president. The matter remains different from what it was when it was submitted in the past, and it did not settle. It may be known what this conflict is all about. This bill is in its own time created as a legal case for the Ministry, is a seven - man advisory committee that has discussed these matters. It is quite true that there is an intervention under the bill on these extra incomes only - and it is very important that we realize that these are due to government decisions that would affect the loss of a certain part of their response. It has been viewed as a matter of fairness that those who lost their income get it back as possible according to the bill. It is so important to remember that this money was done in the same way as the other income of an equation fund, but it is important, as shown in my history, to remember that it was closely cooperated with the European Union and is actually accepted by the Community government on the date that I covered. The Senate will then have to deal with this. It would be best to try to resolve this matter in some way. It is very important not to get involved with the local community because of this. I believe it should be tested in the conduct of the council and in the presence of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u49	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for very clear answers and for explaining that this is unchanged. I noticed in the report that it's said that we should consult the European Union and work on the European Commission of June 27, 2014. Then you are surprised at how large a large number of rural partners made comments on the matter in the earlier contribution. I remember a discussion on this matter when it was here during the previous session of the council. There was quite a difference in opinion between local partners on the subject. But, of course, it's a Senate case and a bill that's going to go to bed. A committee at the General Assembly. They have work to do. I really hope there's a way to resolve this matter so that it gets along. I have nothing more to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u50	A respectable president. The decision is familiar. He was up here during his last term. It is expected that he will now be reinvigorated in the treatment of the council. Of course, the matter has been developed for some time and discussed. As I said before, and agree with what. A senator, would be desirable for some sort of reconciliation. I believe it is best to be tested at the council's level in this matter and to hope that the committee will make an effort to do so. We are ready at the Ministry to give the Senate all the help we can in this matter as well as in others. We see in ourselves what sets us up. It is important that this matter be ignored during the current council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u51	A respectable president. I have to start by saying I'm very disappointed with the bill at the highest level. Minister puts in here. This includes surrender, or apostasy, from making peace with the subject as foretold. The role of rural congregations is to balance the situation between rural society and the need for people's services. Companies vary in income, much like expenses. For a number of rural areas in the country, there are far more costs than for the largest, especially in the capital area. Tables also provide very different amounts of tea. Thus, rural areas that have the most income or that do not fully use businesses, such as an expansive or estate tax, receive reduced contributions from an equation fund, while differences are linked to any member of the community that needs it most. Many rural areas in the country now live in recession because of a strong dollar and a reduced price. At the same time, the demand for expenses increases. The reality of most rural communities in the capital area, however, is very different. There, tax revenues are increasing, as well as the growing income of a massive stock market. It is not in the spirit of equality and justice to assign a partner to bank taxes according to language, as the bill expects, rather than to be given money for the services of disabled persons in this way rather than according to the need for service. It is very special to take a portion of the revenue reserve outside parentheses and to divide funds in a way that is not based on its basis. A fund should be a fund that balances the situation of rural society in terms of income and expenses. To say no further: I would never believe it in the local councils to support such legislation by their vote or to be involved in pushing it through the terms of the Generals. The bill's terms simply violate basic values based on equal rights and the conditions that the balance fund has worked in years of success and good reconciliation. If the bill is pulled back or up again and will not be accepted, these funds collected in the fund since 2014 will be assigned to the country according to their needs and set up protocols on the equations, not according to how much it enters outlets. By accepting such laws and repetitious actions, you could create an example that could not be seen end to it. What's next? Will the allocation of funds to the rural community continue to be limited according to their needs on the basis of the equation? Then it should be noted that such feedback involves poor administrative practices. The situation is, in fact, that the balance fund has held over a billion from rural communities in direct opposition to the regulations of the income market. This government is in opposition to the law in the opinion Jón Jónsson, the Supreme Court of Justice, who has produced opinions for a group of rural communities in the region that feel violated. Has he even. Pointed to, by permission of the president, the Supreme Court's judgment on the case of No. 631 from 2014. There, the Ministry refused to issue a law on reimbursement of the cost tax due to thermal legislation in opposition to existing laws until the law was changed. The community, however, had the right to pay on the basis of a law of harmonization. The United States would really be taking a real risk by pushing these laws through. Jón Jónsson further feels that it is not permitted to cancel the laws of a certain rural society again in view of the regulations of the Constitution. On the one hand, the legal requirement has been established, which is the protection of the Constitution's rights. The law confirms that we should take an equation fund, including the following: for income balance proposals and legal requirements are the need for rural society to fully exploit income farms in order to own that right. On the other hand, due to a verdict of 78rd. Constitutions that the income stocks of rural society should be determined by law. He claims that he could not see that there are any intermediate ways of changing the legislation over time so that the legal status of rural society in 2014-2015 will not be disturbed. The adjustment seems to always include mobilization to rural society, which does not use maximum response, which involves a certain denatization of the role of an equation. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to see if the Ministry has had it checked out. The Ministry is asked to provide a legal opinion on the contrary if there is, but to have it done otherwise. It would be fascinating to anticipate such things for all who come into this case, and in fact, such a bill should never have been presented as presented here without the fact that a bill would pass such an opinion. I'm opposed to this bill in the present form, and I'd like to agree with the contents of a letter received by the Ministry on February 13th. 1 of 11 rural areas in the country where there is a request that the funds of rural society be removed from the income fund due to the influence of law No. 139/2013, on government funds income measures, in accordance with local regulations on the SEC. This will be done immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u52	V.E.G. President. The point of view. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson tore up here is not new or unknown during the discussion. They arose from time to time during the last terms of this matter, which was then a time for the treatment of an environmental and transport committee. I have no doubt that the current environmental and transport committee will carefully review these views. However, there is one point that I would like to bring to the attention of a talk. Senator. It is that this additional amount of money to an apartment society would only have been due to the intention of improving rural income losses due to the effects of the bank tax. This was essential for the increase to the balance fund. The idea, then, was to improve the damage to their rural communities, so to speak, that is, caused by damage, and not by some other community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u53	A respectable president. I also know the viewpoints presented here in counterargument. I'd like to remind you that about the equation fund, there's a rule that's being followed. The money that goes there is divided by that rule. This is also a time period of many years. It is strongly argumentable to take part in the provision of such funds through legalization so far back in time. It would be otherwise if things were to be particularly focused on how things would occur from today on or from the accepted law. There are quite a few reasons to go back many years in time, as these laws have rightly been pointed out in the legal animosities I quoted, and it may as well be that many of these rural communities, who feel that if these laws come true, will attend their rights and even get them. I'm stressing that I'm sorry that there was no further step in making peace with this case, because there is also the possibility that the European Union government is totally divided in this matter. I think it is more likely that the matter being presented almost unchanged, as presented here, that at the time, the problem was rather sour over time, and that it is unlikely that the same document will be settled, in order to be maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u54	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion for the time being. I think the views presented here will continue to be considered on a environmental and transport committee, including the legal issues of the case as well as on the current issues. There's a senator here. Of course, there are issues that need to be considered in this context, into the rule of the matter, and what the basis for their decisions is there. I feel, however, absolutely necessary to be stressed, as I did here in my previous answer, that the funds involved in this matter had not come along and never slipped into the Slocary Fund, never. It was not a decision to add additional funds to the equation for any reason other than to improve the rural areas resulting from the effects of the tax. Then people look at it and evaluate it, as has been done in the preparation of this case, where this effect was made. For other things involving financial relations between the state and the community, there is no basis for speaking here, as there is a very specific issue that has to do with the effect of certain laws. If the conclusion remains that these funds will be taken in any way that is not originally laid down, it will likely have some effect on the future affairs of the State and rural society in other respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u55	A respectable president. There was talk of a process and plans, as well as of such in the beginning of this case. It is quite special to say that this amount has been added to the equation, which, in turn, would have to come into a different course than the fund. It would have been natural, then, to create them at the outset and have them fully prepared for a step - by - step procedure but not to follow up on some quirks and adjustments when they realize that they may not have done their homework properly. However, this is a fundamental matter. It is also a test case involving the equation fund and the handling of funds that it handles, as well as the role of the fund as an equation device, which has been very comfortable with it. They're trying to fix things afterwards. That's not a good government. It's a bad government to start changing history back years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u56	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill of changing the law on farm income companies. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his history and tore up this case as also shown in the bill's report. It is not my intention to add much to that coverage all, but it has been shown that this case will go to work. Environment and Transport Committee. I have no doubt that the committee has a problem because there is considerable disagreement, has been a conflict, and can be understood to remain in this matter. This is a disagreement on the subject and, to some extent, a disagreement on the form, i.e. which way is to meet the views that because of its laws on property savings and yielding it to provide the mortgage, it is set aside from an equation fund to a local partner who lost income, as it were, in fact, Mr. President, due to the opposition. There is also a view of basic principles, principles that apply to the branch budget, and how to sort out funds from it to equalize various rural activities there. It is not easy to synchronize or integrate these two different views. It is also possible to address the differences that have been involved in any of these forms and to consider whether if, if rural society needs to improve its response to these measures, it is the right or the best way to change the law on balance funds. Let me point out in this connection that in Article 11. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, is a special law on how countries and rural communities should behave their relations and agreements on public issues. It may well have been better at the beginning of this case that state and rural society had agreed on before all of these laws under which they are going, first of all, it is a law for special taxes on a financial enterprise and then a law on the provision of special property savings. We also know an example that, under certain circumstances, countries and communities can negotiate their financial dealings with one another, confirming it by contract, if necessary, and by law. The latest example of this is, of course, a very special situation that was created when rural pension debt was associated with changes in the balance of pension rights and how countries and rural societies conducted these relationships recently, before the end of the year. What I'd like to say here and bet with the highest power. A minister is about to investigate now. The Environment and Transport Committee on Environment and Transport what surfaces are there that there may be any agreement or agreement on this matter. It's like the highest. A minister says: This is what the Congress needs to deal with. I think it'll be difficult. The same bill that the subject has been a masquerade at two councils here. I think it's probably time for the committee to call for comments, call out for the views that are on the scene, and look for ways to cooperate with the highest level. A minister to find a point of agreement or solution to which all people can accept, a solution that ensures that the fundamental law of the Community budget will be honored and not be taken into consideration by the key elements involved and that it can be taken to some extent into the perspective of the rural communities which have been challenged by these specific measures of the State. I have full faith in working men solely that it is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u57	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's opinion of the matter is excellent. Hv. paritaprevir The Totto of Björn Einarsson brings in many of the features of this case and how complicated it is in many ways. We're gonna go for a second. A senator may not always agree with the conclusion, but I have found nothing else because we are sitting together. The Environment and Transport Committee, but that we share an interest in working hard. I agree with what you're saying. The senator's concern is that the committee needs to work hard on this matter and call out visitors and consider the matter, for in many ways it is complicated. I cannot really resist the temptation, since I listened to it. This complex relationship between state and rural society is expressed by the balance fund and other such things and by the whole arrangement I think it is. A senator knows considerably better than I am that can be very complex and delicate, asking why. A senator in his position on bill for a law three years ago. His members of the Independence Party have tried to change the law on farm income groups and to eliminate minimal response. Supports him. A senator of that matter, then, is he concerned about how it could penetrate the balance fund? I thought it was my fault. A senator carefully reviews the role of the equation, is aware of his delicate arrangement, and therefore I wanted to disqualify him from the changes in the bill I came into.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u58	Mr. President. You could be grateful for that. But I have to guess before I try to answer his questions. A senator's questions were very different, but the question is not in harmony with the General Assembly. I wish you would. I can first agree with that as a matter of course. A senator says in the counter, that there is a complex rule at the Nite Owl Fund. It's relatively complicated. Under the rule of this work, there are agreements, agreements that have been made on how to level income between rural society according to their different circumstances so that all of the rural areas of the country can perform their legal functions. That's the point. Farmers have, like krauts. A senator is likely to recognize, and they refer to the Constitution in that relationship, a measure of independence in the way they choose to dispose of their legal income. There's a complicated mix between here. That is why this is a sensitive issue, as it is evident that there are men turning out of the principles that have been placed in the law on the Sculptary Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u59	The president wants to inform us that in 70th. The law of the council, which is the rule of the council, says, as a speaker pointed out in his counterunion: ▪ Forseti can allow members of the body to give a brief answer to individual talks as soon as they have been transferred. Then let him who wishes to answer a request for it to the President. An answer may be directed only to the speaker but not to another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u60	A respectable president. I humbly apologize. I thought I was discussing a senator's case because I thought it was wrong. A senator establishes a global review and the overall picture of the network that focuses on the income stocks of the rural society. I humbly apologize. I didn't mean any harm, except to share the senator's view that there is a need for a collective view of the matter. I've been a spokesman for many matters that we're looking at things more overall than just watching some of them. I've talked about my view many times when it comes to the environment and more such, that we are often moving down many places rather than looking at the bigger picture. That was my only intention with my opponent. I beg your pardon. It was not my intention to compromise in any way with the seminary. I thought I was doing what I was doing. The president read up here, I thought this was an answer to the senator's case, though I may have asked a question on another subject. I'd like to, at the same time, thank you. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's party for taking this error so well and answering me, even though I have not been better at rules than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u61	The president would like to state that although it is under the law of Congress, certain customs can affect the way the president conducts the discussion, etc. People do other things in the public assembly, but the law insists, even though a speaker can call for, if he wishes, that a person should make his case more difficult. He pointed to the rule, but he also said that there may be no need to force it so much and answer the question. So it's all very fun here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér is very happy to be able to discuss this matter and put in context. He is absolutely right, it is necessary, can be, and must be considered in the context of the development of rural income groups, what the main purpose of rural funds is, and how the bill under consideration is involved in this. I'm glad that you did. A senator here declares his will to examine it carefully. Environmental and Transport Committee. I look forward to working with him on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u63	A respectable president. Of course, it must be the committee, who will address the matter in evaluating its legal status. It is presented on my part as Minister in the certainty that law is not violated. The case has had a lot of work and passage in the Ministry. In itself, there is an independent problem with the management of an equation fund, which is permitted to remain of the head position at any time, unrelated to this matter, and how the General decision can affect these farm members and how it should be handled. I reiterate what has been presented. The situation is being cooperated with the European Union. The result is in line with the conclusion of the European Commission. There may have been some differences in the government. I don't know so much about him, but it's being done in that cooperative setting. Then a certain consulting committee had to do with these matters. It split up in this case. The bottom line was to make this point. It would be best for me to try to win the case in some way. It may appear that it is something else. As I mentioned earlier in my talk, I believe it is the job of the Senate to try to cooperate with it and see if there is any further agreement to make a decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again about what I asked about earlier, if the Ministry had had a legal opinion on this subject before the bill was submitted. It has not been answered unless it seemed that a Senate committee would have been meant to do that job. Then I again wondered: " Is the bills being properly developed in the budget before being placed here and in the material processing of committees? ' I would have thought normal that such a legal opinion would already exist, indicating that the bill would last. I'd like to reiterate the question I asked earlier, whether such an opinion exists, and whether it's the highest. Ministers do not feel that this is done properly if it has not been done, and that committees are not left to their opinion only.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u65	A respectable president. There's nothing new here. The General said there is a disagreement on legal initiatives presented, whether at the council, on the Senate, or whether they come from some government and counsellers. There's nothing new. Nor is it new for humans to think here on a discussion that the bills being measured are not a law. There are many examples. However, it is obvious that when bills are made by lawyers in cooperation with stakeholders, they do not deliberately feel that they are offering things that do not measure up to a legal opinion and that are not in accordance with existing law. There is nothing to think of but that it is put forth in good faith and built on the basis of the work that has been done, that the bills laid down here stand still. That's the case. It will then be evident in the conduct of the council whether there is a basis for the ideas or speculations at that time. A senator has on this matter, that there may not be any law. It is customary for committees to have such work done on the field of the council. I just expect it to be the same in this matter as many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to say, though, that as shown in the case of a minister when he introduced a bill to the Supreme Court. This is almost the same bill as before. There is, however, one new change, and it has been specifically pointed out, including in the legal views that have criticized the bill and the way it is, that with each passing year, the chances of supporting what was possibly below the beginning are reduced today. This is an even greater recovery, and more years have gone back. Each year, as the bill is submitted more often, there is an increasingly questionable time span of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u67	A respectable president. I reviewed earlier that there is in itself an independent decision at any given time, and it can be controversial, which sources are fundamental to holding down a certain amount of money in the equation, and then how it is affected by decisions made here at the General Assembly, on income and income farms. I don't think it in itself has really changed about this matter, specifically. I reiterate what I've said in the past that this case needs to be reviewed by the Committee. It is bad when disagreements arise over issues such as this at the scene of their rural society, the good working ground for them. I think it's important to take care of it. The trial treatment must then be established as to whether any decision can be made during conquistancy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u68	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in traffic laws. These changes mean that ministers and local governments will be allowed to set rules for the use of postal areas and collect their fees and related services. In 1st. the bill is provided with the following modifications to 2 mg. 83rd. traffic song. First, it is suggested that rural governments be allowed to set rules for the use of posts and receipts on land within their administrations, including those in the United States. correspondent in a country within the boundaries of our community. Police manager is expected to agree with national-aggression policies in rural areas, as in the current law, but a minister who handles national issues confirmed the rules. Second, it is suggested that rural management be permitted to collect fees for the use of farms on land in its administrations and in national states within the country's boundaries. Civil authorities must seek the approval of a minister who has the national issues for the admissions within them. Third, the bill includes permission for Ministers to set up a regulation on the use of posts and its receipts on the land of the government. The provision assumes that the minister will bring in the approval of the minister who will handle the state affairs prior to the payoff. According to the bill, natural protection areas and citizens are free from the legal rights of a minister on traffic law. However, in the case of reimbursement in natural protection areas it is expected to be based on the laws on the protection of No. 60/2013, but local reimbursement will be done by local government according to this bill previously stated. Fourth, it is suggested that the fees for land management be made by a minister or by others he commits the collection by contract. Fifth, it is suggested in the bill that the amount of money collected from rural administrations and Ministers will be aimed to maintain the level of construction costs, maintenance and management of economic activities, including the cost of standing. Remuneration and costs for the construction, maintenance and management of services related to the use of parking areas, such as toilet facilities and construction, and maintenance of walkways and connection with other transport agents. A registration will be expected to be made accessible to users. In the end, there is 2. the bill proposed the following changes to 108. g. traffic layer: First, a change in the F- team of 1st is proposed. for the purpose of stratified expenses being taken for a new set of 2 and 4 mg. 83rd. traffic song. The change allows status guards to fine vehicles who have not paid for the use of the parking lot. Second, it is suggested that local authorities be authorized to use local waste management fees to cover costs in ways other than automobile parking and public waste, as laid down in the current law. The change allows for strategies to be useful for building costs, maintenance and management of businesses and public waste, including public waste, Remuneration and costs for the construction, maintenance and management of services related to the use of parking areas, such as toilet facilities, construction, and maintenance of footpaths and connection with other transport agents. A respectable president. I have now explained these key elements of the bill. I suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u69	A respectable president. I thought for a moment that I had half an hour, the clock showed it, thought it'd be a good idea for the fire to talk to the Minister for a great joy in half an hour. I am not one of those who apologized for extending the discussion, as many do on the platform. I think we're here to talk. However, in this case, I do not intend to extend the discussion much. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent review of the case. We will take this matter to ourselves on a environmental and transport committee and will discuss it there. In the ground, I celebrate the bill and its contribution. Actually, I would have thought a bill like that should have appeared a long time ago. There has been some difficulty with us and the government taking action that will be used in the construction process when it comes to travel. I've talked about it here and I've done it because it's my firm faith that I think we've generally thought things wrong when it comes to these matters. There's been a little something that we haven't been able to spend a dollar in construction differently than having it marked somewhere in the income stocks before. In this way, the tourism service has been living in a way too little money when it comes to building, since we have been assuming that there would be a direct income in that area. Instead of looking at the enormous sums of money that have come into the community through tourism, we have always had to have some direct connections between income and spending in this case. That's why I'm glad the Minister's giving it up. I trust this will be one of a number of prime sites and Congress proposals that will come from the highest level. The government is subject to these same matters because parking costs alone do nothing but live under parking lots. So I'm glad that the bill clearly shows the purpose of these charges, how we collect them. By permission of the President: According to this article, the cost of living is determined by the cost of building, maintenance and management of economic activities, including The pay, and the costs of building, maintenance, and operating services related to the use of parking areas, such as toilet facilities, and the construction and maintenance of walkways and connections to other transport agents. This is already the whole point, Mr. Honorable President, because parking fees are services. They cannot be used for anything other than the cost of the ministry. I trust it to the highest. Ministers and members of the Ministry have considered that everything listed here rests within, a toilet position to form, hoping that it is, for it is good, for such service needs to be performed. There's been times when I've been a bit of aggressor. my colleagues at the council speak as if parking fees are any response to the lack of infrastructure in general when it comes to travel services and parking fees may become some collection of funds for the public funds to enter general structure. I'm glad to hear it. Rather than being caught up in that error, ministers realize that this is a service fee and that income is being paid directly to render it service. I look forward to taking a look at this on a environmental and transport committee. There are some things that need to be considered. This is a matter of government land. We're now entering national and environmental protection areas. I don't think there's any reason to speak up at this point about a number of issues involved in the bill other than the fact that this is a fine way to create the necessary situation in many parts of the world, and society can set it up. I'm going to go to the top. Minister and fellow minister of the highest order. A government to work when it comes to looking for more, there's much more to it than this when it comes to the construction of infrastructure, both the tourism and so on in our natural and road systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his speech and meditation on the parking lot and what it can be used for. I think that the bill as it is designed is the quality, and these responsible parking fees are precisely designed to build up a service related to getting a vehicle in place and parking in good parking, to go to the bathroom, and possibly to find shelter, and then perhaps to take a closer look at what is to be done on a comfortable walk. I don't think we're arguing about it, I think it's all very good. On the other hand, further structure was mentioned and how it should be done. It is true that Correction has spoken for parking fees in this context. I don't think this is to rule out the fact that, in the sense of this bill is not an actual parking fee in the sense that this bill provides. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that there is a need to raise funds to build wood and protect tourist areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóndóri Valdimarsson answers. Yes, I think we agree on the need to increase our income. I've heard what. A senator and his party are talking about the cost of a parking lot. There's one way. I have to admit that I had not imagined that there would be a double stop at the parking lot. On one hand, a parking lot, or a post as it is in an urban parking lot, would be a small amount of what lays into the general infrastructure. Whatever it is. A senator spoke of my meditation as a service fee, and for what to use it is really no reflection, it is simply under law how to handle the funds that are achieved through services. I'm glad that the creative thought is applied, and I look forward to having a look at the development of the dog. A senator or a chief. Minister of the seminary, or group of what? A senator, in what way would that be most appropriate. I think we just need a little talk to take some serious steps in these matters. We must have the courage to take our expenses without the availability of a precise income stock. I speak specifically of landkeeping in that regard. There's nothing to wait for pay. It's only supposed to increase the amount of money for the Marine right now for the summer, so you can look through your income. In general, any means of earning should be considered, whether in terms of cost tax change, incursion, innance, or whatever. The way a senator talked about is fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u72	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. We agree on what services are. I didn't mean it in that sense, of course, there's a big difference between whether you have a service charge or a tax. I think it's wise, like what you're doing. A senator points out, taking a look at various routes and dispositions. If people go anywhere that connects with tourists coming to a tourist resort and paying a price for enjoying nature and taking advantage of the facilities they need to build up to the best possible outcome, I don't see the need for men to go through two quarters to meet it. So I don't see anything technical about it. I'm not saying there's a plan that you can both pay tax and services when you go into the parking lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u73	A respectable president. Again, I express my joy in thinking these matters creatively. I'm not sure it's the highest. A minister, when he was present at the council hall, saw that the discussion was mostly about the expense of the travel service, but it's a good thing to do. Ministers hear them meditation here. I'll come back to what I came in here. In this regard, I think we have to examine all possibilities. I think the worst thing we did about it would be to stick ourselves to one of the right ways. The path may well be the course to take. A senator mentioned it very well, so it is to examine it. However, no route of treatment with these agents should be excluded. We are to be prepared to examine all aspects of this sector from A to Z. Again, because I think it's so important, let me mention how much we want to think about almost every dollar that goes out in the way that its marketed income has been acquired, so it's worth nearly a dollar against a dollar. The policy has been on the side of the people for far too long, causing the lack of soil control. In many places, such a ban on the value of a farmer is a laughingstock. Organizations may not even be able to control rights or on any other level. We should not be waiting for any system, even if we are doing so. A senator certainly looks forward to finding it. We are simply to look at it as our duty to add to the defense. We've got the land on loan. We're defending it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u74	A respectable president. It's a little strange here to be talking about traffic laws, but actually it's about travel. It says something about who we are involved in some aspects of travel. Parking costs give some money every year. It's hard to see it coming. I make it clear that in many ways this is a positive thing to me, and especially that in this country the government gets into money, which is now relatively rare when it comes to travel. However, I'm not quite aware, and that may be unpredictable and possibly. has not been through very carefully what will now be of a moderate parking lot, let's say 500 bucks. I can't imagine men having very high parking fees in places such as this one, that these are time-rated charges, parking tickets. What will be left behind after the parking lot is finished and run? Is this really the amount of money that is important in building timbers in tourism? Is there any idea of that in the government or ministry what the amount of money is going on here? The definition of parking fees as service fees - I ask the opposite: Is walking a service? I can imagine that the bathroom is that, or the parking lot man walking around, but really, it's reaching out the parking lot to be a sort of tax, I think so. I've often wondered why this only currency or income is listed in the government's topic contract, whether it was actually the least common form of agreement that these categories could agree with. Nothing else is mentioned there. It is very strange to see a government case deal with parking fees. All right. Someone else may explain it. Like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé noted in his case, it focuses on the revenue of tourists on the move. The lack of money for construction has been screaming for a very long time. There is a tourist market fund, and perhaps there is little else that can be replaced, apart from what goes to national parks and peaceful areas from the state. Of course, it would have been normal to present some more ideas immediately in the administration of revenues for tourism in excess of parking costs. We've been talking about a local deposit. I don't consider its rights. Remuneration or removal costs, and changes in merit tax and direct investments from state funds, etc., there are a number of ways. We're covering a holistic plan, although it does not depend primarily on the transport secretary, but it's still showing by the government how this revenue should be done, because the situation is very serious when it comes to very many multi-packed tourist attractions in Iceland. It focuses on other aspects of tourism, such as what I've been talking about, tolerability, sustainability, Italian, access control, and other aspects of the conference's level through discussion, but has not reached a more effective foothold in all transport policies as it has become today. In my opinion, Iceland's tourism is not self-sustained today. This can be seen by going to 10, 15, 20 mass - fishing tourist areas, which is seen in small areas almost drowning in foreign tourists primarily, so tourism has become an unsuspectable trade route at that particular place in community view. We always tend to focus on the natural factor for sustainability. I believe that solutions such as parking charges are just a tiny part of the solution to the problem and again that I'm not against the bill in itself, but I think the parking lot in itself is a far too low in this big deal. But this may be a step forward. I'm going to ask you why it wasn't done with the development and the government's topic contract to discuss the financial gate, the income gate, the travel service in Iceland, so it would be more fun for us senators to think about when we receive such a bill on our table. As has been noted many times in the case of members of the Parliament who have expressed themselves here, the whole matter, i.e., has to be viewed as a whole. We don't have enough travel services, we can put it that long. As a result, I have an advertisement here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u75	Madam President. I'm very pleased with this matter, and I'm very supportive of it. I'm glad to hear it. It is an important link on the way of covering the access control of popular tourist areas around the country. This case is a big piece of paper into the overall picture we put ourselves in. It is important in all this discussion that we realize that with parking expenses as presented here we are, in particular, trying, and it's important, to have access to popular tourist attractions. It is designed primarily to protect important spheres, to protect them from exposure, to protect them from the loss of our hand the delicateness of tourist attractions, the use of natural bulbs, and to protect them from intimidation. There is, indeed, a limit. Is there any limit to how many tourists can go each day to see Geys? There are limits, and we need tools to control them. We do so in a way, not necessarily by paying a price to look at nature, but by trying to pay what the area has to do with many tourists at any given time. It is, therefore, of course, as shown in the bill, to extend the rule of rural management in urban areas, in order to reach rural management that can and have to be paid in rural areas. I can mention, for example, an area that is a very delicate, very special area, and I can hear it under here, but it's Doomshold in the West. The appeal is so great that society has suggested that there is a problem with ensuring and protecting the area. At any rate, the authority available in these laws is used to address these matters, to finance the need for these areas, to build up a service or a position, and to ensure that cars are in the place where they should be, in their own areas, not to be driven by roads or laid where they should not be placed. I'm celebrating this case. I also rejoice, as I hear in this council hall, that there seems to be a wide and solidarity at the level of political lines on the main points of this matter. I'm glad we're slow, but I'm sure we're going forward, getting results in how we deal with protecting important tourist attractions, protecting the natural bulbs of our country, and making sure that the citizens of this country are the very nature of our services. I think the highest. Minister is on the right track in this case. I believe in that at what? The Environment and Transport Committee can achieve a good and broad understanding of the issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u76	V.E.G. President. Now, I don't really have it all figured out because I was looking primarily at this parking lot as a source of income. Now it's part of the question. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, this is also access control. I want to put a big question mark there. I don't think parking costs are a way to access control. It is possible to think that the size of the parking lot will lead to access control, i.e. Five hundred cars will be made by Geys, followed by dismissal of all those who come after it is full. Is that the meaning? I don't quite understand this access control idea with parking lots and parking costs. I think it's a lot more complicated when it comes to access controls. It's a lot more complicated than the size of a parking lot or the amount of money you pay, unless it's both. Now I'm asking why. paritaprevir Teit Björn Einarsson: Can he see that 500 parking lots - this number is loose - to Geysi is at the same time the access control of Geys?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This bill, by itself, is what it is. A senator rightly points to, does not have the sole purpose of controlling access. You're absolutely right. What I say in my speech, and I'm all for it and agree with it, is that in the great context of the parts, this is the right step, i.e. on the way to finding solutions to problems that we face. This is a good step, and it is necessary to find acceptable solutions for the access control of sensitive and polydiversity sites. For someone, it may include access control, or some type of barrier, in an area where currency is taken at parking lots. The same may look for someone else to see nature. I think this scene alone, I can agree with that. A senator, if not of that nature, is merely a service fee, and this is made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u78	A respectable president. I think we agree pretty much, huh? paritaprevir Bot Björn Einarsson and I, but still, just to prevent misunderstandings, the parking lot is worth a hundred dollars, and even a higher amount, a very nice way to access control, to be perfectly clear. Also, if you just put it out, you can't build an innuendo at well - known resorts on the size of a parking lot. It takes much more and more complex operations to do. My question about Geys, about 500 parking lots, was presented to emphasize that parking lot and parking costs are not a license control, unless you decide that only the people who arrive at the bus parking lot and the smaller parking lot are the access controls. But I reiterate that either we agree on this or we disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u79	Madam President. Yeah, I think me and what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is on the ground, agreeing on what's under the bill. The bill alone, as well as it is, does not answer all the challenges we face regarding the large - scale number of tourists around the country. But in my opinion, it is an important step that we open up to rural governments, even with huge land covers, that they get this tool to respond and take care of the need for capitalism, and especially because of environmental considerations. If they can have any organization that connects the service that's under there, whether it's a toilet position or a parking lot in a good place, not all kepprets around a certain area, we're moving forward and in the right direction. But with regard to access control, and that is up to this point, you can point to today's media English words that prove the importance of this matter. He says the Houses were in ruins, there's certainly a little big word, if the Þingalde committee hadn't had the authority to react and to address every parking case on the Capitol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u80	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to express my joy in this bill from the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers. It is in the spirit of the policy foretold by the restoration, the use of parking fees to earn income and access controls at mass tourist locations. It is true that this is a service fee. For legal and administrative reasons, it cannot be used for anything. In this case, it is listed below for the purposes of the services to be used. This is a warrant comparable to what the government has to charge on parking lots in urban areas. That's fine. Generally, I feel that way, it would be totally indiscriminate for me to go further and increase this warrant so that it would be some kind of tax recovery, or whatever it would be, some sort of an opening to popular tourist attractions. The amount of money that comes out of such currency could be used to build up in the whole area, not just in the parking lot and around it. But as we have seen, it's not the subject of this bill here. The second advantage of using this arrangement is that it is a sort of access control. Of course, there's debate over how much it is, but I think it's obvious that the vast majority of tourists are more likely to go into a parking lot than if there was no such price. This includes some kind of access control. It doesn't necessarily have to be very high to make it work. I think there are two things; one is a group of tourists who avoid paying for these things, and then they might go somewhere else. This would result in a decrease in pressure in the area. But it is true that the price would have to be even higher so that the next group of tourists, those who have a good sense of price, would disappear. But that is not a goal of the bill, and it is not necessarily a goal in itself. I'm not gonna say anything more. I now declare my joy with the content of this bill, and I look forward to dealing with it in the highest degree. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I could not stand to speak here to my companion who has become famous. I think it's interesting to listen to what's happened. A senator and his ideas on currency in general. I don't think we're going to talk about it any more when it gets late. Like what? A senator correctly came in, and we've mentioned a few in a pantu, it's not exactly the subject of this bill. But I've thought of it as the first step. It's at least a wall has been broken, or it can be said. But, hey. A senator referred to a currency as a control device and put it up with a complex question about it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see how he can see that such a payment would be done. Would it be the way it is here, in the custody of a local community? Or would it be more compatible with payors who would try to direct people to a specific location? Would it simply be a cost, and then the market or the people would decide where to go? I hope so. A senator forgives me for saying anything more here, but I think this is a matter that we need to discuss more.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u82	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter in an honest way. Sometimes we tip only about ideas about taxes and currency. Outside here, there's parking lots in the area 1 in Reykjavík. An hour is 200 and something's worth. Far away, near Seaway, is a parking lot where the clock may cost 20 cents after a certain time. There is no difference in how much it costs for a parking lot to stop down here or at Seaway. It's obvious that the difference there is not due to costs, it's because one standing is more desirable than another. I imagined that some areas are simply more popular than others. I'm not completely clear about the arrangement. I'd imagine in some fantasy world that the arrangement would be better if it were such that the system might be one thing, i.e. that only 40 different persons in their car would be needed to access all parts of the country. Rather, they would be somehow compatible. But then, it could be accessed by either group or other members depending on events. It's my full view of those things, even though it's not connected to this bill's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him that these matters need to be discussed honestly. We need to be ready to examine anything in my opinion. In a spirit of honesty, I will readily admit that I am in trouble when it comes to the subject and comes at me with the idea that it should not cost people anything to look at their country, and so that I realize that there is something to be done so that perhaps it is necessary. I just admit to a certain ignorance of the case, maybe because we haven't done enough research, but I want to look at it more in order to make a decision about it. I heard why. A member of the Parliament spoke of a variety of receipts to drive traffic and referred here to the parking lot in Reykjavík. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to refer them to the parking lots we discuss in this bill or in general pay, to them in various natural areas, that they vary according to the popularity of the areas? I don't know if I'm supposed to go out and ask why. A senator into his other ideas about some sort of revenue at the time, after being snorkeled here for asking why. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson was not on the subject at that moment. Yet, I would like to hear thoughts at ease. The senator wondered if he had considered any other possible means of earning money when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u84	A respectable president. Yeah, I've been thinking about some of the revenue routes to travel services, e.g. the fees, the natural passes. I believe by all those means the most successful. They solve it best to be reasonable. That's the kind of people who pay for the item. It also controls the flow of tourists from overcrowded places. At any rate, it gives that possibility rather than e.g. the fees, the natural passes. However, because a senator refers to my discussion of parking bills within town, I pointed out that, in fact, the sources that the local government has today to deal with the parking lot in some way are similar to these. It is not tax, it is a service fee. I know, however, that Reykjavíkurburg has been able to interpret it so that they will be supported by the rest of the parking lot, the agency involved. It may be an opportunity in the world to have income in such a way that there is a greater cost in places where the market provides a market for it. I imagined that there was a chance of doing something similar. But as I'm saying, it's a bill alone, and it doesn't necessarily see into that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u85	Madam President. I wanted to come up here and declare my pleasure with the bill, to the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers have submitted this recommendation. This is a real challenge for traveling overseers. I'd like to mention a number of them from the report by Rögnvaldur Guðmundsson, which he worked as a report for the Road Research Fund, now published in February. It's called Driving and Security. It points out that in 2009, some 166,000 foreign travelers in rental cars, 33% of the total, were 4,80,000, or 48% of the total, and last year, some 56% of them were involved in the use of 960 foreign tourists, car rental cars in their travels across the country. The task involved has gone on in a few years. Between 2009 and 2009, this traffic has increased by six times. So this is a real challenge. Here in the country and in the high Council, there has been much discussion about these matters. It was a discussion of natural passes, a coming fee, two years ago or so. This is a trend in that process, perhaps the first step, but hopefully it will develop over the next few years how we're going to deal with it. It's a huge project. Let us consider this as a service fee. It's not a tax. The funds that come in, these services, are to be spent in building these parking lots and destinations in travel services. I think it's true to say a big step considering the way this has been done for us in the past few years. This is a step you had to take, possibly it's a first step. There were steps to take in the National Park of the Parliament last year. If I recall correctly, my computer was now extinguished, there were 70 million in the first seven months in the parking lot at Haul, the service expenses there. That's quite a bit of money. It also refers to the development of these services, which, in turn, makes it possible for some kind of access control. This can then be used in various ways after the day, to maximise the use of parking lots and services. The same way I understand it is done in the Blue Lion today, the price system is used as an access control. I think it's a big, big step and a great pleasure. It is a big step toward breaking the ice in the discussion on these matters. The debate over nature passes and those issues were not quite successful at the time. Actually, I think today that discussion would be a little different than it was two years ago. I think the discussion has developed considerably during those two years, around these objects, and the depth may be growing. But I really hope that we will continue on this course and that these are the first steps. And then we can think about it this way - I don't think of the Icelandic word I was going to use, but I don't think I'll use it any more English. I hope the U.S. Senate continues to work on these matters and has good ideas about how to deal with these issues. This is one of the big projects we really need to deal with. I disagree, though, with what happened. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier said that the amount may be low, or especially small, of this. I think that the income in the Hacuna on the Þinga, in the National Park, shows certain things. We can produce certain results, as there are a considerable number of tourist areas that could be built up good parking sites and the places for tourists to live through these services. I think it's another way to the same objective that was spoken of by natural passes or due fees or all these six possible routes two years ago. But it's a big step, I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u86	A respectable president. I thank you for this objective discussion that clearly explains how difficult this situation is, a problem that we face every day. In some way, we must respond to it. I believe that this matter alone can be one of the factors that can help them, but it is not enough. We have experience in the Parliamentary National Park how it has been accomplished by payback. It was quoted earlier that national parks had simply saved the infrastructure in that remarkable location. That's how I think it might be. This also undoubtedly enables quite many rural communities to implement, take independent investments to provide sensitive tourist attractions, provide for the security of travelers through which and for a long time. We must again wonder that for a long time, they may produce a lot of money. This type of currency is clearly marked with its limitations, i.e. What can be used in what comes from it. We, for example, have examples from others in this regard, such as ports and such. So it must be thought - provoking, as soon as we have reached that stage in those places and others to build well, that we are still facing the fact that in this large, beautiful country, the opportunity is almost endless when it comes to examining nature. Many times during the discussion, it has been important to distribute these pressures, to get tourists elsewhere, to make more sails in many parts of the country, to attract tourists, and to reduce stress at places that are most widespread, and to open up new opportunities in new places. In fact, by this payment it is not possible to allow the funds to flow in between. We cannot pass a fee that would possibly be collected to the lakeland park for other projects, e.g. in the mountains or other areas where it is very important to respond handsomely in order to protect nature and to ensure the safety of tourists and provide for them. It is therefore unlikely that, in time, the Parliament will have to deal with the way we are going to make use of the funds that come into one place to build up elsewhere. Then it has become some kind of tax system that, as my knowledge turns out, it should be earmarked as a natural protection fee that will carry them out on such projects. It follows that there are many things to look at. But this can become a significant income. You can see that it will be started immediately in several places, and I think this is going to raise a giant on its own in certain areas. I also believe that elsewhere the example of the Þingvaval Park should follow and start a currency, e.g. In the waters of a world of cold, in Dimu; and in the cities of Gold Falls, and in Geysi, these obvious places. It's taken me a while to clean this up in the Capitol. No doubt you can do more precisely with regard to what has been mentioned here as some sort of access control, i.e. trying to balance the load more fully over 24 hours. But here we are, at least, taking the first step. I don't think we have to worry about it in the next few years that there's not enough work to play in all these places. They are in desperate need. We know, for example, that agricultural workers play a tremendous role in these places, not just in nature protection and the care of sensitive places, as well as in the safety of tourists. It is our goal to start taking these steps and to respond to the call we see. I reiterate, a respectable president, that I think the discussion has been perplexing. I hope we have a choice here at the Council to complete this case before spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u87	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on the subject of the elderly, No. 125/190 on driving. Transporters with me have a problem. The people of Lára Arnardóttir, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred, Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur. The bill is not far, it is two articles, and it turns out that elderly people who are disabled or disabled enjoy comparable rights and disabled people on the basis of law on disabled people. So here it is, on permission of the president: It is important for older people to have opportunities to drive a community service that allows them to travel in the way they choose and at the time they choose against a controlled budget. The aim of driving services is to make it possible for those who are unable to use public transportation because of disability or other impairments to engage in secular activities (and it is to reflect that there are many more people 67 years of age and older who are working - ◯ and study ◯ - we have also seen an increase in their activity - ◯ and enjoy leisure activities. At the same time, the elderly are entitled to drive a community service because they drive to a service facility and because of other services that they enjoy under the law of service to the elderly. A minister is permitted to provide guidelines for the local community on the basis of this directive. Civil authorities are also permitted to set the rules for the ministry on the basis of the arrangement and the guidance of the minister's regulations. There is also a warrant to collect a fair amount of pay for the driving services according to the rural budget and that the price should be comparable to the price of public transport in the area. A person may have thought that this was already in the law, since many societies have performed this service, but it has not been legal. In general, then, there is the right to drive a car. Is it my hope that there will be fewer gray zones in operations between state and rural society? This bill is based on work performed at the Ministry of Health for changes in social services and laws on the affairs of disabled people. There are a number of other requirements I would like to recommend either myself or a minister would come in here and recommend those who have important rights to do, on the other hand, for disabled people and for the elderly and for those who need community service to keep away from their communities. Regarding this specific provision, the European Union's position in rural areas has been that there are uncertain responsibilities between health and aging services and disability services. This has led to a case in which a person who has been asked to drive has not been given it. Especially has this been true when people have gone into the Service Department when a person is affected by trauma or impairment after 67 years of age. It is my hope that by accepting this bill and it must be legally explained to them the responsibility and guarantee of this important legal act for the elderly who suffer from certain impairments. However, I would like to state, sir, that this is a new legal matter for our communities. Not all rural areas care for this, so it could account for a number of costs. When a discussion about the matter is over, I would like to have a good time. A welfare committee discussed the matter and covered it better and obtained information about the costs involved if it was available, but I didn't have any information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u88	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this bill. She answered what I was going to ask at the end of the talk about the cost. I certainly agree, and I agree with this by explaining the responsibility, as is said here, that the relationship wants to do, and we understand why we want to explain it. We are familiar with the discussions of rural society that there are continuing to be improvements in certain services that are not associated with financial resources, etc. It's arranged here for a fee to be paid for this service. I know that the senator knows these matters a lot better than I do, i.e. The inside, and I'd like to ask him. It says that this is comparable to that of disabled people. Does the law require that this service be paid as well? Is this comparable? I wholeheartedly agree that the elderly, whether affected or not, should enjoy this service. I live in a rural society that is ten miles apart and that is not all who have the opportunity or have a car or have the ability to drive and to attend service on either side. You just feel and sense the need for such a service. There's no public transportation in between, that's one of the things society hasn't trusted to go through the school bus, which is, of course, not public transportation as such. I'd like to ask you if it's similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u89	A respectable president. When I was a minister of the Ministry of Health, it was intended to create consistent regulations that ensured both the disabled and the elderly. I just looked up the law on the affairs of disabled people, and it shows that there is a license to be paid for, too, when it comes to disabled people. However, here it is. We know that rural society has often been paid by public transportation, so it may not be paying the real cost of that service. As the senator passed through, there has been a lot of progress, to form when communities took over basic schools operating, and school driving was guaranteed. We also see that more rural areas have started making bus trips, so there's a possibility. It is repeated here that when the individual is unable to use public transportation, this service should be offered. You've seen things, not just about driving, but how important it is to resolve matters. Although this matter is about the elderly, I also consider the rights of disabled people in general. When these rights are really accepted, rural governments have often managed to work very well, even without additional costs, and have made sure that the service is better given to those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That's exactly what you've been talking about. Since I have been a member of a rural government, I know that there is one of the constantly held discussions, how we can improve and expand our ministry with adults, with disabled people, with our children, etc. to create a complete service. Of course, there was reason to transfer the affairs of disabled people to rural association. In fact, it has been called for the transfer of older citizens' affairs to the rural communities, but it has normally been a mere pause where the cost of close service has been observed after the transfer has been higher than expected. We have also included burdensome regulations and such for our rural communities, while increasing the services for the people. This should be in order to balance the status of the person with a similar quality of life. I view it as a quality of life to be able to move from place to place, to go to service, and not to be up on their people, even to care for themselves, children, or other caregivers. So I think it's very sensible. I hope that my rural society will not respond in a negative way by immediately making the cost too much. Rather, it may be a matter of weighed down and assessed, and what price would be required to be collected, and if it is thought to be too high for individuals, it might be in some way a bridge from the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's beak is a great answer. I'd rather sort it as an answer than an answer. We talked earlier today about the income side over the distribution through the equation fund to the rurals. We regularly hear rural communities point out that they have taken on increased assignments, are trying to perform better service, and need to strengthen the financial institutions of the rural community. I agree with that very much. There are so many projects that I think your rural society should be able to take better care of, that there is more to the social services that can be of utmost importance, e.g. In view of much discussion about poverty during the last days in society. Social services is a fundamental law to help people live for themselves and their own lives again. It would be wish that we could stop talking in general that we need to promote the income institutions and start doing so in a way that would not only be allowed or overlooked when our rural communities are charging for property or construction, but they are looking forward to not getting income from businesses in the local community, persons with high capital gains. I think there are plenty of opportunities to make sure that more people in the community are paying in a common fund, and we can use it to further the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u92	A respectable president. I'm not going to give an answer, I'm going to give the answer, and I'm going to cut a little in the same knee as a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. As soon as I thank you. paritaprevir The Eygló of Harðardóttir for the advancement and the crossing, I'm totally putting it in her hands if she answers to me. I just decided to come up here and say that I find this really interesting bill, but it raises questions like why. A senator came in very well and had to consider some of these matters. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in that perhaps in some way, it might need to be fixed by the government if it did. There's something to consider. What's important to me in the report, or one of many important points, is the vagueness on which a person is exposed to a shock or impairment after he is 67 years of age. What's more, in some cases, a person who has had certain rights under the age of 67 may lose when he is over the range of age that is naturally completely crazy, so I'll just let myself say it. It has only been entered into the register and what it all is like. This is compared to public transportation. Obviously, there is something to be paid for, for that price will not depend on this kind of payment. In terms of community - driving services, such as the travel services of the disabled and so on, there is no consistent pattern. A senator knows very well, and not even after all the mistakes. Blinds have special contracts, and there is a general travel service. I just want to be happy that this bill has been submitted. I would have been willing to discuss it a lot at what? A senator. I think we agree, and I think we're gonna have a problem. A senator has the answers to many questions. [[The president calls.]] But she's completely in her own jurisdiction whether she's answering my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u93	A respectable president. Although this short bill cannot be found, I think it is very important that in social services and in the community services, the need, the assessment of the need, not to look at just any age, that at 67 years of age people should have a certain type of home service, but whether people really need that kind of service or not. We all know very well that a 70 - year - old - you can have two 70 - year - old individuals and their physical health differs greatly. One is very far from needing some help while the other needs a great deal of help. It's been very strange to get to know that just having a birthday, all of a sudden, you're supposed to get rid of the damage you've even had for the rest of your life, be cured of your disability or disability. All we know is that reality isn't like that. Farmers have been developing cooperation with the Ministry to improve the assessment of the need for service so that better services can be provided to those who need much service. Similarly, we who have better health and who do not need the ministry get less or even no back service. At least it's been my position that we should help those who need help.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It went as I said it would. A senator would have answered many of the many questions that came to my attention. I might use my position to discuss this rather because it's one of the big things. I want to reiterate my great pleasure that the bill is presented here. Hv. A member of the United States made up only his history, and the report contains the position of the European Union's member on this uncertain responsibilities between health and aging. Here in the discussion, there has been a transfer of the legal classes of disabled persons to rural communities. The subjects of the elderly were and are likely still under inspection. But because this is now related to all this money, which is often the beginning and end of a variety of developments and human rights that I want to call it, I'd like to ask you why. A senator on the subject of who she believes will become the local community's stand on this, but like the driving force. A senator knows that when it comes to dealing with disabled persons, they feel that they have carried a rather delicate object, that money has not necessarily followed the costs of the service, and so on. And because there's been talk of the possibility of being bridged by the state, I'd like to ask, just because I didn't hear it, I might have missed it, if I did. A senator has made a direct answer to whether she thinks it may even have to come in, that such a bill needs to cover some cost on the part of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u95	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks this question and actually asks about the transfer of projects to the rural communities, whether they had received the funds they would have needed to handle the transfer. I would like to say, at least to the point of dealing with disabled people, that considerable funds were involved. It has also been a requirement to reevaluate the experience of moving, and funds have been added even further. However, this is not to be expected, especially in a constantly developing class, that is somehow in such a way that the project does not change. There are further projects that have been added, projects more expensive, so the State has tried as far as possible to meet the rural communities in this regard. True, it was taking other major measures during the last terms that did not direct their social services or laws on the affairs of the elderly or disabled people. Rather, they were simply taking over large financial debt, vast financial resources that the State had to take on to relieve the local community. Although it was my decision or position at the time that it was, for example. I don't think we should proceed so rapidly with further projects until the transfer has been completed on disabled subjects, so it was postponed in service to the elderly, I've seen that the rural communities, e.g. the capital area has been working together for ten years when it comes to home services and nursing. We work all the time. [[The president calls.]] But we can always do better. It is what is so important to keep in mind. We have never done so in terms of improving our welfare services.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u96	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in law No. 5/1998, for the campaign to the countryside. The bill assumes that the voting rights of foreign citizens in elections to rural governments will be brought to a situation similar to what is known elsewhere in the states of the north, which remains in Denmark and Sweden. Our proposal for the bill is 3rd. 2.g. the law on the election to the local government said: In addition, the election rights for Danish, Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish citizens, citizens of the European Union and EFTA countries who have legal homes in this country, and other foreign citizens who have had legal homes in this country for three years continuously before the election day, for otherwise they meet conditions of 1 mg. That the bill stands for the entire group of reverends. This is our first Senate bill, and it's up to the council policy, that Iceland should be an open community for everyone. I'm going to study the talk to break the story of these matters right here on the land and in neighboring lands. Then I'm going to argue with why we think this is a good idea. Finally, I'm going to argue with the implementation selected. There have been developments in these issues in other countries and in Europe, all of which are on the way to expand this right according to the domestic constitution. Some 40 years ago, in the North, the first wave of these changes swept away. In 1975, Sweden introduced the election to all foreign citizens in the rural election after a three - year period of residence. Danir followed in 1977, which was based on three years but only for the Norwegian. Then, Norwegians and Finns were added in 1980 and 1981. All countries have since removed the habitats and the EU conditions for the states in the EU and have extended this right to all foreigners, usually with some kind of farm condition. In 2005, when I was studying there, I voted for Danish government elections. Then, as I say, the EU has extended it to all EU citizens. In the European Union, so that I'm going through a wide field in Europe, the EU citizens have adopted country governments and the states of the old British Commonwealth have also adopted comparable traditions. The state of Europe that has gone the longest in these matters is Ireland, where all foreign citizens have their elections immediately, as far as I know, in rural elections, and then there are different national rules in elections and elections for the Irish council. In Iceland, for a few years there have been rules where Norwegian citizens get votes in three years and others in five. We transport the bill, we want to increase that right. A respectable president. It is my experience that after a certain period of time in the country, you start to worry, and most of the time you get interested in your surroundings. That time is often 2◯3 years. For us, it has been this way of taking part in politics that if they are invited to a meeting with an immigrant representative, it is usually the time it takes for people to get into political gear. For the first two years, people are setting up only, then people come to the country, take their children with them, buy an apartment, etc., people are ready to care for their surroundings. I think there's some kind of power we should do. It does not have to be that election participation is something that we give up. We have enjoyed the happiness of living in Iceland and other parts of the North. We want this to continue. We should not fear that this will raise up a generation of non - Israelite people who are spoken of in politics. We are to fear that this will not happen, that there will be large groups of people who feel that they can't affect the government of society, the government of the country, and the environment. This is a matter of authority, but also a matter of certain civil rights. The count of foreigners who live here pay taxes, and there is no adjustment period when it comes to paying taxes. The question, then, is whether the right to vote, at least to rural governments, should not be a principle as well, regardless of nationality. If we agree to take a step further than we have done so far, there are a few steps we can take. At the very least, we who are involved in this bill have wanted to take the step of being similar to the Norwegian countries, i.e. that other northerns get their votes rights right now. There's a few tools available. We can do as the Irish did, saying: "All foreigners get their votes right now. It would be a step that would be an impossibility to those here, but it could be a bigger first step than it could get through. Another way would be to move like the Norwegians, to put the northern population on a rule that allows them to vote immediately and then expand their rights to all the rest in three years. Of course, it must be remembered that the northern population is no longer the largest group of foreigners living here, but the inhabitants of the vast EEA. They don't need any special permission to settle down here anymore. In that respect, they've got the same exact rights here in the whole of the Northlands. The main idea of drawing the line there is that once people are in position to have the right to live in Iceland untimely without further proselytism, they can vote for local elections. That time is immediately available for all citizens of the EEA. Other foreigners receive this right after about three years. We've decided to go that way. As I say, it is similar to what is known in Denmark and Sweden. In fact, the question arises, Was it not based on the evidence I made, that the rights at a trial rather than the duration of residence, i.e. Whether or not it should be determined that once they have an untimely deposit, they may vote in the elections to the government. There is certainly evidence to that fact. However, we have chosen to aim only according to the length of a lawhouse for the simple reason that it is a more practitious, practitioner way to distinguish it. It'd be a lot to let an elected government like that. The need to search for documents and information from the Foreign Institute before staging the Constitution of the local community. We simply feel that this way is much cleaner. This is the way most countries around us have taken to form Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. A respectable president. It's up to us in a big deal that Iceland is open to people from all over the world. An election dish is an important part of Icelandic society. So we're just about to extend that right. I suggest the bill marches to 2nd. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek and his council members of the council are reassigned for the donation of this case. I really hope that this will be something that we can get together to change. I think that's a very good reason for the Senator here. We often compare ourselves with the northern countries, and we want to be like them, and this is truly the time for us to take this step. However, I wanted to add that question and ask why. A senator whether he agrees that we needed to - while the period is being cut short for foreign citizens' elections in the countryside - to ensure that we can provide better information on the importance of people of foreign background participating in our democratic society. One thing that has struck me, for example, after going to campaign service elsewhere, is how often there is much more accurate information at the polls about how people choose. It is such an important part of being able to take into account that the information can be accessed, in this case, in more languages than in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u98	A respectable president. Yes, I think you're right, of course. It would be desirable for us to provide more information for those in question at the same time. I may not see how I can link it to the subject of this bill. This bill is about political rights. Then I have certain expectations that as a certain group can vote for rural elections, certain economists, who are then the political parties, will see their advantage in reaching that group specifically as they see their interests in reaching all the other groups that they wish they would choose. I have a specific experience of this work as a politician. For five years, it is a long time that most people may need information in their mother tongue when they meet in a language. They're just starting to speak Icelandic pretty good. Yeah, I think it's important. But as I say, I expect the economs, the political parties, to take care of providing specific information in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek very much for the answer. I think it's a very figurative and positive thing about the development in Icelandic society, about diversity, that the bill reflects the origin of the president and the case by 1st. I think that's very positive. The point being made here, and the senator repeated in his history, is that foreign citizens have grown to about 8% of the population of Iceland. Then, if we take immigrants from another generation who may have a different parent of a foreign background, we will have a considerably higher number. There is also another factor that is so important: I believe that in many ways Iceland and I have not been particularly successful in strengthening and supporting people of foreign backgrounds when they arrive here. But there is one thing that we have done well, and it has nothing to do with our culture, i.e. to the main part of the population that comes, adults, is active in the workforce. It has also been found that when statistics have been reexamined in time, foreign citizens have just increased their land production, turning much valuable into society. As a result, he is the proper logic. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek went through: Of course, the rest of them, as taxpayers and as individuals who contribute very much to the community, have something to say about how society is shaped.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u100	A respectable president. I'll try to handle this. There's nothing in the speech anyway. A senator I disagree with. It is true that foreign citizens are about 8% of all of the people of the country, and I think that when we extend this right, we can extend it to a large group of people, not just a ticket to the northern population. The North countries were the trade zones we created. We created a common Norwegian labour market. That's where we looked. Today, this joint workforce is Europe. That is why it seemed to be the right thing to do. Other than that, I thank the senator very much for her answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senator and pilot of this case, Pawel Bartoszek, especially for the case and the story. I've been in it a little bit, and there's nothing I'm afraid to confess to myself. I think it's good for us to do that, then we're more likely to be taught. As for this matter, I'm going to say, with regard to the implementation, I have no expertise. I think it's a argument. A senator responded very well. I think it makes sense. Then, in general, it rhymes with my position that as many people as possible get the most rights around here and take it as a matter of course. A senator came in here. I'm not going to have my case much further. But I wanted to come up here to state my support with the matter, and I'm glad we should deal with this on an environmental and transport committee. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek came in on it, and it also shows that many of the people involved in paying taxes here. It is very normal for me to know that they have certain rights. There was now an entire country here in 1776, under a slogan that could be translated in those ways: No tax laws without the authority. Which I dare not for my little life to bring here in the original language. Both I'm afraid of the highest. A president cut me short for not speaking our Senate case, Icelandic, but as well as for doing so. I was shot by a president in the original language. I'll stick to these Icelandic snares; no tax laws without the authority. It is understandable, if you have become a large part of society, that you have begun paying taxes and contribute quite a bit to the development of society, to comply with certain duties and rights. I look forward to discussing these matters even more within the committee, having just noticed that the case would arrive. Wherever it is, I welcome this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-22-46.u102	A respectable president. I'm here for the second time to thank the discussion, and secondly to change that request in accordance with the information I've received on the case, since there is a case that is responsible for democracy and rights, should be at home with a board of administration and monitoring committee. It was right. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé heard me say, first I recommended that the matter go to an environmental and transport committee where I thought it had something to do with the local government, but I believe it's the home of this case. I ask for the matter to go to the U.S. Senate. Thank you.
