ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u1	The president wants to report that two letters have been received from the Department of Employment and Development where they request an invitation to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 462, about the value of fishing in rivers and lakes, and the demand for threshing. 4,65, both from the bottom of the ocean, and from the bottom, the protection of wild salmon fish. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Education and Culture, Tourism, Industrial and Neoniser, and Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u3	Madam President. I have two questions I want to direct to the highest level. Minister. It may well be that in one, the same man is the health minister and the president of Birt's future. The first question has to do with the plans of the private hospital and the discussions that arise again because of the different legalization of the governor's office and the Ministry, which has to be settled. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: It's not changed that as much as possible. The Minister issued here during the days, that the Ministry will not allow health insurance to negotiate with the private hospital for the purchase of specialized health care services, i.e. Don't make a contract to set up a bed room for up to five days and go into specialized surgery? It's very important to get this straight. Is this a matter of leaking somehow, or was there anything else behind it, but was it said here clearly in the days? The second question turns to the chaos that I can't see better than the lawsuits that will be left to the government in a financial program. Sad to say, when the budget is better considered by health - care budgets, it is that there is a position to increase directly to the founding costs of new Hospitals and other special projects. When that is withdrawn, the expected cutoff to billions of businesses remains. It is similar with the Environment Ministry, which the future is also being carried on in the government. This is a picture of an enormous operation plan on climate change. There are no crowns to plant more trees and to bind more carbon or speed of transport. So the second question is: Will there be a bright future for this? [[The president calls.]] Is she going to be handcuffed into this free-of-free financial program for the next five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u4	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It's quite easy to say: No, I've had no change in my decision, what I said here in the General Assembly a few weeks ago, that there was no place to hide Iceland's health insurance to make a special deal with the clinicals. Hv. On the other hand, a senator makes the subject of disagreements or various legal interpretations between the Ministry and the surgeon of the field. It's clear to the Ministry that the Ministry works by law. It is my job as Minister and Health Ministry to operate by law and by our ability and by our interpretation of the law. According to the Ministry experts, after a change in health care law in 2007, this is interpreted as being taken into account. The General Parliament required that the minister or the Ministry grant special employment permits to the clinics, therefore it is not expected to be granted a special license. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This does not match the way I want to see Icelandic health care develop or continue. So I'm preparing to set up work in the Ministry to see if we have to use ourselves to see if the law will be changed or explained when this happens. I reiterate that it's my Ministry's job to do the law. We can't do anything different. The Ministry's legal interpretation is not political. Rather, it is an interpretation of the law, as we see best. I have to come to the second part of the question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u5	Madam President. I can help out with the highest. The minister and chairman of Beat's Future answers with a later answer. It would be wise to keep it simply short and say: No, a bright future does not intend to be offered the ride of her lawsuits in this financial program. In terms of health care laws, I think that it should simply be settled in the law so that there is no disagreement on that, i.e. which activities should be authorised and which activities we wish to proceed with. I think it's amazing, if it's time for someone to think that in a gray legal area, private hospitals could just spring up in the country. Let it be that individual professionals do not need a work permit for each of their work stations, but the possibility that there may be a legal possibility that one large private hospital, even a specialized hospital, could arise without any government permission. Therefore, it should be taken into account by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u6	A respectable president. Me and what. A senator agrees that such matters should be handled in a legal way. It's the Council that makes laws, not Ministers. That's why I'm about to start work to see if there's any reason to check that the law will be changed. Hv. A senator was here at the General Assembly in 2007 when this change was made, not the one here. I'm not quite sure what the thought was when that change was made, but I'm told that it was clear that until then this law of never granting a special license was given. But we know that when it comes to health care and its environment, she is changing rapidly, and there is good reason to review such things regularly. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. Regarding the second question, whether a bright future will support and uphold the government's financial plan: A bright future is part of this government. We support the actions of this government. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] We are a government participants to take responsibility in Icelandic society. On the contrary, I believe that a significant increase to all the ways of my case group, my health, and the development of a new hospital, I don't know how many decades after first ideas, is a very important entry into the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u7	Madam President. On April 9, 2014, the current government made quite an enormous contract with the United Silicon company in Smokenestown. In the light of history, this agreement may have been of no particular importance to the inhabitants of the city of Rhines, which was a far greater proportion to those who own United Silicon. You see, there are some very juicy regulations, so I use wording, discounts, and various kinds of Substitutions. It is reported that the company should pay 15% less money, which is less than and if it happens, that the overall insurance bill should be 50% lower than other companies have to pay; property tax should be 50% lower, street tax is 30% lower, etc. Seven. This contract says: The maximum concentration-relevant government support per regulations of 5 and 6th. This contract will be 484.8 million Icelandic. This is, updated to today, 506,527 you've got. At least, if there's anything wrong with checking out Iceland's Habitat Engine. That's why I'm going to ask the highest question. Minister: How much money is this here up to 506 million U.S. Silicon has received in an attempt?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u8	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I say this here that I don't know what this is, but I ask the senator to either send a informal address to me or the Ministry or ask for a written petition for a written or oral answer where you can take it together. But I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u9	I thank the minister, who was not the answer. As a result, I would like to direct another question to the 19th law. The number 2 is. He turns to reporting. It says, by permission of the President: To guarantee the correct use of the element at the time The contract of this agreement should be submitted by the Department of Employment and Development annually reporting on the progress of the investment project, the role of intention towards its progress, the total amount of money provided by state support over the past year, and the analysis of the other activities of the party, if any, if any.◯ This contract was signed three years ago, and according to it, there should be three reports in the house to minister. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, hasn't that report been submitted? Is it public, or is there a way to get into it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u10	Madam President. I have at least a few minutes. A report to the Ministry has not been received since my arrival. If the reports are to be returned, I hope they have been submitted. If they haven't been returned, it's a problem. How the setting of this report is, I don't know. If there's not some special authority on reporting, I hope it's either on the Ministry's Homepage or at least they fall under information legislation, and you can ask for it. If it is not a matter of confidentiality, you may take the initiative to publish or bring them. Other than that, I don't know how this investment agreement works. Whether this has been delivered in 2015 expected and 2016 before my time, I have at least No information on this. But I haven't been informed of it, either off or off.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u11	Madam President. There is now a financial program, which, unchanged, forces the public hospitals to set sails. At the same time, it is unclear how health care in the country is developing. Thus says the surgeon's web, with permission of a president: However, the Department of Health Acts, on the other hand, enables private and personal attention in the field of health care and hospital services to continue to grow in the country in the shelter of Iceland's Hospital Convention and the Medical Association of Reykjavík and patients who pay for decisions from their own pockets. And later: While this is the case, it is difficult to see how health authorities can control which public budget is available for health care and what kind of business plans are being used in the Icelandic medical system. In other words, we can expect, against the public will, to develop a double system. On one hand, since the vast majority of the public uses the unfunded public system and then the other, a personalized system that will be paid most of the time by public resources than people can, if they want and have extra money, and go to serve. It was in itself a pleasure to hear a minister say earlier that he wanted to upset the problem with new laws. Hv. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Oddný has provided a bill that ensures the administration of the Generals to further private and private development decisions; with the bill there are proposed changes to health insurance laws in agreement for health care. It expects the resolution of the Generals to be fundamental to the agreements at the highest level. A health minister will do for the sake of private medical services. The objective of the bill is clear: That the minister has explained the authority of the democratic elected representatives of the nation at any time before he will agree to a contract with a private agency on the business of a significant underlying health care system. Today he can do something for himself. So I ask the highest. Whether he supports and assists the objectives of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is in a similar tone of voice. A senator earlier. I reiterate that I feel the need and the reason to sharpen the legal structure of a private business in hospital service and to start working at the Ministry to see how it is best to do so. I'm aware of the suggestion. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, in part, thinks that the behindside is the right thought. However, it may not be necessary for the Council to make a decision on contracts with each dentist, so we need to figure out how we want to do this. In some respects, I am surprised when I begin to dive into this story that a change in health care law was made in 2007, requiring that a government permit for such activities be granted. I wondered, perhaps especially after all the discussions that happened not for many years about the possibility and the probable possibility of a private hospital to be built up in Mosfellstown, if I recall correctly, that the Council should not have carried a luck to take a note of these matters. But I will, and I'm applying myself to the Ministry for looking at this. Of course, in terms of financial planning, we are discussing it on a much larger basis than it is expected for extensive injections in the health - care profession, certainly to a large extent in the construction of a new hospital, but there is no additional factor in the development and structure of the Icelandic health - care system, that is contrary to the key. Similarly, there are quite a few more new and important projects that will strengthen Icelandic health care for the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u13	Madam President. I don't know if it's the highest. During the last assembly, a health minister specifically promoted this case in Mosfellstown, which may well be considered. Sadly, though, the government's financial plans only give us good reason to fear the worst. At the annual meeting of the Hospital, e.g. Draw up a rather dark picture of the development of the health system. There the director described his struggle with the budget, saying that the hospital has twice as much money as an institution in the North countries. He says, with President's permission: I want to be completely honest with you guys, because I don't really understand anything about this. How could it be that a well - meaning government refuse to look at the so - called sobriety facts that we sum up with intelligence and information? What are we doing wrong? How can this be, when it works so well in Iceland? I must ask the highest. Minister if it is not right to turn off this valve that seems to be inexplicable from personal medical practice. [[The president calls.]] Well, I guess it's the best. A minister uses the council to control the crane?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u14	A respectable president. It may be said that the Council controls the stopper. It is the council that makes the budget and council that decides budgeting - more of the council, and the Council makes that decision. [[Foreground on, more of the council...]] [[Foremostly, the Ministers are in charge.]] A minister doesn't make financial laws. That's perfectly clear. On the other hand, we plan and process the budget. I agree with those who have been talking about it during the discussion that over the last few years and decades, there has been a lack of control in Icelandic Health Organization. This is not merely evident in the failure of the growth of private service by specialists at the medical clinic or in the development of the Land Hospital, especially after crash, compared to other hospitals. This is also shown by the way we build up our ministry and by each individual seeking a ministry. [[The president calls.]] One major problem in the system is that people seek service in the wrong place and often in expensive ways. I'm serious about getting these things off better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u15	V.E.G. President. I direct my inquiry to the highest level. For the sake of the frequent appearances, the minister of education and cultural security is no longer able to offer people with development inhibition of diplomatry in art because they did not gain money to continue the course. News reports during the days that there was a major cutout in this area, and the principal principal of the School of Arts in Reykjavík, who has been in charge of the study, says that the Ministry was sent a letter in February but that the evidence is not available in the case. V.E.G. President. This is a small group of people, but I think this study is important to him and greatly improve his quality of life. News of the study cannot help but show that attendance was great and that fewer people did not. It has then been found that it is the evaluation of the Polythees that, through DG students, a magazine has been broken in the education of this group and that using it as a real policy, everyone has the option of enjoying education and school without separating at all levels as defined in international human rights contracts. I'd like to ask the highest possible cause. Minister if he intends to exert himself in some way that financial support will be ensured for this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u16	A respectable president. It is true that this was in the news the other day, and a letter came from the School of Image in Reykjavík to the Ministry in February, if I recall correctly. I was the last person to meet with Maturity on this matter. The Ministry had no access to the fact that this study is dying, so to speak. This is done through Polygent, which has a contract with the Ministry of Education to over 230 to 250 million. K. Each year, with a number of projects being saved. It is a decision in their path that leads to the conclusion that has been discussed. The matter is first to be discussed and examined by the Ministry at my present time, and I restate that the funds available are determined by the Council and the Minister has no large funds to join. It's as simple as it is in my words. This, then, is based on a decision made by Polythecologists to abandon this study. Previously, there is an example of the introduction of diplomacy and development aid at Iceland's University, and this continues even though there has been a reduction in financial resources. The city art school in Reykjavík does not seem to rely on this anymore, and then it simply needs to review that position from all sides, and then decide how it will be conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u17	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. This may tell us something about the status of the schools, the funds for them, that something is missing up there. Therefore, in this context it is unavoidable to point out that in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, whom we validated here in the fall and committed to respect and enforce, the duties of the government are stressed to provide disabled people with equal opportunities for others. It is particularly noted that this is intended to be appropriate measures to ensure the opportunity to educate and participate in culture. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister: Are we not obliged to fulfill this and follow through?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u18	A respectable president. Of course, we are expected to follow the resolutions and agreements made by the Council. This is equal to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirms and the budgets of the United States each year. The Reykjavík School of Arts is an independent agency with a contract with the Ministry of Education that probably does not contain payment for these studies because they have come to the school by other means, from a contract made by the Ministry of Education with the United Nations. The problem arises because one agency of the Ministry no longer trusts to finance some of the services involved. Then our solution is to look for ways to keep it going. The conclusion is not yet. But I reiterate what I said before, so that we can find some conclusion, we need money. Contract agreements with non-employers on the market, such as the University of Arts in Reykjavík, and negotiations, are now under official financial legislation. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't matter how they deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u19	A respectable president. The financial program of an independent group, restoration, and Bear's future for the next five years shows that Iceland is going to reduce the donations made to development in a far greater way than the last government decided. There are also ways to reduce the number of cooperation countries in Africa. If the plan is adopted, Iceland will pay half as much for development as the state of the VG and the United States was going to cope with a worse economic situation than it is now. It is hardly necessary to remind the United Nations that Iceland has accepted international commitments to meet the UN target that industrialized countries will provide 0.7% of the nation's incomes for development. By keeping the percentage now in the same place as in 2011, we are not just minimizing our reputation on a international level, but we are compromising our moral obligations as a wealthy community to help all the poorest in this world. Now I want to ask the highest. The prime minister who has been well - meaning in terms, speeches and votes of the past few years: Is it really with his full support that Iceland's donations for development cooperation, as shown in the budget for the next five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u20	Madam President. First of all, I want to keep it in order that contributions to development are not being reduced. Not only is it that the proportion we support is not to be decreased, i.e. The proportion of land production, and at the same time, the growth rate of the land is rapid, meaning that we are adding huge sums of money to developing aid in the dollars. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that we are, in view of the purpose we have set for ourselves over the years, is still far from reaching the finish line. We have this commitment, 0.7%, and we've been watching it at least halfway, up about 0.35 percent. It is true that there have been beautiful words in the council that this should be done only tomorrow or the other day, i.e. in financial and financial context after about three or four years. In recent years, unlike the past, the cost went low in 2011 and 2012. A senator seems to think, but then they went down to 0.2%. Since then, they have been stepping. We have now brought them up to 0.25%, which means that we have been raising the funds from the lowest in 2010, 2011 just over 3.5 billion, to about 7 according to the plan under consideration. That, of course, is a significant increase. This matter must be given its place in the discussion of the future financial exchange. We're adding. [[The president calls.]] We're having trouble raising our proportions. Because it's such a challenge when the product grows to about 7%, as we do last year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This group of paintings is like all other lawsuits, for the law that is so difficult to deal with at the council is that money is of limited value. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u21	A respectable president. I don't quite understand why it's the highest. When Iceland's international commitments turn around a percentage and a percentage of gross incomes, not a dollar. This knows the best. Prime Minister is well - versed. Why does the government want a government? Do not prime ministers set ambitious goals for higher donations? Is it really so that it will be the legacy of this government to draw up funds to those most in need of support and to reduce the number of cohesion countries? Which Ministers are within the ranks of the government that are not interested in developing cooperation? Wants the highest. Did not the prime minister of Iceland put his weight on the scales to support the poorest nations in this world to the rocks?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u22	Madam President. I'd like to reiterate what I've said, that we're not reducing the proportions or the centenarian. We're up to the size of the crown, and in recent years we've gradually increased our ratios.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u23	It's not about...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u24	But I have traced the fact that in recent times we have not been able to meet the goals we have set for ourselves. That's too bad. I have to agree with what. A senator that we as a society that has put on top of the world's biographies, we as a society that produces all the most on a person in the world, we include the most valuable and valuable of all nations, and we must look forward to giving more attention to paintings like this. [[Up front.]] The fact is, in this context... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u25	A talk given in the Sermon on the Mount has been made available.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u26	[[Up front.]] The fact is...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u27	The president asks the senator to give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u28	The fact is, in the current program, we are doing so. We may not be doing what we have to do. A senator would have liked, and we would not have achieved our international goals, but it should be well known here in this plagiar hall when we have been discussing the financial program, that money is in short supply. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[It's a scandal.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u29	A letter received by the president, dated yesterday, April 25th, 2017, has been signed by the heads of the Congress of the House of Congress and the Restoration. The letter reads: ▪ At the beginning of a meeting today, the government of the Kingdom News was elected. It has been found that two leading men, Kristín María Birgisdóttir and Vagn the son of Stefánsson, were not elected to the board because they are the ideal local rulers. We signed, presidents of the Assembly of the Agency and Reunion, so we request that the next meeting be reexamined to the Government Guideship instead of the two. On the basis of this, I have received an appointment for Birna Þórarinsdóttir and Guðlaugur G. Sverrisson. Since there are no more claims than votes, I declare Birna Thornard's Þórarinsdóttir and Guðlaug G. Sverrisson to be the head of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u30	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 92/2016 of the change in XI. Annexes for electronic communications, audio and image services and the information community. The committee discussed the matter at his meeting and was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of State, Department of Internal Affairs, and the Post and Communications Agency. The two rules that the decision is to record in the contract deal deal are about communication and remuneration. The idea of a shareless network has been expressed in the principle that Member States can contribute to the access of users to online content and services by choice, and that communications companies should inform their customers in case of network error procedures. The proposed change includes the loss of standard traffic control, such as the limitations of the data transport rate and data load. It will only be permitted to use traffic control in moderation and for only a limited period of time. Resignment and the cost of traveling abroad are among the most of us who have used cell phones. The above adjustment includes decommissioning special interest fees in June of this year. Therefore, an additional fee must be placed on phone calls by operators on their trips within the EEA area. It is designed to improve the interests of consumers, to increase their protection, and to reduce the cost of deduction. Thus, the matter of consumers is important. There's a combination in the wind. Foreign Affairs Committee to propose to the Council that the proposal will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u31	Madam President. We had a meeting until last night about some urgent matters that were not completed and the schedule of the day was scheduled for last night. Then some stress comes in, so we have to clear a schedule aside to introduce the EEA. The stress is due to six months ago, Iceland made a administrative notice during the induction process and has six months of time to infiltrate. I ask Mrs. President: Is ESA having a lot of pressure that we bring in, because this is the deadline for June 15 and not this month's conventions, really asking that the council have to put aside its whole program to discuss this matter today rather than after the weekend?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, which deals with the law on the number of local government officials in the largest rural society in the country of Reykjavík. The bill is written at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has been presented to the presidents of the United States Society and the city of Reykjavík. Then there is the material bill related to the bill that eight members of the council moved to the last legislature but that was not paid at that time. The objective of the bill is to eliminate the law required on Reykjavík City to increase the number of city religions from 15 to at least 23 at the next district election and return it to the mayor himself to decide if there is a need for an increase in the city councilman. The call is for a number of district leaders in 1st. 1 1. Substitute government law. There, according to one report, there are a number of local government officials in which the population of 50,000,299,999, whereas the population of 100,000 or more is to be 2,3 placed on the list. This means increasing the number of city citizens in Reykjavík from 15 to a minimum of 23 at the next district election that will take place next year. This involves a change from the order of events that had been under older rural law, No. 45/1998, and their predecessor, No. 8/1986, which said that in rural areas where there are 50,000 or more inhabitants, there would be a large number of rural rulers in the range of 15◯27. The city council in Reykjavík is now 15 and has never been more, except for one terms. During the election period, between 1978 and1982, the population of the city was increased from 15 to 21; immediately during the next term, the mayor decided to reduce the number to 15 and has remained unchanged since that time. Although a paper with the bill of the current rural law gives specific reasons for the growth of the Councilman, it is my opinion, especially in the light of the community's self - control rights, that it is more appropriate to hand it over to the mayor herself to decide whether to grow. Therefore, when the bill suggests that a new older system will be adopted and the mayor will continue in his own jurisdiction, whether the number of city agents will remain unchanged after the next district election or increase to up to 27. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u33	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. In short, I'm all for this bill. I come out of the city, and I know the city's administrative district of Reykjavík, and I have my own opinions about how to keep it democratic, streamlined, more practical, and so forth. But I wanted to come up here and tell you why I think this bill is good. I think it's just those who cooperate with the administration every day that are more likely to appreciate how this will be done best. It is not always the state that knows best there. In this case, I think it would be a great success to allow the city of Reykjavík to be personally involved in how this will be done best, since the elected representatives and officials there know the most about it. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, for I agree fully with what is stated in the bill on the self - control rights of the rural communities, whether it might be possible for the future to consider that this does not apply just to the city of Reykjavík. Why is this not just the case with all the communities who would then be given the same authority to make such a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u34	A respectable president. It is clear that the city of Reykjavík has a unique position in Iceland, which is primarily manifest to us in the size of our community beyond that of other rural communities. I wonder if Reykjavíkurburg is high enough to have three times the population of the second largest rural community. I agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator, I think it's only natural for those in charge and management to decide for themselves. The State thus proposes a general framework to work as all societies must follow, and this law would have taken them to Reykjavíkurburg, and this change would affect them on that side. This is not really a prohibition that the city of Reykjavík can expand its religion but, above all, that they must bear responsibility for that decision for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u35	Madam President. This is a fairly unusual administrative bill because it is then put in the head of the bill to the special interests of certain senators or politicians in recent years that the general way in Iceland, as towns and cities are larger, is the democratically elected administration of the more populous. Of course, there are a number of reasons for reasoning, but it has generally been a multi-organization in our countries that when we come up in larger rural areas, towns, and cities, it is reasonable for their management to be very multiorganized to let the community pass through their viewpoints and call for a large number of representatives to be significant and for the threshold to be low. It will be automatically by increasing the number of representatives. So the efforts in this direction are said to strengthen democracy. Now I don't remember that I'm at the highest level. The governments and the groups in it have specifically gone on for elections to press on to the government's democracy. Of course, that's what's suggested here, closing in on representative democracy in the countryside. Actually, mostly just a country club, Reykjavík. I don't like this case. To tell you the truth, I think it's really wrong. I do not notice that the largest rural society in the country cannot indulge it in the interests of active botanical democracy and more nearing its inhabitants to have a reasonably handsome multi-organized mayor. I simply don't accept it. In the largest towns in other parts of the North, which are certainly hundreds of thousands, several hundred thousand, or even up to a million, the number of elected members of the country is often between 50 and 480, and I can't quite remember what. I guess there's about 60 in Oslo. This leads to a change in governance, a smaller management, or city council, or what people want to call it. It's a rule rather than an exception that several mayors are elected. There is one principal mayor and then a number of mayors, often coming from different categories, responsible for specific fields of law. We are very far behind in that regard. If we are not going to take some steps this way in Reykjavík, where will they do it? I also criticize this administrative bill, which I actually put inside a pet store, this is evidently just a special interest to a few members of the Independence Party, or is this a special conflict with the restoration and the future of Birts? I'm asking. I didn't hear that in the campaign. But we know of the interest of certain independents in this. I criticize that since it is still a government bill, it is so pathetic. The report isn't a problem. It only gets into the ark No. 2. That's all it's been through. The only evidence presented here is that this should be in the power of the community, that the rural community should control it themselves. Yet, there is only one community that should gain greater freedom to control itself by a change from the current law, which is the city of Reykjavík. Why, then, is it not possible for the next community down there, communities, to reduce, or do not need to increase? If Kapacavo falls over the 50 thousand, should he not be allowed to decide for himself whether he has a three - man strategist committee? Then the three major categories will not get in and other views will not come. Let's talk about this. Of course, the pressures of various views and diversity are reflected in the discussions, policies and administrations of the local community. So these are the arguments. So this is set up in the paper of this administration bill, which I don't think meets the criteria that are to be met with the presidency, I don't know better than to specifically say which opinions have been addressed and that it is compatible with a constitution and all of this, the template to be introduced by the board of directors. This report can't get into it. It's only a few lines. It says, by permission of the president: While in a report with a bill to the local government law (Second 850, 726th Legal Council of 139), there are certain reasons for the growth of the Council of the Council of State on Count 5. 1.mg. 1 1. In view of the self-control rights of a community to force such an increase in representatives by law, it is not right. This is all that is put into reasoning, reasoning with and against. It is to be a relatively well - founded conclusion that was in the legal process at the time and that was highly moderate, was actually a great compromise, and played a role in its view of right. Who thinks it's right? Is it public in this country? Or is it the highest. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson? Does he know that the city of Reykjavík does not have to multiply its citizens? This was the way it used to be when a community went up to 50 o'clock. The population was to be population in the mid - 52th century B.C.E. As soon as a community reached 50 points. The population was to be kept to a minimum of what it is, then, in Reykjavík. But now we live in Reykjavík almost 120 of you. man, right? That is more than double the number previously meant. That is why there was a compromise and a relatively mild case in the matter of maintaining the legalized change at the 139th legislation. I see not that the fields which are called by the end of that which is called should be made to weigh very heavily. Or can they not afford the government? Here's the bill to intervene in the affairs of this community or of the community. And that is an interesting wording, for it is not formally and in a specific chapter, as should be considered with whom the contract of the bill was consulted. In the beginning it says: This is produced in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has been presented to representatives of the European Union and the city of Reykjavík. They've been introduced. They were informed that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was developing this bill on local affairs. In other words, this is not their wish, not on the basis of their request. No, it's a special interest in the State Department. Read: Most V. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. Now, I have no idea what the position of Reykjavíkurburg or the current mayor there is, but it is not necessarily the crucial thing of this case, because the legislator has seen a reason to set this aspect of the democratic system a specific law frame, that in rural society, it should have a reference to the population of them to a minimum and so many in rural government. 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 15. And so here it has been said that their number increased to the current number, i.e. 23 At least. I don't feel that there's any means to be forced when there's a lot of room here anyway. The city will then have to go to only the minimum number that would be in accordance with current law. There are very many good reasons, and especially in the present, I think I think the word is in my mind, which calls for us to leave administrative arrangements in such important units as the local community and closer society to reflect the diversity of society better than it does if it is narrowed by relatively few elected representatives who make a higher threshold for individual parties with unique conflicts or views to get in and reach elected representatives. So the reasons for this matter are, in my opinion, unacceptable. They don't think it's enough. They don't think it's enough. The bill is tender, pathetic. It's no waste to be a management bill that does things in such an inexpensive way. Most important, I find it appropriate when it comes to areas as important as the democratic system itself and how it is done, whether it is in the community or in the Generals'field. I suggest the highest. First secretary of state to call this bill back. I think we have something else to do in this spring. He should see his own dignity in that it's kind of a prima donna, throwing it in here like this. I don't see what's at the top. A minister intends to work with it in particular. If it's true I suspect it's my idea and really it's in the bill's report, that it's a special interest for the Minister himself, he hasn't received any requests from either the Union partner or the city of Reykjavík, but on the other hand, let them know it, maybe call them, and tell them he was setting up a bill like this in the Ministry, why are you doing this? I'm asking. If the city of Reykjavík is opposed to this case, what if there is a greater power in the city of Reykjavík that is opposed to this matter, then Minister intends to press the challenge? Even in opposition to the city? That'd be nice to know. Is this such a burning ideal for the highest degree? Minister? How far would he go? A poor person, though, reminds himself that it is not necessarily necessary to determine the position of the Generals. Then we'd be opening up to each other's community, more or less all, small and large, perhaps having a lot more self-control than is in the current law. Humans have decided for no reason to set this specific code of law, which then remains stable and lies in place, but it is not that band political paramours can mean that they throw up and down political leaders according to the way winds blow. I don't think it would be good, at least there has to be some frame there, for the obvious reasons I think I've crossed. There is good reason to nurture the diversity and active democracy of the surrounding community by not having the thresholds high, to get elected representatives to speak for each case of concern. My first suggestion is, Madam President, to the highest level. Ministers call the matter back, but a word of warning is that nothing will be done with this if it comes into the committee. If this came out of there, the bill would be taken down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u36	Madam President. We're here for a bill to correct the change in rural government law, i.e. the number of local representatives. I have to agree with the members of the council here. I don't agree with the approach here, including In the light of the community's self-control rights to force such an increase in representatives by law. This is the same minister who considered taking over the planning rights of the city of Reykjavík regarding the airport of Reykjavík. It was not a matter of choice at that time. It appears that at times the right of self - control is honorable, but then it does not seem to be the result. This is also the government of consultation and of total or at least up with it in the beginning. I think it's a little special when we talk about increasing democracy and growing democracies that are being suggested here not to put it as an obligation that the democracies be increased by law. There have been things that had to be done with the law. Yesterday we were talking about the same pay contract that seems to have to be done by the law to get some results. Of course, if this works out, there are far more possibilities, more views being heard. I think that can clearly be the result. More groups find out, including the little groups that so far have not been found, so there will be more diversity. The first deputy of each party in the city is on pay so that we can say that the cost should not be particularly high, at least not saying it should be that way. Of course, this can be changed. This would undoubtedly include some changes in the work programme within the city council, e.g. It would be more likely that city officials would be on committees. I think there is also an opportunity to expand its width, so it would reflect the width of the community when more groups arrived. The Icelandic community sent a note to the bill last year, by permission of a president: This is in line with the democratic thinking that is behind the unit's regime and the rules for elections to the local government that local representatives represent the local community and thus can effectively reflect the will of the inhabitants. But it is also important to remember that the management structure established by the bill is expected that the value of rural activities is not expected to be very large government, based on the fact that the governor himself makes all major decisions on the management and administration of the rural society and is responsible. It also states that there are differences in viewpoint within the mayor's 11th paragraph. The bill that was then discussed. Behind the proposal for growth, there was evidence that a large number of city officials had remained unchanged since 1908 with one exception, such as the highest. Secretary afterlife. But the number of the inhabitants of the city increased tenfold, namely, tenfold. the number of voters behind whom the city council would have gone from more than 800 to 8,000. I think that there's every reason we look at this story and that the rurals who are going to have to respond to it might also think about it. It is predominantly the rural population in the capital area that has this population. Sadly, Akureyri has not grown so large that the population can be increased in accordance with this. Although we can also say that in view of the fact that relief agents, many of them are active in a rural government or the mayor, they come from the same categories. There are no more who can find out. Of course, there may not be any garantly, there may be more who would fit in with a class, but there are at least a greater chance of doing so. According to the city of Reykjavík, despite the fact that city officials are so many active, both main and deputy agents, they will not be denied, by permission of the president: ▪... that much of the city's litigation council is appointed representatives who are picked out of a group of city council members who have not even been seated on the relevant manifests of the mayor's election. With this in mind, there is good evidence that democracy is at least responsible for the government of the city. to a greater extent than at present, city completes who directly submit to their authority to voters. That goal can certainly be achieved by the growth of the city councilman... It is attributed to other ways of reaching this goal by reducing or reducing the number of representatives in it. Of course, that's not wise in my opinion, for it is actually a demeaning of a democratic approach. So I don't think that's the point of increasing democracy here. As I said earlier, the city council officials do not agree on this approach, either now or before. I have no idea what the neighbors believe in this. Their paraphrasing over this matter is not the first and last of the city. But other rural communities are also growing, so they might as well have to take this to heart as well. It's a mistake to do this. I think if we don't do this, this won't be real. There is a tendency to remain in control with those who have them. If this were permitted, it would mean that rural society in general would increase rather than decrease because it is just what has happened. The number of smaller rural areas has declined. It happened, for example. In my country society, there were a small drop of two, which isn't smart. The large unity that has taken place in many parts of the country should include more representatives than fewer who reflect most of the views everywhere, whether in the scattered areas or whether we speak about the city. I certainly hope this case will not be accepted. This is also a matter of both genders. The number of women increased during the last district election, the proportion went up to 44%. However, they have not increased as much as they are when it comes to the highest positions, whether the country or the mayor, or the pointy ones. Although we live well here in the city, it's not that everywhere. Instead, we have opportunities to cope with the task of going through elections in order to receive a democratic commission to work on local committees. Here in the city we are trying to have as many views as possible. in decrepitations, etc. to increase public access. But first and last, I think that if people find that more people have the opportunity and the real possibility to be able to qualify, because that's the way we experience that we're more effective if we're more successful than if we're just a voice out of a town we hope to be listened to, but it's certainly less important. I don't think there's enough evidence here. The cost of the city of Reykjavík is mentioned here, but it is not said to know how much savings it will be. As I said before, the first assistants are on the payroll. There's nothing to say that the control system could not change if the bill was done. It is also interesting to look to it that if it is not an obligation, it is not done. I think we need to stand on our feet here, senators who don't agree with this. I don't know that after this one was specifically wanted. Based on the disagreement presented in the comments of Reykjavík, I feel that it is unusual to be conducting a bill that has not been strongly desired by the mayor who is now sitting or sitting in the last place when this case was presented. I think it's a big mistake, and I really hope it doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u37	A respectable president. Now, I have to apologize for first sneaking into the platform earlier. I was so eager that I followed the numbers, not names, hope it wasn't a fault. But this bill. Of course, I'm related to the matter as a member of the Environment, Transport and Regional Affairs Committee, if that's what we call it. I ask myself, " What does this bill mean to other speakers? ' I'd like to hear the reasoning given when the delegates were reduced from 21 to 15 in their time, why that was done, I don't remember, or didn't hear it, but what was that argument? Was it a question of savings or something else? The evidence is not expected to increase democracy, and however, who knows? It could be that the purpose is to keep representatives that most people don't. They need an explanation for that, for the bill is dressed in the uniform that the delegates may be increased, allowing it to go against each other and make the bill, without even a very clear piece of paper or moisture, suspicious. I would've liked to hear the highest. A minister will tell you how much of the current city council or mayor would feel on this bill. Of course, we'll be on the Environment and Transport Committee getting representatives of every agency in the city to answer if this works so far, the bill won't be pulled back. It is still more peculiar, or it makes this bill suspicious that it is directed solely to one rural society. It's nice to discuss democracy in this relationship. Men have used a nice word here, close to democracy. The city has now reached out to another company, Kjalarnes, over Mosfellstown. This is normal both for this reason and because the population has soared and will continue to increase in the number of representatives over the next few years, that it is actually bound to the rise of representatives. There's a tendency to increase democracy in the city. We'll see this in the disappearing, we the mayor, and we'll try to get the people to tell their opinion on projects in the rest and these neighborhoods. It is all going in the same direction to strengthen this close relationship with our noses. It would be reasonable to think, then, that there would be real disappearances with real replacements that would have a higher power than today, which is primarily about making money for a number of projects, i.e. There are population elections, there are no special neighborhood managers. It is known from many cities that are similar to or slightly larger than the city of Reykjavík. Then, too, there are more and more projects in the country's country's economy, as well as in the country of Reykjavík. It is hard to see why it does not recommend more elected agents, so it is not unusual for them to be 21 or 20 plus, far from it. You can also wonder, take advantage of this opportunity, and think together in your capital area. Maybe they'd have to change the law again, but it's tempting to imagine a strong community with real mayors, sub-city managers, of course, that's what I'm not going to spend any time in here. But all of this may go down in the same direction, creating strong rural modules with enough elected representatives to enable democracy to be active, to act in the same direction, and, as noted earlier, to create political groups or populous movements, or transpolitic lists actually have the potential for developing a member of rural society. To make this small matter even shorter, I agree with that opinion. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son that the bill should be retracted. Of course, if it's not done, we'll discuss it on the committee and call both representatives of the local community and different representatives in the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u38	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I just got back from the annual meeting of the Concierge, I'm feeling something after that visit. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in rural government law that has the sole purpose of altering the number of urban religions compared to the fact that there are a greater proportion of rural leaders who run the largest rural society in the country and control other rural communities. For some reason, the Minister of Government doesn't seem to like it. I wonder and scratch my head just because we're above the issue. Although the government was not the most powerful person to address matters at the time. General, there are other issues that could be discussed here other than this subject, which may seem to be a hobby of the highest degree. Minister. Is this a reimbursement in a Senate language? Who's asking for this? What is the need to submit this very specific change in rural law? Is it the Union of Icelandic rural society that has called for this, or is it the mayor? Is it the local government of this one community that the law will influence? I don't remember doing that. In fact, I remember the top party members. A minister has used the legal authority available or the laws that require the increase of nobility in political gladiatorry with other members of the rural government. I remember it quite well, and I've heard things about it. But we're at what? A general council to participate in such gladiatorial reports in the city of Reykjavík, even though the company members are at the highest level. Ministers have some opinion and lack any protection in their armory? I don't understand. There are simply material reasons that there are a number of nobles, a number of local government officials, and that they are in proportion to the number of people living in each rural society. Where did these figures come from? Why 15? Why is it a sacred number at the highest? Minister if he believes the population is of no importance? Why not just cut the lower limit? Why not just zero? Should we have it alone, perhaps we can agree on that, or three? It's often good to have three people on board, if that's what the government thinks. Why is a minister having some division, since the percentage of elected members of the county government should not be in any way consistent with the population? Why 27? Is it any wonder that Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin died at the age of 27? What's that number? I just don't get it. I think we're wasting time. In some form of private matter, the General Assembly. The secretary of transportation and rural government, who is put out of no other need than to get into some sort of controversy - hardly an argument, I don't even intend to respect it with such noble words - in the county government of Reykjavík for a number of agents, I've heard a lot of things in that being, and that mine knows it seems suspiciously nearly to be a people's business, to pretend it's some other view that goes behind how many agents are supposed to represent and that it is growing according to the current law. I don't give much for the language I've heard in many places, although it's bound to my section of the city, the county government of Reykjavík. I don't understand the need for this bill. I heard why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was here considering the possibility of what could be done in real changes within rural governments such as the city of Reykjavík by establishing lost governments and replacing the mayor with some sort of missing government. Rather, it is encouraging to wonder how many people in rural government are best affected by the population of 50 thousand or more. There would be something that would be nice to participate in, but not a bill that will do nothing but change the rules of one rural society in the country and the country itself has called it nothing particularly. The community is just in preparation to abide by the laws of this country. But it shouldn't be that they should be doing this right now, putting this through a year before local elections so that some people can drum up with the idea that there'll be some election case in the countryside how many members of the country are supposed to be? Is it perhaps the issue of the memory of the part at the city city of Reykjavík that makes us discuss a bill to correct the change in rural government law? I don't know. That may be the most reasonable explanation I've ever heard. I believe that for the changes these may need to be very objective and rich reasons to step into the process that the law assumes in terms of the development of a administrative level of one rural government. I don't think that's easy. Here the Generals are entering another administrative level, and there should be more and more objective evidence behind such than the highest level. A minister has submitted or is included in the report. What will we do in the future if more rural areas achieve this goal or when communities join, perhaps resulting in a large and large population? Will the Synod of some special change always know how political winds blow in the ministry of the day? It's not particularly professional. It's simply not professional. I wish I could have the highest. Ministers would see their dignity in dragging this bill back, seeing that it is the most reasonable thing to do only in the legal course that everyone assumes and perhaps dwindle some other political battles against his party members in my part of the city of Reykjavík, but would not interfere with us. Allied into it. Let's not start changing the law here just because. I'd ask that at the highest. Ministers that he takes back the bill, or will we begin to see that he is going to walk down the Senate's Independence Department list from the last government, is he going to remask all the members of Congress, or are these the priorities that are going to go on now? If so, I'm sorry. I'm the highest. A minister might think a little bit about what is the real reason why he brings the matter up and simply retracts it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u39	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the changes to the local government laws. I'd like to agree with what's been said during the discussion, that it's kind of a big deal. This government is now 100 days old, and it presents the first cases, which can be said to come directly from government groups for special political emphasis or such. Last night, we discussed a case like a work-off that came from Resurrection, which led to the grand election, which they then passed through a government interview, and we talked last night, and hopefully we'll continue to discuss. Other matters we've been discussing from the government are cases that are legal for some of the reasons the government should bring in, such as a national budget or an EEA method and such. Now it is so time that we are seeing here the first political minister of the Independence Party, which is not subjugated by the system in the sense that it cannot be measured or proposed. What is that? Is it a political issue that was specifically discussed in the leading of elections, on stickers and booklets and posters with portraits of members of the Independence Party for an election? No, it isn't. This is a very strange case, in fact, because it's a reimbursement in a Senate language. This is a bullshit case involving several members of the Independence Party from the last council, from the last term. There are several members of the Independence Party who carry it on the plaguing side of the governor's section of the city in Reykjavík. Which is just obsessed with the fact that it must be better to have as few city agents because on average they are completely impossible because they would normally not be independent. Then comes the minister, Jón, the Gunnarsson of Aargen, the son of Níelsson, the Godfather of Guðlaugur Þór, Þórðarson of Gundars, Shirdi, Sandra of Dístóth, Dís Hafþórsdóttir, the Konráðsdóttir of Andersen, Vilsam, the Vilhjálmur of Árnason, and all of them. The members of the Independence Party, and are now presented as a administrative bill. The lack of ambition is in such a state that you just don't have a single word. It is totally normal for a person to present a bullshit case in his name to flaunt and support his people in rural governments for some scientific reason. But to invite the Allied council to be a administrative bill is such a serious lack of regard to what it means to present a case in the name of the government at any given time. I'm asking you, is this the word for a case that will come out of the way to fight for it? Are we going to start fighting for this crap from within the Independence Party? Is Bjort going to start fighting for crap from inside the insides of the Independence Party? I just don't have an extra word. I hope to see here senators and those who measure and talk about changing practices and a better future, and all better, more beneficial and more free, and what do I know, that they will discuss the importance of this matter. The youngest senator in history, I want him to talk about this. I want him to tell the people why this is a administrative bill with which he intends to vote. It just went through the board of government without anyone getting involved? Aren't people all right, Mr. Honorable President? Who asked for this? What we are dealing with in the 21st century, an independent group for review, is strengthening the democracy in this country. It's strengthening the democracy in the land. It is to promote local public opportunities at any given time in order to influence their daily lives, on the government ship, on society's institutions, on their destiny from day to day. by strengthening the government of the government, by improving the possibility of young people getting involved, young people being elected, young people being allowed to influence their prospects for the future. What happens then? Then comes this modern, liberal, brilliant government with a grueling case from the Independence Party about reducing the number of city Christians. All right, all right, all A respectable president. I think this crap is rooted in the period in which it is actually mentioned in the case of the case, which is the exciting time in the history of the Independence Party, which was naturally just a black, terrible time in the history of the Independence Party, for then he did not rule over Reykjavík for a while. It was more a time of distress not to rule over Reykjavík. And the scheme of revenge from 1982 is what still leads to creating this matter. For who? Perhaps for the mayor then, at that election in 1982. Is that what it's all about, the Honorable President of noon? Is this true of the old ideas that it would be best if only one man was in charge of the city of Reykjavík, whose name was Davíð Oddsson? I wonder if it is. I suggest that in his final talk on this matter, we show why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who has often surprised people in the Assembly Hall when he was faced with the spears and claimed that he was a man of war. In fact, even the one listed here has at times claimed that it is, and then it has been reassigned because of the highest. Ministers have shown that he can at an unexpected point, be a man of reconciliation. That's what we've seen repeatedly. I challenge him to be that man now and to pull this case back. This case won't be legal. This case is simply a dinosaur, it is a fossil, it is an old time, and it has no business in the discussion of the day. Nothing. There's a lot of excellent government officials sitting in the side halls. For us to be offered the opportunity to be included in the report on this bill: If the population of the city does not grow, expenses will be expected in the city of Reykjavík. What kind of compromise is this? Where is this report? Can it be expected? Not according to my financial records from the city of Reykjavík. It is not acceptable that the Ministry with the Minister on behalf of the United States will present a financial issue that does not hold any conclusions. I'm here to review the financial impact of an increasing city councilman from the city's financial office in Reykjavík. It tells us that at the growth of the city council, there will be more changes in the leadership of the city of Reykjavík. The first deputy agents will thus issue their payroll. Changes will occur in the fixed pay of other elected agents as well as the changes at the expense of meeting meetings. So the growth of the city councilman will, according to financial criticism, have resulted in a save for the city of Reykjavík to 28 million a year, a respectable president. Didn't the Ministry know about this? Was the Ministry not behind this, or was it just never to run out of data from the city of Reykjavík? Didn't come to speak to Reykjavík? Why not? Is that because the Independence Party is in smaller parts of it? Will a restoration and a bright future be involved in this charlatan game of independence to support a barren government position in Reykjavík? So mindless of my part, you've only rarely seen someone like someone who's talking to more parts of Reykjavík. If it's the best aid you've ever had. Jón Gunnarsson's minister provides the most remarkable thing in helping his friends in Reykjavíkurburg in the event of a rural election, I think that men can only pack up right away and not print posters in the event of an election. Aren't you going to make an offer, or what? Will There Be a Bright Future? Thus, as the city councilmen are more likely to find out, small groups are more likely to find out with the city councilman. A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's been said here. First of all, I suggest that this case be retracted. There is no business here at the Council. Second, and secondly, I suggest that the matter be forgotten. A committee that has it and that the committee turns to something more upbuilding, that the Allied Council does not become such a playwright political playoffs around here. I'd also like to make a statement for the highest. The local Ministry not to participate in such a famine drama.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u40	Madam President. I'm one of the 22 members of the city of Reykjavík. We are seven more than the city drunks who care for the same population. Yet, I imagine that the office of the city councilman in the interests of Reykjavík and its citizens is often quite extensive, even more extensive, than that of the city's people in the city today, so I would have no wish that the city councils were at least as many as me and the city council members. So I don't see the whole point of suggesting that there is no increase. Also, that democracy is so much fun when there's a multiracial chorus, when we're 63 in this room together, it's fun, much more than when we're 10 in the audience, just like now. As has been introduced, more views are being reached by the councilman, not only in the form of more individuals from the groups that are anyway, but in the form of new categories. New invitations enter when more seats are available, and these voices can be relevant to the development of democracy in the city. I'd like to consider how this bill is being handled. Minister. It says here in a report, with permission from the President: Then there's the material bill related to a bill that eight members of Parliament moved to Council 145... Materially required, it indicates that the previous bill has been removed and that something changed, even improved. The only change I see is that the number 23 is the upper limit of the number of local nobles with over 50,000 inhabitants in this bill up to 27. So I prefer to say that this bill is materially the same, if not the same, though it may strike four nobles. As already mentioned in previous talks, another use of words that I break in is granted to Presidential permission: If the number of citizens does not increase, it can be expected that their expenses will be spent in the city of Reykjavík. You ask yourself, " Where do these expectations come from? ' It has been presented in the previous part of a physical case, so it is simply a year's appointment by the Presidency Committee to the bill, which says, by permission of the president: The Councilship Committee has worked on possible changes in the work of the mayor and the duties of the city council because of the proposed change in the number of local council officials in the spring of 2018, which has, among other things, revealed that the growth of the councilman need not increase the financial capacity. That is why I ask myself, Madam President: " How can I expect my expenses at the city of Reykjavík to be spent when turning over a letter of law that would be returned to the city of Reykjavík for yourself that I have no more money? ' How can you expect that when it is black in black and white, it is not? Maybe you could've picked up the tool and called Reykjavík. It is often difficult to consult on large and large issues. True, rural law code is large, but as we have seen, this change turns to one rural society that is even next door. It is not difficult to consult this one person and ask if you can expect an increased budget or if this statement in a report can be applied at the highest level. A minister is a perfect folly as it seems to be. It's being served here. Of course, these figures and boundaries are mere human works, as are other laws. There is nothing to say that we must increase the number of local primes to the population in Article 11. County government law today. What have e.g. Chips and Hafnarfjörður pay, which is a large population of 28,000 and 35,000 each? What are they to pay not to be promoted, especially when we are on the 11th floor? The fourth gap, rural society, with a population of 50,000,999, and of that size is not one rural community in the country. If we are creating a five - step system, which the minister wants to turn into four steps, why don't we all use them? If a minister wants to change the gaps, why doesn't he let them reflect more fully the reality of the local community? There are, for example. In the United States alone, a group of 1,200,22,000 is not made, but is not done, or those who are up to 10,000. Why is it not to be split into two groups and to multiply, e.g. Company heads of Aargh and Mosfellsville? Has this been examined? Or the purpose of this bill is not out of a grammatical nature, but only because of it, as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, because the eight senators mentioned in the report have a perp that their role at the Council is to be in opposition to a greater part of the mayor's work to help their fellow members in the district election this year? Then you ask yourself, " What do my colleagues think? ' And especially: What does a better future think, which is in more part in Reykjavík? V.E.G. According to one minister, this change may be expected to save expenses in Reykjavík, which is at the very top of what the more part of Reykjavík is saying, in which the future is going to take place. How do members of the Council feel about the future of this nonsense, putting their name on the fact that there is a bill against a greater part of the town of Birts, where she sits along with other fine groups, all to the benefit of the election by the independents of the city? I agree with those who have suggested that this case be placed in the canker, whether by being retracted or simply by simply forgetting it at the council. I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u41	A respectable president. As a financial committee member, I would like to make comments about the cost of my lunch. According to the government's legislation on government finance, each minister should evaluate the influence of a head project, including financial impact. On official financial matters, we speak of the entirety of government funds, including rural society, which is presented in financial policy. I'll be advertising after the cost assessment with this bill. Based on the cost estimate, if you expect this to grow, then, at first it's not a good cost estimate, and secondly, it's not correct, considering the evidence from Reykjavík. It's really serious to me, so I don't say too strong a word. The bill was written at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and its contents have been presented to the presidents of the United States Society and the city of Reykjavík. As the report says, with the permission of a president, this bill comes down and down. Although it has some ornaments about the freedom of a community to control a number of agents, it is a delusion, for it is the wrong way to bring about such changes. We do not do so with commands from above. It comes in requests from democratic environments, comes from people or communities as a whole, since it wants to have a common system of things over the whole country for which everyone is happy. We don't want to see that there is a free choice for a number of local government agents where a lot of local managers rock, I don't know how much between terms of terms. We all know that fewer members of the countryside are, in fact, more practical for larger groups, where fewer voices come from. And the division factor of getting in and being a part of something, representing the people, will be much more difficult. We should aim for more classes, such as we've received at the General Assembly, more voices, not fewer. This bill is not called. It is specifically listed in the head of one rural society, with a argument that does not support itself and a paper that does not follow the official financial law on cost assessment. This is ridiculous. I demand a minister to explain why not even a cost assessment law is under official financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u42	A respectable president. First, the present law was presented as a bill of government, a law responsible for the growth of urbanism, not for giving rural communities any choice to increase the number of the present but to increase. It is also made up of some suspicious case when it is suggested that this be the decision of the local government, not of the Generals. It is spoken of as crowding democracy, and behind this matter, there is some different viewpoint. That's what they say in speeches. Councilmen say the number of city Christians is being reduced. Wait a minute. Senators reading at home, a respectable president, because it sounds like the people who have spoken, at least some of them, just did not read the language on tables here. This bill is not reducing the number of city citizens. It is simply being made up to decide at the rural level whether the rural society and the greater part there count the right to increase the number of local government religions. The question is, Do I think it's right to increase the number of citizens or not? I'm not gonna allow myself to feel that way in myself. But I'm gonna have an opinion that it's not in my power to put someone even more narrower than it was. This case was controversial when it was presented as a administrative bill in its own time. It was not as if it were an undisputed case, nor does it have to be taken lightly. It's like whisk. Congress officials did not trust the city credibles to make that decision. It is said that this bill is decorated with ornaments for greater democracy. It means more democracy in this change, I don't think there's any paper to look at. When it is placed in the hands of the mayor, the democratic representative of the city of Reykjavík, in this case, to decide how many members of the city they believe are, it must be an additional democracy, there must be some additional democracy to the level of government. That's the basis for the figures mentioned. It was mentioned whether a person cannot afford a representative democracy by increasing the number. Whether this brings additional expenses is a major concern. The city's review of the time when the bill became the law No. 138/2011 said, by permission of the president: The representatives of Reykjavíkurburg are not entirely concerned about whether or what position would be appropriate to take on the proposal of this bill to increase the number of representatives in the countryside. [...] increasing numbers of elected representatives will have an increase in cost, and this cannot be justified by a reference to cuts in rural areas and their low financial status in general. It is mentioned specifically in the city's review at this time that this will result in an increase in cost. We'll see what's going to happen now. The matter is to undergo Congress, receive an invitation to appear before the council committee, and account for their opinions. This includes the church treatment. If it turns out it's no expense, we'll find out. We contacted Reykjavíkurburg on this matter today, and we actually received those answers. But the answers are that there are conflicting views. There are conflicting views on this subject. When you talk after the cost assessment on this bill, there is in itself no cost in the bill. It is simply suggested that the local community have more resources, more space to make decisions about the growth of the councilman. It is not talking about reducing the number of city - full religions, it is not being suggested that there be an increase in the number of them, as is established in the current law, so the bill is inaccessible in that respect and what such does not have an additional cost. It will be the decision of the government, which will have consequences either way. It was said that it was necessary to increase the number of representatives of the rural governments in the country in order to match their gender ratios. In these cases, the results have been very effective in recent years. Reykjavík City has eight city councilmen and seven women. All over the country, there are 52.5% men and 47.5% women in the country. So there is hardly any argument in the case that the need for a greater number of government officials in order to match that difference. He won't be much smaller, on either side. These views have been heard, in particular among the smaller rural communities of many, and have been discussed in the field of the European Union, that there is still a greater reason to reduce the number of ideal rural ideals in many parts of the country so that they can be better paid to do their jobs, and to take a good time at jobs as local representatives, there is evidence in the matter much more than the other. There are some of the things we know at the Ministry that rural society is looking at these ways now, for the next election, suggesting a reduction in the size of local government cults in order to be able to pay better off the limited amount of money they have for the work the local managers do. V.E.G. President. Just at the end. For his well - known democratic love, he reads it. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the men's Pistula, and the threats are being made here that this will never be done, etc. and the minister should just withdraw this and not make war or anything like that. I don't think it's worth it. I don't know what kind of conflict it would be to simply suggest that it be the Court's decision in Reykjavík, whether to increase the number of local governments there for the next district election. It can't be some piece of democracy to take this step off the law and say: If you think, elected agents in Reykjavík, that this is necessary, that it is justified and that it should not be raised to the people of this city, you will. They have every authority to continue doing so in the law. All I can understand is that this case must have some objective coverage at the council, and it will be done in any way it will be in us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u43	A respectable president. You can't justify injustice in another injustice. If it was so bad when it was done with a government bill last time and it was so wrong then why isn't it wrong yet? The first approach to change was bad, and why repeat such a practice? This bill would be very normal if there was some book from Reykjavík, where it was being asked for a review of this law, but I don't know it and I haven't heard it yet. I find it interesting to talk about the cost of lunch. It turns out that public finance laws such as this do not work. It is now, for example. The change in this as compared to the current situation that may be up to 27 agents is not unusual, and it is not surprising that the cost for a certain number of city council officials will depend on the city's decision. I don't see that there's anything complicated about having light and low cost food with this, not just put your finger in the air and say, "It's gonna be something, probably, don't know exactly, just about. That's not how we want to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u44	A respectable president. It is possible to calculate all the issues that come before the council from very different conditions that we give ourselves, the others, and these. If it had to be calculated and costed if the citylike religions were to be raised to the limit of what is outlined in the Law as they will follow these changes, would that be calculated based on an increase in each individual, some level? I don't think that's our job. I don't think there's any detailed cost assessment required by the council on this matter. Of course, the cost estimate is passed by rural communities, which on the basis of legal decisions, such as this case, increase in the number of councilors. We can remember that by the time the city was enlarged. Since that was not necessary, people felt that it had not been necessary. Their numbers were reduced to save even. and reduce costs. This was done at the time. It is primarily about allowing elected representatives of the city to make those decisions on that basis and with the information in the lake how it will affect the town's business at any given time, just as I mentioned earlier, that there are rural communities that we know about in the Ministry that are considering these matters and are talking about reducing even the number of rural governments to pay the remaining ones to do what they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u45	A respectable president. Granted, the local community abides by the laws set out, but that is also to be done by the Minister. There I refer to a law on public financial matters that includes the government's capitals by means of cost assessment. This bill doesn't cost you any money, so I'm complaining. It's so simple. No more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u46	A respectable president. Just so there's repeated times, Mr. Honorable President, it's a kind of a knot between me and the other. paritaprevir Björn Gunnarsson, the Ministry believes that there will be no expense for this bill as such, so the Ministry does not provide a special cost assessment. This point was, of course, examined by the bill, the Ministry assessment that this is in this way. Of course, it works under the rules set out for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u47	Madam President. The ultimate argument. A minister for bringing a administrative bill with this peculiar action is that the last time the government law was changed, it was a administrative bill. Yes, but how did that become a administrative bill? This was followed by a large committee work that, of course, represented the local communities as the staff of the work. It was part of an overall review of a local government law. It differs from the private matter of the minister, who is employed, and who is absolutely committed to his initiative without being asked by one or no one, and without consultation with the rural communities. They're informed. Well, that argument doesn't hold much. V.E.G. Minister says he's expanding democracy. He's expanding democracy by pressing on to the representative democracy. He's increasing democracy by moving it from the Council and from the voters of Reykjavík to select a larger and broader government, into the hands of a more established city people, whether this increase will occur. This is what I think is completing things, completely. Of course, you can ask the highest question. Minister: So why doesn't he go any further, so why is this just appropriate in Reykjavík? Why doesn't he increase democracy just allowing the communities to break down and decide if there are one, two or three men in the county government? How many Western representatives do you need in order to protect enough of its share? Three? I'm sure they'd just like to have three, that's the easiest thing. Then they even went solo in the countryside. Of course, carrying such things on a table does not work. It is Generalis to protect the basic rules of democracy and set up the frame of the Democracy. That is why these regulations are in the law and have been for a long time. That's no coincidence. Let us not speak incontrovertly of the fact that it may be tempting for those who have placed themselves in a private government, to protect themselves and their groups by trying to have as little as possible there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u48	A respectable president. They're each looking at the democracy in this case. I have to say it. Of course, it's not my personal interest. But that's how the debate, as often in the council, is to make things personal. We know from previous years that this has been done in a most untasteful way. It's the acting of those who are not completely clear in my opinion. Let them play in harmony with the guidelines they set for them. Well, I guess so. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfuson's is supposed to be a bill that's closing in on the representative democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u50	There's a tight squeeze to the government here at the General Assembly to... yes, I'm sure those who have chosen here for the Generals. [[No.]] [[No, to the inhabitants. ...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u51	And vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u52	Yeah, that's the way it is. I don't see it that way. I think of it so that we are bringing it into the hands of the representatives chosen by the capital to represent themselves in the government of the country, it is in their hands to make a decision about it, and to carry it to the citizens of the city. We're increasing democracy in my opinion on this matter. We're not saying here at the High Council: Well, this is how it's going to be with you. You have 15 agents today, and multiply them, as is said in current legislation. It is in my opinion to influence democracy, not allow the city credibles to come to the decision, make this decision themselves, stand with it, and deal with it to their voters. With this change, we're just moving the power to them, and they can make it up to their city voters that there is a need to increase the number of people in the city. [[The president calls.]] It's just their decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u53	Madam President. This presentation is the highest. When considered, a minister collapses to suggest the only change in this one rural society. Suddenly, aggravate democracy so immensely by bringing power to the councilmen. Why, then, does the minister not suggest changes on other thresholds? Why not make a local society that is just more than 10,000 inhabitants of the world needn't increase to 11◯15? Would that not be just as much an increase in democracy? Or that a rural society crawling over 2,000 people doesn't necessarily have to increase to 5How7? There must be some harmony in the thought that long ago, living people have passed a set frame of law that, as the rural communities are larger and larger, it is reasonable that the rural government is broader, multi-organized. It's just normal. As noted here, it has become a very strange situation that in Reykjavík, the city is elected to be 22 members of the council and only 15 citizens of the city. It's very special when you start thinking about it. This would mean that the number of voters in this area would be properly covered. I miss the highest part, too. A minister should not open the case a little further. It's still a little fuzzy. He swears he'll do it. The minister, that this is his special hobby. Were these government officials in the Ministry? Now it is clear that nowhere outside the Ministry is informed that anyone has asked for this. Was it a secretary? Was that the driver? Who would be so interested in this at the State Department if it wasn't the Minister himself? I think we need a little more explanation for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u54	A respectable president. Who asked for this to be passed on to law last time? Was that the general opinion of the government that it was appropriate? [[Yeah.]] [[Up front.]] Did the councilman in Reykjavík agree that this would be done? [[Up front.]] No, it also says that the review I quoted earlier shows that there was even a department of excerpts about it within the city's capital each cost increase would be due to this increase. [[Up front.]] The case has been controversial. It may be that the reason is right. A senator feels that this is a reason to consider in a far - reaching context. I'll state myself ready to look into this in broad context. But I think it's important that we make this correction. We're not compromising the possibility of a city's growth in its citizens for the next county elections, but we're telling the authorities in that town: It's your decision. If you value it to increase the number of people in the city, you will have all the time in the current law. We may also need to examine the local administration laws in a larger context, and this work is already being done in some way in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u55	Madam President. I don't feel that this case is finished by the time I'm finished. A minister has not agreed to a well - meaning and intelligent suggestion that he should retract the matter. Then we need to discuss this further. First, I remind you that the requirements of the current law came in with an overall review of the local administration Act, a major review of which include There were financial rules and much more. It was named representatives of the Union's Icelandic community, and, as a matter of fact, the Ministry certainly wrote the bill. The bill was directly employed by a working group. A meeting of transport committees on the subject was found to be a major cooperation not only with the European Union but also with rural communities in general. They were regularly allowed to share viewpoints with the committee's work. It is entirely incompatible with the current media. The result was a solidarity in this working group on the new drafting of a number of local executives depending on the large population population in Article 11. It certainly was heading for the change, at least For the first time, it would have a major impact in Reykjavík. But it was pointed out that she could then, in time, perhaps within ten more, fifteen more years, begin to influence the large rural communities, especially if one of them, e.g. Copatives, cover 50. The people of the wall. They set up a ladder that is in the logical context of the multiorganized and broad rural government, depending on the population underlying. It says this about 1 1 1st paragraph. in the bill in its own time, this proposal, which will translate into the beginning of the lead-in period of the number of rural authorities in Reykjavík, at least 23 out of 15 are in line with the terms of the bill on replacement induction, a modification of approach to these materials. Experience has shown that in Reykjavík there were, in effect, more people active as city agents than the 15 selected persons. Almost 30 members of the countryside are active there because of the duties laid on the crew. Why, then, call this group of wolves when, in effect, they are almost entirely as if they were prime members of the local government? It is what the city intends and prepares to make changes according to its fact that it will be with its multiorganized mayor. Then there will be no need to call out and pay the guards back. Hence, the conclusion quoted above is that the city probably saves more money than increases expenses. Why don't we just stick to the law's directive that there's a considerable number of local government officials in this country's largest community and they'll be at least one of them. 23, if we have, for example. Remember that local government members of a community of 10,200 people can also be 15? True, they can only be 11. But it could be some unit government that wanted to walk that way, expand the country's approach and increase the elected representatives and reflect better on the diversity of society, decide to be with 15 members of the county government. It would be a strange conclusion if there were 15 members of a unit of 10,200 members, but also only 15 members of the unit at 120 levels. a city of men. I think it's the best. A minister completely overlooks the harmony and context of the objects in the current law. It comes like a thorn into it, unmistakably, and blows up in my opinion, though solidarity, with certain exceptions, in the city of Reykjavík, which has been about this frame up to this point. I think it's going in the wrong direction, and we're going in the wrong direction with almost all the northern countries, where there's a general tendency to increase in the general mayor or country government, and there are dozens of people in rural areas who are not necessarily more numerous than Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u56	A respectable president. I'm not surprised that there are differences between me and the members of the council of the left green, who have been primarily involved in this discussion. You were right. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon read here from a review of 1 1. The law, that it was in effect in Reykjavík that the officers were very prominent in committee work and other activities on the city's roads. The committees are elected by the government. Thus, they are elected on political grounds, and it is not unusual that the defenses are elected to operate on some committees. It's where the commission comes from. In this chapter about 1 1 1. .............. A senator did not read also, with the permission of a president: However, it is also important to remember that the governance that the bill assumes that the value of rural activities is not expected to be very large government, based on the fact that the government itself makes all major decisions on the management and administration of the Community and is responsible. I just think that this change, to bring this force to the community in this case, would be quite consistent with what we're going to see here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u57	A respectable president. I cut by the words of the highest. A secretary of transportation and local government for officers and wanted to ask if something similar could be done at the General Assembly for smaller groups at Parliaments who have difficulty putting up with committees, if it could not be simulated in the city so that all members can participate in all the activities of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u58	A respectable president. Of course, it is the Senate's decision to make in what way we work here. This has sometimes been observed and done during the last term. This was especially true of a council of some of them. Marty's senators. They felt that they could not do committees because of a small amount of work. At the council, it is customary for members of the general body to operate on two committees. Committee meetings are arranged so that they can attend meetings on Mondays, Wednesdays, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, thus readily attending two committees that meet regularly at that time. [[The point is, it's proved true.]] Thus, the council tries to meet this viewpoint. Since then, members of the council are staging people into committees, taking into account the fact that they are not included in committees as both Mondays and Wednesdays, they are being taken care of. Looking at how this was during the last term, apparently it was not a matter of order within the council, which is another matter. I'll only refer this to the council if they think it has to be faced in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u59	A respectable president. Today, a group of three members in which men operate on two committees, the members of a general six committees. There are more committees, and as a result, the category cannot care for all. Hence, when an interesting or necessary matter arises that the members feel is necessary to enforce and that is not included in the committees he is on, the members of the council need to jump between them and to be guests and other enjoyable ones in order to participate. The only thing I'm going to do here is make sure that all representatives of this group can come up with all the issues at all levels of the case. The problem is, there are not any committee meetings, we don't know what visitors said at meetings we can't attend, after that, because the meeting was not recorded. As a result, it is very difficult to participate in a discussion about the matter in the Assembly Hall, where everyone can participate. If you do not know the history of the case and cannot ask the guests further or take part in deciding which guest to take in, you will lose a part of the democracy that goes on at the General Assembly. It is now that there is a 5% threshold that prevents small groups from entering the council, although the number of differences per the assembly seat should be about 1.68% for one assembly seat. Our method of counting is so that the few classes, when not assigned to the council seats, usually fall to the council seats that have many votes. Thus, a certain democracies are being carried out. We say that it is difficult to participate in small groups, but we also make it difficult for them to do so. However, we could solve the problem. Instead of having a 5% threshold that prevents them from participating, the problem could be solved within the house. Reykjavíkurburg is e.g. with an excellent solution, just to allow the vice-cons to participate in the Committee to Re-Elect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u60	Madam President. You're absolutely right. A minister read from the review of 1 1 1. It also indicates that very large rural governments are not generally expected. There I believe that local governments are referred to, as are known in neighboring countries, by a large number. But the highest. However, a minister did not read the above paragraph directly, considering, in effect, that there are nearly 30 more than 15. You see, it says: The law can affect the number of representatives in other rural areas, but mostly only the largest. This is in line with the democratic thinking that is behind the unit's regime and the rules for government elections that local officials represent the people of the community, and thus can effectively reflect the will of the peoples. For some reason, the minister released this from his reading of the article. This, of course, is the democratic order for those regulations in Article 11. Then it's true what we just said, we could talk about the campaign order to the Generals, and the incorrigibly, high 5% threshold that leads to the offer of 4.9% votes and well for three members of Congress to receive no one. What happens then? The largest groups receive replacement seats. And exactly the same thing happens in the countryside if you force a lot of elected agents down. This will increase the likelihood that votes will fall dead from smaller sources, and it will be in the interests of larger categories and most often dominant classes of power in the system. That's what I'm talking about when I say this is a basic democracy. They want to back it up in the old thought rather than come to new times by welcoming the variety, including the rural governments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u61	A respectable president. I don't suppose anyone will miss the fact that there's a division between us. Senators on this matter. As noted earlier, this law was given just when it was given, and the greater part decided to go that way at the time. It is yet and again, and to that I must make comments, speaking here as a why. paritaprevir In his speech, J. Sigfússon's stylist did just that, under pressure from elected representatives in the city. It's spoken as if it's being pressed down. All I want to do is protest and ask people to be objective. If the situation exists in such a way as to bear witness. A senator believes and others here have spoken, that there is a great need to increase the number of city Christians, these groups are in part in the mayor as the situation is today. They are in a position to do so. There's no one taking that power from them. That's exactly what the Council decided, the Council laid down this box, and said: "You have to increase in the next election. We're simply saying, if you think you have to increase the number of people in the city, it's only up to you to do it. But no one here is going to be able to do something about reducing the number of city Christians, such as some of them. A senator has been giving out the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u62	Madam President. The hearing was resolved by the General Assembly as a team, appointed representatives of the local community, and suggested that a comprehensive consultation with the rural communities be made with the scale set here into 1,565. Count 11, par. a valid law in a specific logical context of which the number is adjusted according to the population subset of the rural community. That is what the Council did. V.E.G. Minister says there's a section of deemations on this matter. Well, I don't know about that. There's only one man spoken for this case here in the hall, that's the highest. Minister. But it has become one of six, eight members of the council who have spoken against it. True, the minister received a little answer, an answer from his party sister. That's all. There has been only one person who has given talks in support of this matter. It is not as if humans burn with him on the subject. I haven't heard from the Bright Future, Resurrection, Controversy and Annuity, and recommend the case. No, it's not like that. The minister has spoken to them alone, which, of course, underscores the fact that this is one of his personal interests. I repeat, in the end, I'd rather see that we were developing in the direction that, for example, the premium would give the motive. in Kopavogur, you'd start making use of the space at least to increase the number of representatives and welcome new occasions in these areas, and to rejoice if a subversive body offers its strength in this community service. So if bicycle riders, elderly, bald, regardless of who they are, choose to make their own battles a cause for rejoicing. It is a lower threshold, and we have larger and more diverse rural governments as they are multiorganized in this regard. Like what? paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir said it so well: It's a dinosaur, a dinoth. It's some kind of old ill on the Independence Party soul of this cock, and I don't think there's anything wrong with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u63	A respectable president. Of course, that's how it is, and those who are observing this case know it's a controversial matter. It'll even come. magazines in the comments of the city of Reykjavík, which I witnessed in my speech earlier. The matter has been disputed, putting it in the manner of the law. Now this power is just in the hands of most of the mayors, what they want to do in this case. The matter seems to be extremely delicate, especially for members of the council of the left green. It's true that I alone have been able to handle this case on my part. Of course, it's a government matter, and it's been granted to all members of Congress. There may be a warning about something in it somewhere. I don't have any information about it. But the main issue is that they make these decisions themselves. Hv. A senator was surprised that Kopavogsville had not taken the step of increasing the number of representatives. He might want to put it in the law. I suppose that would be the case if the people of Kopavog called for it to be very strong, that they thought, for example. would there be a significant increase in the town council? So, then, would they not be heard? I suppose so. This is a town council and a town meeting all over the city, and a community. We've been moving projects to rural communities on an increasing scale, just because we believe that the close-up to the citizens of our rural communities is more economic in that it is better if certain projects are there where the councilman is more close. And would they not be better equipped than the generals to decide whether there is a basis for increasing the number of elected officials in the countryside?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u64	A respectable president. Now we're starting round one. about bill to legalize the same-employment bill. When the first cell began here about 20 hours ago, I made a note here to note that the Allied had one copy of this standard, which I would not necessarily appreciate the best basis for the 63 of us in the hall to build our decisions on. So I directed to the president who was then sitting in the chair that the council would be supplied the 63 copies that I believe would be necessary to discuss the matter. With a quick passage here in a side room, I don't see these 63 copies, so I'd like to ask the president what their copies will be, and I suppose they're on their way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u65	Mr. President. It's kind of gotta be said that, as it is, it was something special that this biggest case of the Revolution began in the dark last night. You would have thought it was the way the Minister would want to discuss it in daylight. But all right, that was the conclusion of yesterday's discussion. I wondered when this was the first time, and in view of all the discussion that has taken place long before it came up, what it meant, this debate that it was the solution to all matters. It is not so, rather than many other things, but I have faith that this can support and can be a step forward. I certainly hope so, but I still worry that people think they can hold what they can't put on. It refers to 1,800 companies in this number of employees, of course, but we have tens of thousands of enterprises in the country that do not share it. Very extensive, e.g. in the scattered areas, there are a total of 10 to 15 companies. Although I'm not going to undermine their ambition, it's very important to keep this up. Even though there's a considerable number of employees behind it, it's not a solution for all of us. In fact, with the Witnesses present, a company can get a gold certificate even if it has a 3.5% salary amount, e.g. There is what PricewaterhouseCoopers have witnessed, the mail is for the photos underneath. It is important to be absolutely clear that no amount of pay is being eliminated. What I wanted to talk about is a lot. I have to agree with that. A member of my team that, of course, it was normal for this situation to have followed. It is illuminating, it is a transparency that has been spoken considerably of by the restoration. It would have been wise for them to follow the bill, so people could see it. We were here until midnight last night, and I've only looked at this standard. It's something you can't read through unless you're less baptized. After keeping the window in there, I think it's some kind of frame around the process that's supposed to be equally paid. However, it is in the hands of the companies to set their standard, to make their own frames. Here are some suggestions on what it may contain. You could think that comparable companies would use this for each other, but I don't know if they will, so that they won't always be working basic jobs with each other. I'd like to come in and see who's here to take care of it. Yesterday, it was criticized that an equal office would get one employee to handle this assignment. I don't think it works. I would have liked to see it go to the tax, thinking that the government and his office are far better equipped to deal with this with their tools and tools, that it is easier to strengthen their office to monitor this than to plan to follow it. Although we're talking about equally paykeeping, the underlying, pay, the tax, whether business or individual, is present. In some other places, the tax comes with it. Google has, like, one. A crisis in which this has been followed on the part of the tax showed that women are being treated in a way that is simply ill - treated and that there is a great deal of discrimination. I think there are others. It's, like, a... correspondent in the United States and other locations in Britain In fact, the minimum wage is legal, and there the tax has the initiative to review progress and to check whether negotiations are involved. There is one company, which is even operating in Iceland, Sports Direct, in a lot of trouble. I think a better monitoring factor can be made by moving him to the tax office. It has sometimes been said around consumer protection, around restaurants, that tickets were needed to prove that the place had to pass a specific checkup. It's, for example. such as in Edinburgh and elsewhere in Britain, there needs to be a note in the door, and British health authorities report each year on unremarkable sites. That's one of the things you can do. It would have to appear on the company website. I've been reading about the mail, N1, Deloitte, etc. who have been developing into equal salaries and certainly make it up on their page that they're going through it, but I think it's very good to draw it out in more places. As has been attributed, the pay law has grown, it is since 1961. They haven't been there, and this should be to make it right. Equal law has been repeatedly accepted and passed, but the remuneration has not been met. You wonder: " If you don't follow current laws, does this add anything to it? True, some kind of fines are laid, and they may well be. Then I repeat again that I think it's better that the tax has it and can be taken through it. This was arranged in 2008 on equality laws, such as some remember likely, and on the women's leave, a contract was signed between the government and the labour market parties on the road to create the standard we have for us - or I but not by other members of the council because I borrowed it. A man, of course, hoped that this would be a milestone, and something that a professional driver would strive to take to himself, to make remuneration, because it is not there. If I understand this correctly, I feel that there is a greater need for baptism. In the 3rd. it shows that some kind of confirmation can be obtained without any direct confirmation. It should be shown why it isn't, if it doesn't go through. But I think that in view of the response, we need to engage in a considerable number of professional drivers in order to get them to participate in this government. We are faced with the fact that when all the more objective issues to be understood between employees, whether it is worktime, education, experience, it can still be a pay factor that is too high, with a range of 55.910%. When asked about companies, they do not admit that women are paid less. Although that is a fact, no director says aloud: Yes, I pay less money because they are less able to negotiate. But it is a fact that women often accept the first offer while men keep talking about pay. Therefore, the secret to pay has not been taken away, it is still there. As a result, there is a natural information standard within an enterprise. I don't think it's gonna happen until it's real. Maybe we can do it by these means, I don't know. I sure hope this helps. It is noted that there may be causes for a person to receive a higher salary, whether between genders or members of the same sex. However, enterprises and government agencies are to inform them about the pay between the sexes when objective views are taken into account. They should tell if women are less paid just for being women, but of course no one makes that recommendation. If there's a pay difference, there'll be a few reasons for him. The news today was that the people on the floor at Istavia or Keflavour Airport, staff of the SFR, had signed a contract. It has been said on the part of the government that money cannot be raised in the country in general, for it will all go away. But we must still settle our pay, that's all I believe, that we're going to do it and that we're going to do it to the executives. But they've been reminded that it's not possible and that everyone has to slow down so that things around here aren't going to start happening, inflation and all of that. I feel that we need to discuss this openly because it must be part of the equally rewarding effort to increase the pay of women. There's got to be a lot of it. As we have seen, all classes of care are more and less humanized by women and are sadly less paid. It's not absolute any more than it's the whole equation. I don't feel like it's part of the discussion either way. The Minister and the Government now believe that the sex difference may be 7.6%, as indicated here, and the unexplained difference between 5.6% and 5%, and then we know that there are different types of enterprises, between sectors, etc., that these sources are actually able and whether they think the economy will tolerate it over the next three years or whatever this standard is meant to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u66	A respectable president. Granted, the problem this bill is trying to deal with is serious, and it is a noble goal. Even though changes may lead to changes, not all changes necessarily lead to progress. I agree with my goal to eliminate unexplained pay, but the question is, Will this solution achieve that goal and if so, if there are any side effects to be considered? I asked yesterday whether the regulations in this bill, 25 staff, or other thresholds, or the number of conditions, would discourage an enterprise from moving its staff number from the lower group to the upper group. I was told that it was unlikely. Then you think of contractors. What effect do contractors have on an enterprise in this situation? What effect do contractors in the company have on the company's equally paid estimate of the companies involved in which they are involved? Are they included? How, then, does paying a salary affect the situation? I guess that's not a salary, then. It's a payment for work. We know that in various places, everyone in a cleaning area is just a contractor when it could possibly be paid people within a larger area. I also made comments that the post was closed. I think it's really unnatural that the law is being set and the standard isn't all open. When we put a law that points to text that cannot be read, it's not for transparency and not for the public who are supposed to understand how the system works here. I went through the bill. There were a number of factors that impressed me. That surprised me a little bit. I noticed that there are a lot of people who have to come to the process of an equally paid business. It's for starters with a witness, it's an equal room, it's some stakeholder, which I don't quite see from the bill who is. I'd appreciate a definition of that, but this stakeholder makes an assessment of a equally paid system. I don't know exactly who he is. Then there are the labour market partners who watch everyone go to a witness and they call for information. It would be nice to know what information they can call for, since it is said that they simply decide. Then there's a Minister of Regulation. It's a private room with the certifications' legalization. There are agreements, when different parties negotiate for purchases and terms. It has a flat surface in which these topics are discussed. It's a re-education of the University of Iceland with a training course for the carer. It is Iceland's Standard Council and finally the Council of Parliament with the sentence of this law. A total of 10 people are involved in this process. I wondered how smooth it is in communication, whether all the information necessary is stuck somewhere, and whether the whole flow works with so many people. At the end of these general comments, I'd like to mention that I found a specific surface on the subject that I feel is missing on the bill. In my opinion and for myself, the main thing I need to get straightened out is so I can decide if I can support this bill or not. That's the question about the data that will be collected about people. I don't know what data will be collected and who will collect the data, where they will be stored, how long and so forth the streets, and whether the personal protection issues are easily carried out. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir suggested that the tax handle these matters. In a sense, the tax has direct information on income taxes and has some additive effect on the fact that the data contained in the equally pay form are true. But how good is it to have this intervening effect personally seen? We are, in fact, best of all, in a particular conflict between these two views, that there should be secret and personal protection data, and that there is no secret and that everyone should be able to reach the prize. Somewhere in that range is the culture. I'm not sure we're far enough in the discussion about where our comfortable environment is in that matter. We're arguing about whether to publish the answers, so there's a little debate in there. I think it may be very useful for a bill of this size to complete the discussion first because it has so much influence on how data and what data are collected so that it can testify to the accuracy of the certificate given to the companies which is equally paid. As a result, I could see that there is finally some pay database of 70%, probably not by names, they would be stratified by job names and companies, so that there is not much between connecting a person to pay information. So I'm putting a big warning signal, a big red flag on this point that I feel is completely missing from the law. I can't make it up to myself if this bill is good for society without knowing how this information will be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u67	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize a equally paid witness. First, I want to say that I have a positive view of this matter. I believe all the steps in the direction that sex - based pay is good, and this is a positive thought, and the bill suggests that there is a desire to try to counteract the unwanted sex - income load. Women have for years, basically since centuries been lower in labour markets and have not been approved. For the sake of history, I'd like to recall that if we looked back to the last century, women first gained wealth in marriage by the turn of 1900. Indeed, they have met many barriers to the workforce ever since. Although they are from 1961, they have not been able to handle all the things we would have wanted to make women and men equal in salary and career opportunities. The laws have not been enough, but they certainly have been a very powerful tool. We need to increase the number of tools we can use to strengthen women in a job market, so that as much as possible, the amount of pay paid is covered, the perks on pay, I mean. Let's go back to 1907, maybe not too long ago, but women started working first, fishing workers in Hafnarfnarfjörður. Then there were women with 15 pennies in their time, men 50 to 60 dollars in time. To date, it is still counted, and it has been shown in studies that women have about 10% less pay than men. Of course, it is not acceptable if women have the same education and have as much responsibility as there are hours behind them. So there is still much work to do. If this bill is affected as we approach the goal of dating, it is very good. I think all members of Congress are ready to work with the bill and perhaps with the bill. some adjustments will be made so that we can further achieve its objective in the efforts of the council. Because we're talking about women in general, I'd like to say that although it's time in 2017, it's still difficult for women to reach the same positions in companies and men and to get the same salary. I was coming from the annual meeting of Conjugation, and it was explained that for the first time in Landing, a woman was conducting a major project for the expansion of Breasing, she was head of the operation. It was the first time in the history of the company that a woman was conducting such an assignment. Let me just hope that that a fine woman is treated as well as a man who had done a similar job. That's it. Although we feel that we have come far and that we have other nations, in many respects we still have work to do. We can't accept giving any discount, that it's okay if we're approaching our goal and we have 90% of the men's salary on a similar job. Also, the question is, How do we value our work? What are women's jobs and what are men's jobs, and what prices do we generally place in our community? There, too, we have a long way to reach the success of the so - called traditional work of women. It also explains that men are not going to do this, as should be normal, because they are not as valuable in money as in dollars, although they are as valuable as any other work involved in managing money and so on. We know that caring for care, teaching, and services are highly underestimated, and more often than not, women are stuck with them in their work on too low a reward. We have a long way to land, or maybe not far, but there is a gap left that is somewhat steep, by reaching equality of the sexes in many areas. It is stated in the bill that an economist should hold this, to make sure the company is granted the same amount of pay. I think it's a good thing. You can totally look at the fact that the tax can do that with more information, but I think it's a good way to promote an equal rights firm. I think that institution should be able to do that part, but of course it needs both money and resources. It has to be assumed that she will be able to obtain money in agreement with the responsibilities entrusted to her and that she can call for information on demand from the tax and the agencies involved. In terms of the situation this assessment is based on the management, it must be recognized by the labour market. It must be checked regularly, updated and reviewed, and handled all the factors needed to show that a company does not discriminate against its staff by gender. If the executives are to be members of the labour market, I believe that they will be acting as employees to have access to the standard and be able to promote it in such a way that it is designed to reach what they need. The labour market partners also need all tools and tools to play a surveillance role. This is thought to be three years old at a time, and I think it is very important that you can enter a company to check your position and perhaps have an unexpected poll wide and wide among companies, whether or not you really follow the kind of pay card they've already received the assessment of as well as the certification, which will be able to advertise your company with positive merits. You have to live up to the signs during the three years, and you expect assessment to be done at any time. Now I don't know exactly what it's like, whether it's the highest. A minister has agreed with the labour market partners in the progress of the case, since they are expected to be under observation. But I think it's very important that they have all the tools they need to handle it. They also need money for it. All of it costs money. There's talk of day's fines. It's a question of what they bite. But I'm still saying that I think we're going on this path, and I'm sure there'll be things that will go better, and the council can fix it up. I'm at least. Very positive about winning the case. It's just long since it's time to legalize that. We know that the VR, the Reykjavík Trade Association, has been working with the same salary over the years and no doubt more people, this is not entirely new, which is positive. There are role models that are natural to look into. There's one thing I think I have to do, and that's about the pay code. I'm very worried about pay secrets in companies, and I'm thinking about how she plays in the process of achieving people's salary if they continue in the company. We know exactly what the trend has been for many companies where men get a lot of sorts of sports, uncooperative overtime, car strengths, and things that women do not offer in comparable jobs. Will this be addressed in the corresponding pay certificate system as well as in the remaining standard? It must be done if this is meant to be significant. If the pay will continue and the companies continue to look along as the standard, and the review of witnesses will not reach the target of the bill. I believe the secret to pay is one of the elements that need to be eradicated. Companies are to be on tables so that people can accept the value of a job and what is paid for it. It must be avoided from being paid under the table and by other means, and from the time the person receives the job, men are more likely to obtain all sorts of stitches made afterwards. The attitude of the people of the land has changed dramatically in this regard. Men are not inferior fighters for the obligatory pay of sex. That's very good. This is not possible because the sexes stick together in this struggle. The drop'll break the stone. [[Up front.]] They represent femintic men in the hall, which is very good. In the end, I want to say that this is a good thing and a step in the right direction, but I continue to worry about low wages in the country that are mostly paid for women that are not normal in 2017. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying, and I'm sure, that I agree with an original bill the highest. Social and equal minister; equal pay for the same job. But -- and it's always so boring to hear such a ◯enHow, but I can't form an opinion on a bill in which I have insufficient information. I don't have this IST 85 standard where there are the requirements that companies and institutions will have to meet. I have no idea how much this bill with its good and valid goals will cost a company. How much is a remuneration? Before I take part in putting some things at the company, I want to know exactly what I'm doing to them. What do the companies have to pay for this testimony, and who will they pay for this? Is this going to make anyone rich? I completely refuse to participate in any system, some automatic money machine, so some class quality anywhere can make money. I'm not participating in giving the Finnum Ingolf sons of this country more for nothing. As mentioned earlier, an essential part of this bill is attached to some piece of cards that I don't have access to. There is one copy of this standard in circulation here at the council, and photocopying is forbidden. If I want information, I'm gonna have to sit in front of one of the senators in this room who got the copy of the council library, he might forget it on his desk when he goes to dinner or something. [[Up front.]] Since it has been stated that copying the post is prohibited in any way, we are in a position to establish a system of author-proof laws. There's no way. Some have wondered about the cost. In the morning issue of April 10th, issue of Awake! was an informative article that speaks to a subspecies for professional society. There she clearly explained that the induction of a equal pay position in her company, with a few dozen employees, cost about 4 million, yet gently estimated. If the cost of equally-employment runs at such sums, some million, for a company with only 25 employees, it could easily be impossible for many of them. Not all companies have that amount of money available, even every three years, but the bill assumes that the trust needs to be renewed. I can only imagine a similar confusion as around the electronic IDs, that the companies of the country and institutions will be pressured into business with someone we don't know who will be. Even the companies who have taken care of these items have done well and have lived ahead of their time in removing sex - based amounts of pay are even partially punished and have to pay the cost of looking after something they've always been clean. So if the process of going through equal wages is complicated, long, costly, I wondered if it wasn't simpler and less expensive that the State could just take care of it and even take part or completely care of the cost. Now I'm just thinking out loud, but I think it's the most reasonable thing for those who do wrong with the law to pay the cost of those who are all right. Finally, there is one point I don't feel clear about this bill. In every part of the world, companies and organizations are spoken of. I'd like to know if a group of people won't have to get the same pay as they do if they have that particular number of employees? I can't figure it out. Is this part of a community? I don't feel like there's any further definition of companies, as we're talking about here. Is society like the sports movement of a company? Today, there is a substantial difference in pay between the sexes in the sports. If even the highest sectors of sports were reached and could thus contribute to the same benefit for professionals and women in sports, I find this bill very enjoyable. If you're inside the law and you need to move, you're gonna have to pay off men and women who kick or throw the same ball of the same money, we're talking to each other. But if this applies only to companies and institutions and not partners, then I think the law will miss it. I also wondered if an organization like that. Business organizations are not sure to be in, too. I think that's an important question. The bill includes companies and institutions. I want to know if there is no such organization as the employment community, its staff, and its members. Would SA, with its people and the six members under the same roof in the house - to - house of employment, not have to accept such a reward? Maybe the highest. Minister of Social Affairs could give me the answer. But this needs to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u69	V.E.G. I'm not going to stand here and dive into the bill, and many people have managed to do it before me and have done it well. I'm just gonna stand here and discuss the value of this bill and what it means to me and my daughter. This is a change in the labour market that will likely lead to a brighter future, yes, I said that for Leuh Karin Garðarsdóttir Mosty and her friends. Jóhanna af Örk, Rosa Parks, Alice Walker, Audre Steinem, Susan B. Anthony, Simone De Beauvoir, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Eleanor Roosevelt, Jeannette Rankin, Coco Chanel, Helen Keller, Benazir Bhutto, Madame Curie, Cecilia Harriet of Brigstock, drottning Elísabet I., Sacagawea, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Florence Nightingale, Amelia Earhart and Mrs. Finnbogadóttir. Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, former president of the United States, told a free store interview, with permission of presidents: If the world is in constant danger, all effort must be made to increase the knowledge of women. The sexual equality is the largest and most important project in the international community. Furthermore, she said again by permission of the president: ▪ It took me a long time to understand how my election opened the world for Icelandic women. Women are elected in 1915, but it is as if they have not trusted in political involvement until it was an example that they could influence and even win such important elections. In 1980, Mrs. Vigdís was the first woman to become a national leader. Today, we have reached nearly 48% of the female delegates at the General Assembly. When I announced to my friends back home in the United States that I had been elected at the General Assembly, they were happy to me, but when I announced to them that women were nearly 48% members of Congress, they didn't believe me and cheered me up. Women's equal struggle is one of the most important battles in human history, and it is a battle that we will face for a long time. Each step forward is a victory. Before that, I listed women who took both big and small steps at their time, paid a way, and cleared a path for us sitting in this room today. That we should be at the point of discussing our rights, my right to get the same salary as men in the same job is something that some of these women would never have believed when they started their struggles. We are at 1st in equality as measured by World Economic Forum. The results are due to be proud of us, and we are going to continue leading them. I've often said and will often say that we have the courage to do things differently, better, despite being one of the smallest people in the world. The law on equally pay-authorization is a means to achieve the equal remuneration. We see gender - based levels of less than 8% in the public market and about 7% in the public despite a law forbidding sex - based pay system for years. There are two factors in Icelandic society that need special attention to achieve equality that are sexually violent and job markets, pay equals, and other professional leaders. The main objective of the law is to eliminate unexplained pay prior to the year 2022, for it has been illegal for people of gender for half a century. The first general law on equality between women and men was given here in 1976, with the goal of promoting sexual equality in all aspects of society. That would be the full amount of pay when women and men average with equal wages in their lives. It's still a long way to get caught. There are various factors, unexplained rates of pay differences that are just one of them. Other factors in this way are the unsalaried jobs of women in homes, shorter working hours, and many more. These factors lead to lower women's position at the end of their retirement, since their pension rights are usually much smaller than men. Semi-employment is an administration device, a company goes through a diplomat's agreement to show whether the salary equals are in the state of the Union, which says whether there is a sexual difference in pay. As a result, people begin to look at things in their own life. Is that not good? Isn't that something we want? This will lead to problems with pay decisions and is part of our political effort to eliminate gender pay. Interestingly, companies who have already gone through this process voluntarily are positive, at least they have been positive, and positive. Here are companies such as CCP and Drug Corp. These are not small companies, these are leading companies at that job. As many have discussed, this bill does not cover all aspects of equality. There are still many steps to take, and much must be corrected in the community between the sexes. I look forward to and will make an effort to experience the day when we stopped discussing certain professions as either the female class or the male class. For example, I want to choose from female carpenters, pipes, or automobiles when I need them or when I take my children to nursery, they receive a group of positive, smart, and fun men. Two years ago, at the nursery I was conducting, I hired seven men out of 12 employees. We had an equal share of women and men, and our wages were equal - low but equal to ◯ And the days were never different from those of us. How wonderful it was to serve in the nursery during that time! Sadly, though, all seven of them left me because my salary was too low for them to work there longer. They went back to study, not to become teachers, but to be educated in other fields of employment, where they come in for a better salary. Another step in the equality struggle between the sexes that we need to exercise for being taken is that women and men will be enabled to coordinate family and professional life. It is long time for employers to take the necessary steps for women and men to make this possible, e.g. by increasing flexibility in organizing work and working hours. As a result, Britain is on an ever - increasing scale. I think that this first step in recovering money is a step we need to take. Then we'll take the next step and the next one. It would be a pleasure to see employers support both parents'flexibility in taking a birth certificate, taking a stand, and being prepared to pay higher insurance bills in percent to make sure that fathers use their right to be with their newborn children. The roof we have raised does not appear to be high enough because we were expressed at what we heard. a welfare committee that reduces the intake of birthworm by men. We'll do something about it in this government, but I would also like to see professionals take steps. I think this bill will push them to do it. As director of the school, I experienced that in most cases, women at home were with sick children, usually without pay. This may be an opportunity for professional drivers to set a good example for fathers to follow the flexibility of mothers and encourage parents to divide the days of their child's illness between them if they are both working secularly. I know this bill doesn't address all the equality issues of the sex that we're going to correct, but I'm glad that every step we take is to match the position of the sexes. Remember, one step always leads to the next. I will support this bill and expect more members of Congress to find a way to support it, take this important step - and be sure I'm looking for the next one.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent, especially for his own experience. It is interesting to hear things as they are. A senator came in there. I may have wanted to ask you what. A senator on the subject only related. Hv. A senator here spoke of the former workplace at a high school where men had been able to expand their jobs and maintain equal wages, but he would still have, because of the low pay, if I understood correctly, the employees did not stay on the job. I'd like to make that statement for any doubt, I don't know if. A senator listened to my speech yesterday, that I support the case. Many have wondered that looking at this too far as the only answer in these matters could result in maintaining the conflicting system between classes in this country. Hv. A senator spoke of the nursery. We have a workforce that is very sexual. Hv. A senator knows this well from his work. When we enter the current labour market, roads, and count equal pay for the same work in this strange labour market as it is, we have a good reason. A senator's concern that if further action is not taken, this could lead to the promotion of the situation we are living in today that is, unfortunately, not good enough when it comes to earnings according to different jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u71	Thanks for the answer. I'm going to read again Mrs. Vigdís's words: ▪ It took me a long time to understand how my election opened the world for Icelandic women. Women get a vote in 1915. It is as if they did not trust themselves to take part in politics until they had an example that they could influence and even win such important elections. It may be a risk to us, but I believe that with these first steps, we may lead to the next step where women dare take control, dare go to other professions, dare leave the women's class, and in the building with a much higher salary, afraid to move on with the differences that are already there. That we should make up the women's class, what's that? We need to move somewhere. I'm not going to swear that this is a way to do it, but I think it's one step we dare take. I expect it to give us what it gave us when Mrs. Vigdís was elected president of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree to take this step and that it can lead to good. That's exactly what I'm wondering is that we have to be ready to take more steps; the next steps and the next, and still more, whether it ends up in a whole marathon race, or whatever it takes to achieve complete equality. I'm convinced that it's not only that women dare do something. I think there are a lot of women who simply don't have as much choice as men have in different fields, in different classes and places and towns and cities. I just agree with what. A senator that the idea of living with male and female castes is absurd, but it is somehow deeply entrenched in us. Worse still, it is deeply rooted in us to appreciate traditional men's work for more money than traditional women's jobs. For some reason, if caste becomes sexated, so that women enter the male caste, it is more often than not necessary to reduce their wages in comparison with other wages. I name the teachers' class, the male class here 100 years ago. I think this is a deep - seated problem that needs to be addressed in all areas. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator, I agree that this is a fine step: Will we not join together to take further steps to achieve perfect equality regardless of everything?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u73	I thank you again for the answers and the fun conversations. I say, "Yes, shake my hand now and do this." Let's be pioneers. Let us fight the challenge of a low - paying job. I just talked to you about what. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter says we're doing men's work now. We're at work until midnight and we'll be back at 8:00. It may have to be made available for women who have always been able for men, and the situation needs to be recovered. Maybe the other options, so I name them, e.g. Just as flexibility in the home, reduces this difference. It may be more fun for men to stay home when they are shown flexibility and consideration in a job market, when they have nothing to run faster and work more. It's a community question. It is not our sole responsibility to shoulder responsibility with one bill, but we must lead the struggle with this bill and probably the next one, pushing work and society as a whole. To live with the equation, you have to make the way for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u74	A respectable president. It has been interesting to listen to the discussion on this important subject. The case is based on the Community Treaty we've agreed on, the Constitution of Iceland, on the fact that there is something we would like to be in our country of Icelandic society. It has only been discussed with the benefits and shortcomings of the existing proposal, but I intend to get, by permission of the President, to read a report on the position of men and women in the Icelandic labour market that a team on pay equals won and returned in 2015. This is the opening article, with permission of the president: ▪ The right of the sex is not just a matter of justice but also an economic issue. Research has shown that increasing equality and improve the status of women can increase economic and economic stability (Slotsky, 2006). It has also been shown that enterprises controlled by both men and women are more successful (Elborgh-Woytek-Weyek, etc., 2013). It is, therefore, not only correct but simply wise to ensure equality and the remuneration of the sexes. Of course, it must be fundamental. This is one of the ways. When the proposal was first made, I will admit that I was concerned that in view of the years we've worked to create the vacancy, develop it, ensure that there are witnesses, that companies and institutions are ready to go through it, that this may be a burden. It has been observed in the meetings of the first person who passed through IST 85 Status, the customs manager's office, that this is a lot of work. I want to praise the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for the fact that the output and proposal that has been made to meet this proposal. It is also noted that the workers of the labour market have led this work, they have driven it forward, and one of our largest unions, VR, has adopted a type of equally paid witness, with this bill taken into account. That's not least 3. that refer to the mass exports. The general rule is that an enterprise or organisation where 25 or more employees are usually working on a yearly basis should gain a witness and look to the demands of the IST 85 standard, which will cost less than 11 of you. K. and we expect people to be able to afford it, and then leave, which may be significantly more work and cost, through the process of getting a witness from a legal official. Two. it is said that the labour market organisations are allowed to negotiate in collective agreements that the assessment of the company's equal pay system or an institution, in which 25-999 employees usually work on annual grounds, may receive this confirmation. Then it is also noted that it will take time to implement this and for the companies to record it. This, I think, is a positive process. This has only been discussed in previous talks, where the discussion was considered. The report shows that this has been accomplished, which I think very important, in agreement with the labour market organisation and the government and the labour market body on the pay equal conditions of the sex. The Task Force is a member of the National Association of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the National Schools and Education and Culture Ministry, the Union of Iceland and the Organization of Professional Science. It is said that special consultations have been made with the labour market partners on their authority to negotiate in collective agreements that the assessment of the company's annual labour system and the organisation, where 25-95 workers are usually working on a yearly basis, an enterprise or an institution has the option to determine whether the assessment is based on the IST 85 standard, or with the confirmation referred to above. I wondered if it is possible to be even more able to meet the companies in some way by taking these costs into account. It will be very important to have the cost of recovery - and it's a pleasure to have the highest. The secretary of finance here - and this is one of the things to consider. In my opinion, this will increase economy and economic stability, as I said at the outset, because both men and women are governed by companies and institutions. This is my personal experience, and research has shown that this is the case when we have relatively equal proportions of the sexes. It's the best workplace I've ever worked at. What a joy it is to be able to stand here and say that being a member of the International Parliament is no longer a man - made job! There must be 75% of men for work to be classified as male and vice versa when the same ratio applies to women. It's like so many other things we've done, and it's got a lot of hope that I don't think we've come up with the ultimate solution. This is made clear in the report that I started to quote the status of women in the Icelandic labour market that the pay element - and this was also shown in a report that I recommended at an equal convention in November 2015 - was largely due to the gender exchange of jobs in the labour market. We have the greatest gender exchange in the labour market of the countries we compare with. There is also considerable gender division in other parts of the North, but it is our greatest. It is said that this applies not only to vertical shifts by professions but also to local labour markets. Therefore, it is very important that a plan be carried out on equality. I would like to strongly encourage the Minister to stress that how we can change young people's choice of learning and working in Iceland, we're reducing the sex change. Soon after I took over as a minister of equality during the last term, two meetings were held by the Outfit, male or male male, men. It was interesting to hear from individuals who had broken out of the box choosing unorthodox jobs. Both women and men in the meetings used the same word to describe what it was like to be the only man in a large women's position and what it would be like to be the only woman in a large male job place. It is clear that they had not spoken to each other and had decided how they were going to describe it; they simply had the same experience. It's hard to be a Neanderthal. It takes a certain personality, so to speak, to clear the path. That's why it's so important, because not everyone who wants to be the pioneers is so important that we work hard to change it. These data also show that the main reason why men do not look to so - called carering or teaching is the reward. But I don't think that's just why we're seeing men with less pay don't choose to go to jobs where women get more pay. So I think it's a lot more complicated and difficult to explain, as it is in general to explain the reasons for discrimination, how our attitudes and reactions develop. Finally, in my speech, we want to mention the other points that have been spoken about the need for our attention. That's even. the position of women in general in positions of authority. I would like to strongly encourage the government to consider that there is not a equal share of men and women in the government. We have a small number of women who are managers of companies in Iceland. These are factors that are of vital importance to us that we keep on thinking. This is where the birthworm has been called. There is a serious concern when you hear a young minister say that they are not sure if it is possible for them to take the birthmark. That is not the case in 2017. In order to be a role model, it is important to send out the message that birthworm is something that both men and women take, which parents take. There has been talk of how we can cut down the work hours and reduce the strain on Icelandic families, and how we can progressively work toward men taking the responsibility of women for household chores, for studies truly show that it does not seem to be the case. In fact, research has shown that only a few men in Iceland know how to wash a washing machine. I promise you, this is a relatively simple device that works well. Then I want to stress that there are other primes at the highest level. Social Affairs is being brought here to ban discrimination in the labour market, and such standards may also be used to counteract discrimination on the basis of non-general differences. Shows such as background can be watched. Factors, such as sexual orientation and disability, can be viewed. It has been observed that these are factors that have a difference in salary and occupational progress. I expect this case to go to the General and Education Committee where I sit. I look forward to dealing with this assignment and to review the comments received. Perhaps there is an opportunity to improve the situation so that it produces results for individuals, for men and women, for the companies, for the institutions, for the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u75	A respectable president. I can't afford to talk a little more about this. I think these matters are quite thoughtful, and I think so, like the first speaker, why. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir, it's good to have the secretary of finance still in the hall. That's why he doesn't have to change his panels. I'd like to discuss what needs to be done more, as if I only had a word at what point. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty about now. I want to impress you. V.E.G. Ministers in this highest. Governments have spoken of equality as one of the big issues of this government. If the government's treaty is examined, the following on equality matters, by permission of the president, will be as follows: ▪ In a broad sense, justice is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. There, equality in a workforce is a major factor. In order to match sex - related pay rights, companies with 25 employees or more each year adopt the same amount of pay. It's a good first hat, but it's the only thing that says straight words about equality. Then it is said that if you are a parent, you must strive for the best possible service to young people and to have children in your community. There are reports of different family types and the likes of the family and that the maximum levels of birthworm will be raised safely during the term. Although I have studied Icelandic at the University of Iceland, I still don't know what safe steps this is, but it'll be interesting to see when it will be done. This does not necessarily mean that the government does not intend to handle equality in any other way than with this bill, even though it did not enter the government covenant. People who have come to work elsewhere are broken and need to be treated. That's why I want to impress you because it's not only in a workforce that is difficult to balance, although it certainly does. It's in almost all the community, I'm afraid. In a job market, it is not just a reward, though it is certainly enormously heavy. As I said in my first speech yesterday, I welcome this bill, but I'd like to point out that there's more to be done. A far - reaching sense of justice is an unbreakable right in a just and reasonable society, states the Treaty. That's good. That's a good line. But I'm the highest. A minister to marvel at applying this sentence alone, and certainly the rest too, but look at it alone: 'The justice in broad terms is an impossibility of a righteous and reasonable society'. That means we have to look out for the equally paid witness as well. Let's take that step. Great. I trust a minister and a minister. A committee to find a way to get the same pay witness working and that it will all work out as well as it can. But let's take the next step. What is the situation in the world regarding men and women? I went over it yesterday and I don't need to go in detail about it. But she's the same here. What is the situation with women in positions of influence? What is the situation regarding the property of men and women in the stock market? Do we have any gender analysis of the stock market? What is the status of women in the decision-making process? Despite receiving constant pay, where are decisions made? We men just go golf and steam together and make decisions there? How's that? How is it approved? The General Assembly and even the government equality policies followed up? In recent years and decades, how many fine releases have we agreed on and accepted many policies in these areas? Have they been followed closely? What do we see in education, in increasing financial resources in equal education? One small example: The 25 - year - old rule of education is particularly true of women who have children, quit high school, and then want to go back to high school, but it cannot because the government intends to maintain the 25 - year rule. It is not enough to put beautiful words on paper and then wave one good thing, which I reiterate to is good. [[The president calls.]] A collective view is needed, and there is a need to have the courage to place money in the seminary in all areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u76	Mr. President. What a happy day it is when this bill is so far away that we are going to the committee! This may be one of the most important bill proposed. Government this spring. This is an important bill because we're taking a step towards pay equal rights. Of course, it's supposed to be equal between the sexes in all things. I can agree with that with all the members of the council here. This bill will not solve gender equality in all fields, it will be far away, but it will solve certain sex rights. It will eliminate gender pay within companies. I hear some guys are a little jumpy. Congress members discuss pay secrets and worry that pay will be publicized. I'm one of the fastest opponents in the country. During the past 20 years, I have published a magazine with information on the income of thousands of Icelanders to vary from one to the next. Some feel that these matters are better kept secret. I say, "No, it's better for the public to have as much information as possible." We should know what others are like. Then we can say: Is this true? It's true, yes, but is it fair? That can be quite another matter. Surely it is not fair for a person to have a different salary. There is another school that says: There is no gender difference in pay, there are other reasons, it's just an unexplained difference in pay. It is not certain that there is a gender that will explain the difference, even if it appears in a survey after a survey that it is the only change that explains the difference. But okay. Let's go to the equally paid witness and say that it reveals that there are no gender differences, and that is a very pleasant confirmation that we have done well. I am convinced that there will not be an outcome in most companies and institutions. I know about some companies and institutions that have gone through this process. Some companies have given up in the process. Why have they given up? This is because they had to adjust their pay systems too much. Which way? In the direction to raise women in pay as men sitting next to them who were doing exactly the same work; they had a higher salary. The company has hesitated to make these changes, and that will not be a pleasure. I'm proud that this conflict with the Revolution is in the bill form, and I'm content with the receptor it's received from most members of the council. On September 15 of 2015, I wrote an article called ◯ What do we want with regard to the construction of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A., and Awake!, on September 15, 2015. I'll have to read from it two points. I am happy that today I have had the opportunity to witness twice in this article. At my annual meeting, I quoted the sixth point: The use of natural resources is positive when it comes to the fact that uninvolved nature is also a resource. - This is supposed to be the red strand of land activation. But the eighth point is the case we will discuss here: In all areas, it will be guaranteed. I feel that every company with a particular size should have the same amount of pay, but not everyone agrees on that. It's probably going to happen on its own, because people don't want to trade companies who don't pass that opinion. This, of course, should be the case. Who wants to do business with which the sexes earn money? Who wants to trade a company that says, "I don't have time to do this. " I don't have time to fix my pay slip. I don't know. There may be some who seek such a business, but I say, I don't, I'm not interested in dealing with such a business. However, experience has shown that it is not enough to appeal to a sense of dignity; it is not even enough to appeal to the laws that say no discrimination is due; it has been legal for more than half a century; and what have we achieved? There's just a 10% remuneration here, elsewhere you've mentioned 12% or 15%; even if it's only 2%, it's not going to be a pleasure. There is no high price for getting this injustice out of society even if there are a hundred thousand calls, even though there are even some millions, because the cost of discrimination is based on factors such as sex is totally unacceptable and there is a spot in Icelandic society. I am very pleased that the minister of equal rights should do this one of their priorities. As we have noted, there are, of course, other issues that we need to make. There's more to it, it's not just about the rights of the sex, we're watching people's rights with disability, the rights of children who don't live together, and so many other things. Although the bill we want to solve is presented here, and we are here to provide a committee, certainly not all the problems we would like to solve; not even solve the target problem, i.e. fluconazole, it will undoubtedly reduce these pay amounts. It's a very good, big step in the right direction. This is a bill that has drawn a great deal of attention to the world over. People will look to Iceland as pioneers in this area. We can be proud, all those who support this bill. Today is a happy day in the equal struggle of the sexes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u77	A respectable president. As the minister says, equal pay has been bound for decades, but it is still necessary to halt by special measures, such as this bill on equally pay validation is intended. You see, sometimes you need to bump on things that are already in the law, as we in my section pointed out when we wanted to add such a monstrosity into a bill about the land rights here earlier in the winter; it would have been nice to have the minister's support to the operation that I now put a little under the same hat as this one here. V.E.G. Minister is the Minister responsible for the government's staff. The public sector is also the part of employment in which it works rather than men; they do relatively low pay jobs there than in the public market; the health and education systems hear under the Minister's staff hat. That is why I would like to ask, in addition to the milestones that appear on the bill of equally pay, some work is going on within the Ministry to strengthen the women's classes that hear under the state. Is it possible to increase low-paying women in public service, doing so by special measures, not by percentage increases that also raise the higher-priored ones? Is working to raise the floor in the public, which will do much more good for women than for men?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u78	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to get that question because it has not been a week since I appointed a special group of workers to investigate the difference between government labour systems and the general labour market. I know this isn't exactly what it is. A senator asked about, but by agreement between the state and the union of public employees in the late autumn, a special book was made that the employment market should be leveled as well as the government. One step in that direction was to level the pension rights, and this was done by action in the late autumn. The next step was to appoint a staff appointed to representatives of the public employees' unions, specialists from the Ministry and from the Union to the university community to find the most effective methodology to reduce this level of pay. I fully understand that this can affect the pay of nurses, for example, for example. There is special reason to look at classes where jobs are not working, but they must look to the pay factor. That's exactly what we're doing at the Ministry now. Not only are we taking the step of this bill but we're working on it at more fronts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u79	A respectable president. I certainly hope that the Minister has it in his power to strengthen the underpaying classes of the government. However, the fact that the 18 - page review of a national financial programme that recently arrived in this town at the General Assembly points out that the health system will actually be cut down 5.2 billion, fixed, once a new Land Hospital has been removed from the equation, after the population has been increased - when all the factors that are confused - are taken out of place - remains to reduce donations to the hospital by 5.2 billion in this five - year period. This is not just a very important system for all of us Americans, but that of women's largest workplace in the country. The minister mentioned that the secret to pay is a poison in his bones. Well, that's good to hear. But I would like to ask if, after moving to sign a free trade editor, the income form there, he would have considered taking action within the Ministry to lift a promise of pay, such as looking at the Norwegians who have the local payment record all year online back in time so that any person in the world could literally be looked up whenever there are a number of different kinds of safety nails in favor of personal protection. This would likely benefit, as the minister says, in the battle against sexual pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u80	Mr. President. It is now that although someone says there is more to it, it will be no less with it; there is even more. Health benefits are greatly increased, and they will also increase to the hospital. It's about the factor that's had. A senator mentioned, on pay, so that preliminary application is published on public staff. Information on the income of a number of public employees and, for example, all members of the Parliament, has been published in this income sheet. It'll still be open just the same. However, the provision of temporary stress is strongly emphasized by the head of the government, but the final tax file is not published until quite a bit later. However, it is also open, but it just doesn't draw so much attention because the information is much older. I certainly do not intend to close this important source of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-26-60.u81	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a very good discussion of this important subject, both last night and today. Many interesting things have come out, and I wanted to remind myself of the main points mentioned here and answer the questions that have been addressed to me for further explanation. A significant discussion has been made about the position and its bioavailability. It's a pleasure to see what a good position I've put at the moment. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who has become quite popular here at the council as the head of one of the standards. Yet, I have been assured that it will be fixed quickly, confident that any member of the council will have access at least once before the case comes to the 2nd. It is true that in many ways it is special when legislation is based on a standard that is then accessible exclusively to pay, but it is by no means unique. We know a number of such standards that lay the groundwork for various laws that are not completely accessible. However, it should be noted that in the bill's report the requirements and the way companies and institutions work to achieve their certification are quite clear. It has only been said to monitor the level of certification, whether an equal room is properly equipped to handle the situation, whether it would be more appropriate for such monitoring to be placed elsewhere, as in the tax authorities. There I am convinced that the surveillance is correctly placed in an equal rights firm. This is equal and should be viewed as such. But there is also nothing to forget about the role of the labour market and, in particular, a union to which they are intended in this case, as I believe that the temperature and the weight of the surveillance will always lie. In addition, do not forget that at a meeting, the weight of the work on the company or organisation and the employer is heavy. An equal sitting room will only check that an enterprise or agency has met its obligation to evaluate and validate. The role of an equal rights firm in this context is primarily to collect data and information and then provide unions by incident. The cost, or scope, has been mentioned here, how extensive it is. Here was an example of a company whose initial expenses would be 33/4 million, if I noticed correctly, with a dozen employees, that was not precisely stated. We've investigated it, and we believe that this cost plan is worth the upper limit of the numbers we've heard as the real numbers of the companies that have gone through that sort of assessment or testimony so far. The number of numbers around 2 million is not uncommon when it comes to smaller ends. In this context, it may be helpful to remember that a company of 25 people paying an average wage in the country today is about 600,000. each month according to the Habitat, pay expenses per year have an average of 200 to 250 million. 2 million are less than 0.1% of the company's annual pay expenses. It is considered entirely within all limits to the burden of costing such a assessment when considering the interests on the other side, which are the main interests of women, in terms of pay-or-employment conditions. In this context, I also find it interesting to think that there are many forms of employment involved. We place all kinds of terms on institutions in this context. I have long spoken of a simple rule of action, a strong and competitive environment for the job, but in this context, I think a little special that publishers of simple regulations are aware of this when we make a considerable amount of cost exchanges for companies when it comes to taxation, annual accounting, review, etc., when it comes to work protection and security requirements at our place of employment, when it comes to the environmental standards of various kinds. All of this is important, we are here to protect society's interests, protect employees' interests, protect environmental interests, etc., and feel perfectly justified in laying these charges on the job. When it comes to equality, I don't think it's any less important to look after the rights of the staff. Although this certainly means some cost to the job, I think it is totally minor in this context and in relation to the interests involved. Access to information was considered, where the data on e.g. pay is available and this is the case. I think there might be some misunderstanding. Enterprises, of course, keep an eye on the pay information of their employees, then the employer reviews the pay system and retails within the company, but does not maintain the central pay database or distribute it. It is still in the way that the tax manager and local taxpayer already uses. It changes its bioavailability to any existing remuneration data. There's also been quite a talk about going into pay. It is proper to maintain that the law on sexual equality has been canceled by the posati family by forbidding staff or binding in recruitment terms to inform about the purchase and terms of the sex. It is in the case of an individual to inform about his own salary, not his/her business to inform about the salary of all his employees. Protection is also important. Whether he would care to inform his salary or ask his colleagues, it is forbidden to place obstacles there. It is good to bear in mind when considering the bill discussed here. Equality is an important step in reducing the pay of the sex. Of course, that is not a systemic solution to the amount of pay we see. This is not a single period of elimination and elimination of sex pay or the equal status of the sexes in the labour market. Of course, a number of factors have been mentioned here, which all of us are expected to have an ambition to work forward. There are factors such as domestic or family responsibilities, equal access to maternity, work time has been discussed here and how to shorten it and how to match the status of the peer when it comes to such activities. There is such a subject regarding a sexual or sexual market that is extremely sexual here. There we need to work at how we balance the position of the sexes. Still, how happy it is to see that an institution like the customs manager's office that has gone through the equally pay contract! It was evidently the next step of the office to wonder, " Why is the workplace so sexual? ' What can we do in the workplace to reduce this gender? Why are men primarily worthy of honor while women do office work? They made it there, for example. in conclusion that 12 hours of waking up may have been more appropriate for women than for men. Perhaps it would be advisable to offer more flexibility in a shift plan or a statue shift for eight hours, etc. This is known from other sectors where watch periods have been shortened and shifted to make the work more attractive for women. I think that's very positive. I think that we'll see that the indirect effects of this law, if the bill is that of the law, are no less than the direct effects, i.e. to get the managers of enterprises and institutions to consider sex in their activities. What obstacles might there be to the career of another sex? What is it that makes less men or women available to us? What can we do to change that picture? We will never eliminate gender pay on a job market any different than that of reaching the level of the sexes when it comes to working, when it is time to study. We have a lot of work to do, and we need to take pride in them as much as we do when it comes to the reward of our own life. These are all factors that we need to keep looking ahead. However, there are also factors that do not work out the same as wage work and are not intended to be handled. We continue to have a wide variety in prices, competition between sectores, competition between enterprises. The pay level of an enterprise can be very different. Semi-employment is not intended. Businesses can be competitive, they can be very modest about how much money they can pay. It is not the government's job to step in there and somehow try to equal it. It is simply a free competition, a free market. It is similar between sectores, of course, where there is a very different salary level, and we will not settle it in such a way. Of course, it is the production and value in the industry that when it comes to the level of pay it can handle. While I am very professional to the left green and their senators for the same salary, it may not be surprising that our views may be somewhat different when it comes to the labour market. To say that, I'm excited to observe the progress of the General and Education Committee. I am very happy to see how far - reaching support and positive the matter is being used in a chamber. I think it will be very important for us in the fight for greater equality in the labour market and for greater equality in the community. Also, other factors that may be referred to less should not be minimized, since they always refer to sex - based amounts of pay; the bill also includes other nonverbal pay of the job market, e.g. When it comes to the position of immigrants in a labour market, which we know, often in a greatly inferior position, they may not gain their skills, education, and knowledge in a job market. After all, the bill is based on the simple methodology that companies and institutions need to build their pay systems on an objective basis, they need to be able to explain in a grammatical way what accounts for the pay distribution and remuneration of the company or the agency. This is where it is that my knowledge of a very powerful device that I immediately became fascinated by the moment I met the same pay witness as the ideologies that were behind it. It is a tool that has been developing in a workforce for a very long time. First steps were taken that I consider agreements in 2008, which have been developed in cooperation with the labour market partners. The bill leading up to the council was developed in close cooperation with the employment unions and unions. I am very pleased with the conclusions presented here, and I trust that the matter will be successfully established at the council. Thank you very much.
