ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u1	The president wants to report that he has received a word from Congress of Pirata on the change in human committees. Birgitta Jónsdóttir takes Gunnar's daughter's place as head of the General Information and Education Committee and Einar Brynjólfsson is the daughter of Hrafn Jónsdóttir as a deputy of the same committee. Smári Mccarthy takes the seat of Eva Pandora Baldursdóttir as head of the trade committee and Brynjólfsson Brynfjölfjörðursson as Halldóra Mogensen's replacement on the same committee. Eva Pandora Baldursdóttir takes up Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir as an assistant to the Economic and Business Committee. Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir takes the seat of Eva Pandora Baldursdóttir as a guardian of the budget. Eva Baldursdóttir Baldursdótttir takes Birgitta Jónsdóttir as the chief member of the board and board of directors and Halldóra Mogensen, the Smári Mccarthyr of the same committee. Birgitta Jónsdóttir takes Halldóra Mogensen's seat as an assistant to the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u2	It is a arrangement between the presidents and members of the council that meets today and tomorrow can stand until the end of the year 1. The 2018 budget is over. It is a meeting arrangement, as is 3 mg. Sixty-seven. Congress. Today, there will be a general debate over the budget bill followed by the development of financial and economic ministers, but tomorrow, Friday, there will be debates about individual Ministers. Economic and financial ministers have as much as 15 minutes to history now, and members of all Congress and other members of Congress have ten minutes each. But they are allowed to respond, even with the limitations that if we speak to the minister of finance, only members of Congress can give a reply, and with talks of spokesmen, the minister of finance and the spokesmen of other members of Congress are permitted to give a reply. Tomorrow, Prime Ministers will participate in the discussion, and at the end of that discussion, financial and economic ministers will proceed. The detailed arrangements for this discussion will be announced at the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u3	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to be funded for the year 2018, which is the first case of the 147th legislature as the Constitution and Congress Act. In accordance with official financial legislation, the bill should be submitted on the basis of a political arrangement that should be in accordance with its objective. The bill is presented with a special copy of this guide, which includes the presentation of further exchanges of state funds as well as collections of budgets, legal classes for stakeholders and other projects belonging to Part A of the State Fund. At the same time, there is an overview showing a comparison of expenses between next year's accounts, funding in accordance with current budgets and budgets for the upcoming budget, as well as the next two years' budget. I call attention to the fact that this publication does not have legitimate value and that funding is all at the price of 2018. With controlled and long-term schedules, it will be easier for one year to monitor the development of financial partners and projects in relation to their policy development. Information in the Package Leaflet will thus increase transparency, as well as the introduction of knowledge about financial resources earlier to the heads of the states and other operators. Madam President. During the last term, new laws on government finance were adopted, promoting more progressive economic and government policies in the long term. The government's financial policy to the next five years was submitted last January in accordance with these laws. The policy allows for more share of government management over the entire programme period than the previous policy to offset economic instability and expansion. The focus is placed on subsidies of the state's debt during financial policy and thereby on future growth payments. The government also proposed its first financial programme in March. The budget adopted by the Council at the end of our spring involves further development of financial policies to five years of age, and it also provides the means for this bill to be financed. Four economic goals were set up in the programme; government management, particularly in the early part of the programme period; stableness and reconciliation in the labour market; a fourth place in public service and infrastructure, based on strong employment life and stable financial status of the public. A new work ethic, though it is indeed getting on. Many benefits are involved, among other things, support firm and reliable in the management of government of public finance, promote economic coverage at the World Parliament and in the community, and make a more objective discussion of public financial matters. The building blocks of this new process are financial policy and financial planning. They aim to establish the total economic policy framework and then decide how the frame is exported to a unique financial level. Funds then expand on individual language categories. In addition to the financing bill, the copy of this publication then presents a collection of budgets for individual institutions and projects. This year the budget bill was published on the morning of the election Day. Is it the first time the bill is published publicly before it is formally submitted to the General Assembly? The objective of this change is to give the members more time to study the subject of the bill and thus provide a basis for a more objective discussion on the subject of the bill when it is discussed at the General Assembly. At the same time, I find that the number of the bill is now available in computerized form. During our last session, there were helpful tips from members of Congress and why. It's a legal committee. They have been sought to meet them for prisoners, and I know why. To the council, the best thanks for their cooperation. Madam President. In the context of this, I would also like to mention that with a changed layer of work it is important that you pay off the bill until it is finished. Thus, according to the Generals Work Programme, it is assumed to be the case 3rd. the bill will be November 23rd. It is a great stage if the bill could be completed at that time and, in the same way, it is necessary to refer to the requirement of public finances. This makes it easier for government agencies to work for financial gain to their work. By completing the budget until then, preparations can be started earlier with the aim of laying it up for the General in mid - March, thus increasing the time the Parliament has in mind. Madam President. The main project of the government and the Council next year is to preserve the successful economic success achieved in recent years. Inflation is low, growth rate has decreased, unemployment is minimal, and commercial power is high. Government ideologies, balance and vision, are not out of the open. Icelanders are accustomed to a wide variety of economic fluctuations. The high incidence of the crown, much higher interest costs than in non-contestants, and high pay rates in short term inhibit Icelandic companies in competition with foreign companies living in another business environment. The budget last spring announced a successful return to the cost tax system so that several groups of tourism would reduce the level of worth tax to the general level on July 1, 2018, but the general step would be reduced from 24% to 22.5% on January 1, 2018. In view of the fact that prior tax change was low, and it was undesirable to make two changes in the tax system over a short period of time, it was decided to delay the conversion of values to January 1, 2018. A partnership with income and pay-offs ensures that the economic policy targets are met despite the delay of the conversion of the changes in force for six months. Madam President. This time, the 2018 financial bill allows for 44 billion leftovers for that year. This is equivalent to 1.6% of GDP and is an increase of 0.6% from the current budget. I call attention to the implementation of the bill plans that will be followed will increase by 13% in the real value of the state's annual budget in two years. That's probably more of the experience in a two - year period than you've seen in recent decades. In spite of this, we are able to produce a total of 3.8% of GDP. Clearly, in the coming years, we will not see similar growth in government expenses. The government stresses that public funds are well-used, that government activities are efficient, and that expenses will be used effectively. A respectable president. The wealth of the households has grown rapidly over the past few years and is now higher than ever. It is important that the high level of labour market stability be maintained so that financial growth and success in the general economy can be maintained. After extensive changes in the pension rights of public employees during the 20163/42017 years, workers in the public and public labour market work is continuing to meet the qualifications. The government supports the labour market partners for further improvements in the Icelandic labour market model to the northeastern model. Contract agreements are to create public functions that will bring benefits to practicality and good performance. Health costs have grown largely in the budget of the budget in action with government policies. A total of 8% increase in welfare expenses, or 4.4% higher prices and pay increases, compared to the 2017 budget. The sea is going to work on the construction of a new Hospital on Ring Road, which adds 1.5 billion dollars. Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property. The increase in stock costs for these projects will likely fall over 2019 and 2020. These changes will appear in the next spring financial program. In the first part of the next year, a new medical hotel begins to operate. The number of nurses and daytimes will be increased, the infrastructures strengthened, teamwork strengthened, and telecommunication services will be supported. Colon cancer begins, there is an increase in health control and health care issues in communities. Buying drugs will be strengthened, including in cooperation with other countries. Social security spending in 2017 has been found to be higher than expected. This, for example, results in an underestimated cost of rising pension criteria to minimum wage, whereas an increase in biofuels is higher than in schedule. The bill assumes that the loss of pensions due to employment will be reduced and during the election period there will be 100,000 dollars. Free income target achieved. Each high school student's donations continue to rise, and language technology will be fully supported on the basis of a new effectiveness programme. The soil of animal soils will become more difficult, and the maintenance of the road system will be prominent during the year. Madam President. The total debt of state funds has dropped the first part of 2017 by nearly 200 billion dollars. with a decrease in interest costs of more than 8 billion. However, interest payments continue to be very large and will reach 72.7 billion dollars. in 2018. Public debt is still more than 30% of the law on public financial matters, to which extent it is expected to be reached in 2019. Plans plan to continue paying off debt, and high interest rates in Iceland make a very expensive debt. The government's government contract highlights a united system of green taxes. Iceland must not leave its share in a contribution to pollution. We are members of international agreements there, but we are not less likely that Iceland wants a clean country and a clean atmosphere. The budget is an important step in this direction, with an increase in carbon costs and harmonization in the charge of gasoline and diesel fuel, as well as the inquisitors for buying electrical cars being extended by about three years. The tax expenditures and tax efforts will continue to be used effectively as well as the growth of the black economy by the forced action of the tax authorities. When there are many suggestions from three groups of work that now paid off in the summer, all of which have to that end. Now it is working to bring them in as legal uniforms, and the bill of this material will see light of the day in the spring. A respectable president. According to measure OECD, there is no country with greater income balance, no country with less gender and no country with less poverty than Iceland. Few countries have enjoyed economic growth as well as Iceland and the 2018 financial bill show that this practical trend is not only improving the position of people in the labour market but also the position of those who rely on the support of the welfare system. A competitive life - style that attracts talent includes secure welfare systems, moderate taxes, efficient government business, and consumer markets. A respectable president. I've studied the main component of the budget bill, a bill that will support the ongoing and sustainable state of state and contribute to the balance and well-being. I'm ordering the bill to go. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u4	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. This bill reflects what appeared in our main spring program. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Ministers, especially in school. A greater proportion of the budgetary committees suggested a proposal or request to be considered, especially in high school, to keep the funds that would have actually gone out of the system but should have stayed inside because of shortness. I'd like to ask the minister why they didn't do that. According to my calculations and the picture on page 20. 334 seems to be about 56 million in all high school in the country where they have actually entered their basic business in addition to what has not already been paid and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. Thus, contributions to high school increase about 500 million from the budgets of the current year. Each student's donation is also increasing. So I believe these recommendations were followed by the Board of Shepherds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u6	Madam President. It wasn't much. In fact, it is worth recognizable that this is shown in this book. It's a cash bed. It's very high up like that. It's a cash bed. In high school it's 686 million. There is a box next to it that says: hold. That's 605 million. The differences, therefore, remain. He is not the one who should have been if the money should have stayed inside. In fact, it is similar with university degrees, even though it contains a new budget and less maintenance, which can be dropped away from money that was once in the system. I can't agree with the Minister that the funds are inside the system and especially the high school system that was supposed to be there for what was said, unless there's only a change. But more of the legal committee didn't think so. It will be interesting to go through how many suggestions were offered on the part of committees generally received a series of highways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u7	A respectable president. A following note shows that before high school in 2017, we have 30 billion and 298 million for high school. In 2018, according to the budget bill, we have 30 billion and 930 million. That's a considerably higher number, and on the contrary, there's a lot more to it. A senator claims. It's a raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u8	A respectable president. On page 18. 135 is a tablet that compares the budget of 2017 with the bill 2018 and tells us that an interval of about 18 billion. The problem is that there were a number of funding in 2017 budgets that were underestimated and that are not, as far as I know, calculated in the 2017 budget. For example, if you take drugs and medical products, which are updated in your bill 2018, security seekers, and several other teams, the number is even reduced to 11 to 12 billion, which is an increase in the budget of 2017,2018. When we talk only about this growth in expenses, I feel that I need to take into account the correcting that will be done on the budget of 2017 when compared with the 2018 budget; such as that of an assorted bludgeon, as is often on the right side. I'm wondering if any analysis has asked for this difference, on the missing budget of 2017, for this comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u9	Madam President. It's right next to you, isn't it? Senator, there's been a change. A financial committee has been informed of these and of the general members of Congress. This is explained - I don't have the complete pages - what they are. So it is in itself simple to see what has already happened. There have been more income than at the same time, more expenses in certain areas. However, this shows that percentages can sometimes be lipapers. You'll have to know why we're taking percentages. That is why we made our own budget, not the final budget, which will be approved later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u10	A respectable president. It is difficult to talk about this alleged expansion sooner than we can see the final outcome of 2017. I expect that since the 2018 budget has been reimbursed, to take into account these terms, which are usually ablaze, from now on, it will be easier to compare the bills from year to year where there should not be a financial bill to the same. On page 18. An interesting statement is as follows: the loss of several income institutions in recent years also makes it a major burden on key taxes, such as credit taxes, income taxes on individuals, and insurance bills. This means that as the economy slows down, the income takes a much larger dip than the expenses, with the consequences for the recovery to the worse, and the collection of debt begins again. I wondered why the government does not accept its own advice in this financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u11	Madam President. I thank you again. A senator for his tip. Surely we will take a great deal of notice, and we know that we have been unable to do anything, for it will come to a time when it will not be as good as it has been. Therefore, we have resolved to take advantage of conditions in the economy in order to try to pay off debt. We see that what helped us much in the fall in 2008 was the visible view of the government of those days to have paid off debts. This was done progressively for years. That is why we may have managed to get out of that collapse as fast as we can. There we show responsibility and surely listen to our own words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister. It is clear that the minister became somewhat talk about the stability of the gang and that it was important to land our economy quietly, that we had to watch out for this. Now the government has decided to postpone the increase in cost taxation during the 2019 trip to the 2019 season. As a result, one of 7, 8 billion people will be, if I remember correctly. Instead, it appears that tax returns to less than 4 billion, a significant increase in fuel costs, alcohol costs, and such costs, which, of course, go directly into the index, raise prices, etc. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether the procedure to raise these taxes in particular is to strike a hearing in order to take the money away from the people so that there's not too much money to buy, that the ideologies are to ensure maximum stability. There was talk of a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u13	Madam President. I know why. A senator agrees with me that it is of course very important that we be able to maintain the success that has been achieved. There's no disagreement about that. Regarding this particular expenditure, I view it as our primary response to climate change. We're trying to achieve as soon as possible our objective that this will be a clean national energy source for the main energy supply in vehicles. I hope it will also be in other transports, e.g. in ships in the near future. This is a fast development, and we're trying to speed it up. It's more than a income raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u14	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. They do not fully explain the importance of stability. In fact, financial advisers were particularly critical of the planned reduction in the value tax, which is to take place on January 1, 2018, where there will be a compromise of 10, 15 billion, if I recall correctly, of 1.5%. Then I have to ask you again: How does it fit to maintain stability in the pressure environment if you raise spells in the public this year and then give out three times more relaxes with a reduction in the value of a tax at the beginning of 2018? Is there no logic, is there no context in the way a person is going to maintain this stability? In this year or in 2018, have people wondered where these significant tax increases occurred? This will increase the level of insured debt. [[The president calls.]] Of course, these curses vary greatly, depending on the long - distance driving process - not everyone can buy the dice at 10 million and drive 400 miles [400 km] on electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u15	Thank you. A senator for his answers again. Yes, there is, indeed, a logical context in this. That's where the equation forgets that it is at the same time an indiscretion to buy on both two-and-a-half cars. They're building a battery of electrical cars. We all know that this technology is more expensive now than it will be in the future, and the cars are not as long as they hopefully will be in the future, except for occasional automobiles. But we're out there trying to get the first step into a clean future where we have clean domestic energy instead of foreign contaminated energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u16	Madam President. This is a sort of chat with the author. Could be upstairs in a bed. And then you would think that the author could answer more about the content than readers who are actually just trying to figure it out. I admit, I've come a long way from understanding all the precise numbers, but the big context may be becoming clearer. I'd like the previous enemy to request a minister's answer. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir: how much of the increase as high as possible. The secretary of finance came in, is there a change in salary and prices? And also: Is he denying that the policy established by the former government was changed that the money saved by the shortening of high school should remain inside the system? Is he protesting?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u17	Madam President. I've answered that question a lot before. It is good to answer that question with a different view of spending. One way is to place the student in the foreground, the student involved, and the importance of the student's expenses, as well as support. However, there is some system that should be maintained away from the number of years in high school, away from the way it works. I represent the students. I want to put them in foreground. Some others may be thinking about the system. But it's just not what's important. We're supposed to take care of the students, take care of the patients, take care of the citizens. That's what's best for us. Don't benefit from the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u18	Madam President. V.E.G. There was even more to the answer from a minister. He may be more inclined to work as an insurance expert and to talk in terms of numbers than to go on some philosophical flights. But since we're there and we're at the highest. Minister and chief. The prime minister spoke very extensively and inspired about the future and how we should meet it - though at the height. In fact, a minister of finance himself answered that he did not know what it would be like. We don't know. We know that there will be great changes. Does the minister of this ambitious set of academics to expect small changes and frauds in high school, too little money in college, and we're still kind of close to the North, that's being cut down in research and science, to be the answer to the future we know we're facing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u19	Madam President. The answer is yes. We're supposed to be very ambitious in education. Education, education, education are the future. It's what matters. That is how Tony Blair spoke in his day, and that is how the chairman of the United States here speaks in a speech chair. That's what I can say. How important it is who we are to educate! We are not trying to educate some house or facility. We're education individuals. The fact is, expenses, contributions to each student, whether we attend university or high school, are increasing with this financial bill. I'm happy about that. This is in accordance with government policy, in accordance with the policy that education is the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u20	Madam President. It was an interesting discussion at the highest. Minister. It's safe to say. Students are not houses. Education is not for house - to - house support but for students. I completely agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u21	... in health care at the Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u22	I now come out of that system, was there before I arrived at the council. I know it all right. But I thought it was the best. Rather, a minister may turn his back on the question in answer. Madam President. ▪ Humans make mistakes, and greed will cause people to make bad decisions. It's gonna happen again. That's what I said. Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson. This is the minister who found himself possessing property in the tax industry, a minister who has been able to undermine the use of alcohol and the public system by 100 billion since 2013 and who is involved in personal prostitution. We have a financial minister who talks down the crown and doesn't like money, just cards. We are to be reminded that the State is to serve and is not like any other business. Sadly, though, I feel that this is the case with both financial ministers and others in this hall. The last few days, the Ministers of this government have been trying to tell the Americans how much money they now put into the system. They say they're living up to the big promises made before elections. Is that so? At first glance and reading the budget bill, it does not seem to be that way. It should come as no surprise to anyone that there is a legal arrangement in these matters, whether you look at health, education, culture, transportation, law enforcement or family. You see, at a meeting of financial ministers with a financial committee, most of the funds added to this fiscal bill are due to collective agreements and changes in prices. In all too many areas, there is very little use of new money to strengthen the government business. This is not the case, however, when it comes to personal exercise, such as in the growing health - care program and in spite of the surgeon's warnings that it weakens the government. But what did they call for the last election? It was urgent that as early as the national industry, it was time to spit heavily into and strengthen the foundation of the public ministry. Health issues, and especially mental health matters, were and are focused on them. 60 million are to be put here to carry out a mental - health program. There's also 200 million health care providers, but I'm assuming that only a fraction of that money goes to psychological and teamwork. I'm sorry, but it's extremely thin thirteenth, and it's not just one of them because there was an interview in the Morning TV on these matters where they say there is far too little in the years to come. Therefore, the health minister must show us in black and white where and how this billion is and must be found, which he says should be joined. Hospitals are also not good for these. In terms of subsidies and prices, there is very little money in the business, but there is loyal support to the private business. This government should not surprise many. What a pleasure it is to be built at the Land Hospital, at last! Yet, it is now that people do not wait for that building to be sick. Therefore, the foundation of these strains needs to be strengthened. That's not done on this budget bill. No more than the problem facing aging homes. A minister may be asked whether or not the right to try to correct the situation of the rural society, which is repeatedly paid by the government's means of operation. It would be good to know. A respectable president. What about the 300 thousand U.S.man to the poor or older citizens who need to rely on the public system? You see, it's just part of an individual who gets there. They can't work much now, because the revenue target is quiet and should take years to raise it. When is it time to correct if not now where continuous economic growth was 7.2% last year, more than in any other OECD state? What can we expect when the prime minister says that raising the wages of this group to 300 thousand is a marvelous achievement? No, a respectable president. The government is maintaining poverty through its actions in this bill to a large percentage of this group. The government's actions also affect young children who are getting lower and lower child - growth improvements, although it has rarely been as difficult to cover their heads. As real prices have increased, the cost of growth is reduced by 30%. However, as real - estate prices increase, this does not mean that these same young families have more money between their hands. The only positive light for young family members is a progressive birthworm. However, it must also be remembered that there is a need to bridge the gap between nursery school and birthday vacations. It hasn't been done. We must also discuss the urgent housing issues. The social and equal minister boasts much that there are additional funds available to this team. But not what? Wasn't the government going to do what was written in the last resort? Better now. This does not change the fact that it is not enough to support the estimated number of people to be built. So there will still be a lack of housing. I can't let it pass for me to discuss the taxes that are proposed here. Most of all, I'm going to go against green taxes, but a great rise in oil and gasoline, which is put here, especially in the scattered areas where people have to go a long way and other options may not be suitable. We've got a handmade road all over the country. Too little money is spent on transportation. Its minister's ideas are taking roadtoll, which will cause them to be added to these increases. We who live in the rural area have to go to various lengths of service. So it can be said that this is a burdensome national tax. I have to ask the minister if he thought of some kind of countermeasures and then who. Because this is not only burdensome for the general population but also for businesses, for farmers who run most of their devices on oil. What about the already intertwined tourism? This must also affect the distribution of tourists. Don't you need to examine these influences? I'd also like to ask the secretary if he had the effects on the home debt. Increase in gasoline, oil, and alcohol costs, as we know, directly affects it. We also want to link this salary. According to the FIB, people have to make more than one dollar a year. We are also talking about the people who are asked to be grateful for $20, since they would be relatively small. Isn't this an example of us putting in one pocket and then taking out the others? Climate is important to all of us. The future will need to be a energy exchange program. Action program must be implemented. There is no way to launch an osmos action here and where its purpose is not met. The money should not undergo climate surgery, except as mentioned above. All we're suggesting is that the extra powered cars will turn out to be three years old. Of course, not all of us buy electric cars on one board. We need to find some counter measures. I'd like to hear from a minister what to do with them. Perhaps it is that the government's members make sure this is not done. In any case, the head of the Economic and Business Committee has declared that changes are necessary in this particular matter. The prime minister waslittled the development of the taxpayer in his policy speech yesterday. It is unmistakably that as the tax burden of low income and intermediate groups increased for crash, the tax burden of the highest income groups was dropped. There, there the effects of increased capital gains, which were much less tax than the payoffs. But the minister just wants to talk about extra provisions. It does not alter this fact. Although the purchase has increased, their low paying rate has also increased. This fiscal bill is a destabilizing support for the welfare system that consumes them the small benefits of collective agreements. He also seems to have forgotten the study just a year ago that for the first time since industrialization, young people have been worse off than their predecessors. I'm sorry, but the right politician is always looking for hers. The people who have been better in society are more likely to benefit from that course. But this should not surprise anyone. I'd also like to mention only the school system that doesn't leave these laws well. A respectable president. I'll probably have to come back because I have a considerable share of my speech, but I have to stop for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u23	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of the holding, both in his opposition to the highest. Secretary of finance, as well as in his speech. I wanted to bring this to my attention only on the laws. It's here in every language field of access. If I looked, like. For more information, see page 7 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 222, we have a requirement of 153 million. Why do we have a requirement for research, innovation, and fields of knowledge? And why do we have a prior requirement? Here we are simply deciding how much funds every agency, cause field, and topic group can afford. So it is none of our business, since we eventually decide how much money to go to each other. It is very strange to have some button that automatically flips down the amount and really has no meaning when we decide the final amount. So I wanted to have a conversation with you. A senator only about this requirement, which is made automatically and that, as with research, is it ridiculous that it should take place, and so on, how should we be doing - should we not change this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u24	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is quite safe to say that very widely, as I came into my speech, it is this device that actually eats up what is spoken of as a paybed. I don't want to belittle how many agencies can do better, and it can be good to have some kind of access to it and try to deal with it, but when we're talking about budgeting business for many years, as in the medical sector, as in the educational sector, as in transport, it makes it strange for you to think that holding things is very much too little to be done on these costly projects. This, of course, is very specific what the senator points to regarding research, innovation, and fields of knowledge. It is very special that there is a reduction in the accompanying box between the 2017s and the next year, about nearly 200 million. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister gave this speech yesterday and spoke of the vision, what would be taking over, and if some particular education or not was needed, but you ask yourself, " Is this business being cut down? ' It's something special. But we will consider this in a better financial capacity. This bill was supposed to be more read than before, and there's something going on, I have to say, but not enough. We are still confronted with searching, and numbers do not seem to match text and tablets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u25	A respectable president. It's good to explain. It's this spontaneous stethic that I'm criticizing. Of course, we have a specific requirement, which is then informed with restraint, so that we take the discussion about whether this applies to each subject and to each subject's specific subject. But this spontaneous mask makes it all at once that tests will actually be cut down on the amount expected. Self-destruction, why on earth? Also, I'd like to add my query, my answer to earlier, regarding this comment in the budget bill that increases the non-employment institutions, it's just a raise of the currently existing ones, and we know that some people have been killed in the past, whether it's really necessary to react to the financial bill. This must mean that before something happens, we'll lose our income when we slow down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u26	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course it's so that we left greens have talked about it, and that's why, as I said before, I'm not going to talk against green taxes or anything like that. Also, I'm not going to speak against taking up a fortune tax here, for example. We have offered such suggestions, e.g. on resource costs. It's quite clear that we're here to leak out perhaps in advance income, i.e. As expected e.g. around the tourism and other activities, which are now being taken to some extent to meet them in other places. Since then, the private consumption has grown, and so has the potential hole not to be 9 billion, as it might have been. I think we're supposed to increase the taxpayers. I think that's a good idea. There is a table in many parts of the community, especially for those who have a better standing, as we have discussed many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech she gives here, especially because of her knowledge of the budget and the financial bill because of her session on a budget board. What I'm thinking about reading a budget bill, this bill like other bills we've been discussing before, may be the bus of the bill and the scale of the public. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator who criticizes arrangements, that there's not enough there, and not enough here. Has a what? A senator wondered where we could pick up our expenses and try to save our money in the government business and try to take the steps there to achieve more efficient government management?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u28	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've said it before in this child that I don't really think it's the State's budget if we look at it as a year from year to year. I think we need to increase our consumption, not reduce it, as it has been in the past many years under the control of the Independence Party. So I don't agree with it at any time. A senator says that there is a particular problem. You can always do better in any business, I think we can agree on that. Of course, I don't have any more insight into it than I do. A senator, he may even have better insight than I do in certain institutions or such, we have, of course, received them to us, and we need to respond to what they say. Nor am I saying that there should be a Yes to all that is requested, not at all. But when we talk about our basic services, our health, our education, our transportation, so I'll just mention this, we'll have to improve there. We have to do better that because for many years too little to play. That's why I feel sad to look at it, and I say it when it's being talked about and made up of 44 billion years. leftovers that I'm not gonna belittle, it's good to have some leftovers. But can we really talk about change when we have an unfashioned wood? Can we really talk about change when we have ruined roads? So, then, we're just pushing something into the future that we're not working on right now? You can talk about rest when people burn up in health care, teaching, etc. Because it's not done well enough? I don't think so. No doubt we need and can look at certain organizations. But I think we need to give more attention to this basic service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u29	A respectable president. I thank the senator for her reply that I allow myself to interpret in this way: No, it is not a special need to negotiate in any way with public expenses. Another thing that comes to my mind after the senator's talk is that working on a spring financial program. A senator offers suggestions for significant tax increases. I noticed in her speech that when she criticized the government's tax promotion proposal, she surprised me somewhat on the proposal she had made in the spring months where she gave suggestions on significant tax increases, up to 1 million at each home during the time of a financial program, which is not suitable for these taxes. Whatever priorities may be in promotions of taxes. A senator can support himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u30	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I've said it here, and I haven't been lying about it, that I'm not going to belittle collecting green taxes, not at all. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do that that we're not talking about taxes that work on everybody alike, we want the income tax system to be equal. This has not happened in the history of this government, and this is primarily a penalty in the country. I don't feel that it's based, and I can't say that it's done without any counter measures being made. Besides, this is being thrown out here in the tasmos in the name of it being green, in the name of meeting climate goals. There are no plans for this government on that matter. This also needs to be taken in that context. About the cost weight of this bill -- it's not right. A senator not to look or clean - I talked primarily about basic services. It's important to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u31	Madam President. Hv. A senator pointed to me specific questions and indications that are certainly needed, and I know that they will be discussed in the treatment of the council on the budget bill. There is a problem. For example, a senator counter measures. It is true that taxes on consumption, whether in terms of value taxation, will reduce the consumption rate or the specific taxes on fuel, carbon costs, will only affect those using it. It's the right thing to say, and I know that it will be taken care of at the Senate Committee, and there I expect to be watched to build up more quickly than ever so that cars will be more useful in the country, electric cars, and minivans. But I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament: What counter measures do we take? A senator in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u32	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the question. I think we need to examine the cultural effects of the tax, as I've come in the past. Building fast - loading stations everywhere is not enough. We must not forget that this does not happen, so we replace the truck fleet like that, and we don't do it in rural areas. There's a lot of tools and tools that we can't trade anything like that. It all takes time, so plans have to be made. That's why I call for a government action plan on these matters. In itself, I have not put into thought which counter measures were best, but it is likely that it would be different from mine to suggest that it be handled in terms of sums, how this applies to specific settlements, etc. Are we going to do this in the same procedure? One for all of them and all that? There's something I can't say here and now, I admit to it, but I can see in my hand that this would be very disturbing in many places. We rurals are attending services in many places, much to the south of Reykjavík. We have a long road to go, and often it's not good, so I think there's something to be done. The minister will have to figure out how it might be best, and to that end, he will have potential good people elsewhere trying to figure it out. Farmers can also be summoned, they can be called to collaborate groups, i.e. A local community member asked: "What would you think this would be? Of course, there are those who deal with this day in the field daily, so I think it would be better than one general to give some examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u33	Madam President. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. In fact, I think that when the budget bill has been submitted, this joint work is being done by all of us members of the Parliament. It's out of the hands of the Ministry to the council now. I can personally mention things that would help in various parts of the country, e.g. if we identified a flight as a public transport. I think it would be a big step in the opposite direction. The public transport in general is energy-friendly, so I answer my question for the senators. Hv. One senator said: "You can always do better in any business. Reservation is actually required. Who would be the normal conservative, according to the opinion of him? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u34	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I agree with him, although the flight is not exactly environmental, it is, of course, the only connection that is very far off. Money, however, is not to be expected as a matter of concern to meet that requirement. There's been groups and they're done. There's another group still running. We're always starting some group of work to produce suggestions, but then new ones have to be appointed because there's a new government or something to make some other results. That my mind should have been doing this a long time ago, i.e. Meet the international flight as a public transportation. The public transportation in the scattered areas is of no value to us for our daily activities. Minister knows that as well as I do. Any restraint, of course, should be different. That's what they did right after the crash. It was sweet, for example. These delicate organizations were my own, but some others had to be put on trial. That's what I think we need to look at every time, i.e. whether our basic services are my maintenance, it doesn't work evenly over everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u35	A respectable president. We are now working by the laws on public finances and on the first fiscal bill based on both financial and financial agendas that can be accepted and established by the government and its coverage at the General Assembly. It must be remembered, however, that the circumstances of financial and financial policies were somewhat unusual. About six months later, the government received a short period of time to put its mark on policy and plan. Both financial and financial policies served as a sign, as was shown during discussions at the General Assembly around them. The financial bill, on the other hand, is not new. The government got all the time that it could be taken to make it happen. The difference between these budgets and the previous budget is that this is the first financial bill based on financial policy and financial schemes that all the way through the system, received financial reviews, and the like. But as a reminder, since it's all new, the financial policy is dealing with the development of property and owes the entire public to at least Five years old. The budget is to deal with economic development, set the goals for development, pay and owe, and ultimately set policies for the state's budget. Both financial and financial policies should follow baseline values on sustainability, security, stability - which is really the ability to adapt to changing situations in my opinion - firm and then transparent. As noted at the World Council on Economic Policy and Budget Plans, there were several offenders. In particular, serious statements due to lack of transparency were made. The financial bill's doing a little better. In part, because there's only more experience with budgetary and its contents. However, several major changes have been made that need to be taken into account in making budgets. First of all, there's no supposed to be a financial bill. However, one of these should be submitted in October by the Government Constitution. It is written simply in the last government that, despite knowing better, underestimated various depositers. However, the 2018 financial bill seems to have been a success in financing the budgets that have been reputed in recent years. They now gain reality correction in the budget bill rather than always being paid for insurrections when it turns out that the cost was wrong again. It contains the highest topic range of drugs and medical products, which are actually updated by 1.8 billion dollars. and the matters of those who were free of charge; they were deliberately subtorned. It's good, because of the transparency, that it's updated. Now it will be easier to compare the figures between the budgets before making a financial account. There is no need to pool expenses by means of financial contributions, financial contributions, and even the final financial laws to find out what a cost is. This reality correction explains a good part of the budget change between budget 2017 and budget 2018, which is said to be over 18 billion. After these corrections have been taken into account, there is an increase in the cost of 11◯12 billion. Other important supplementes are the Minister's reports. Official financial laws include monthly, quarterly, annual, and three - year reports. In fact, the quarters of these reports are two. All of these reports are to help us all, not just members of the council, to keep track of the implementation of budgets and the rightness of future policy. The first report to be considered is the monthly report on Part A of the State Fund, published by the State's Budget. Very nice report. The state's income and payment can be reviewed from month to month. The next report is part A quarter report. She doesn't exist. The next thing we'll find to be the report is a memo received by a financial committee. Whatever the case, the sending of a legal committee is not a ◯ publishing report, as the law on public financial matters states. The memo does not even contain everything to be included in that report. I don't even have a presentation on this memo, I just know that it just came in and I may have entered the Senate filing system. In addition, each minister is permitted to provide interimportant grants and contributions for projects to be outlined in the financial context. It contains information on commitments and negotiations, not on the basis of grantings and contributions. It's missing. Shame, shame. At a quarterly time, a minister should provide a report comparing the progress of public funds to the aims of a financial programme. I haven't had a report like that. I can't find her when I'm looking. I'm told by the people who know that there is no such thing. Shame, shame again. Finally, there are two reports that have not yet arrived. On the one hand, it is a report to be published every three years for at least looking ahead and predicting the development of various aspects of society to the next decades. However, it is a year report by a minister that should account for the results of spendings in litigation and litigation groups and to compare it with financial resources. It is specifically noted that the presentation of the annual report should be clear and clear. The budget may meet some of the requirements of the annual report, but it is not clear or clear to look on the bill; nor is it clear and clear that there is no particular report on this as to be. When people start looking for this report, they are not the first to look for a financial bill. The message I get is that it should be done next year. I have no idea when the future report will be ready, but I have to make comments to the inordinate lack of ambition, to postpone these reports. First, there is no excuse for postponing the annual report. That's all that tells you that the future report would be very helpful in making financial policy, financial plans, and funding, even if it was published only in small form in the first year. You could make a new and better one in a year. That's at least every three years this is to be published. But I know people have worked very hard to get all of this to us and appreciate the product. But I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't point out what was missing. That message does not necessarily consult and establish. It is rather a message for us senators to make sure that the work we should do is done according to our laws. Let's get a little political now. We will hear a familiar phrase and slogans, as is usually the case in a discussion about the budget. It is easy to resort to phrases and slogans. People feel good when they hear what they know. Or maybe ill, depending on the incident. But there's really no one closer to what's going on. The reality from my point of view is more tragic than familiar phrases. During discussions about financial policy, it became clear that the government's goal was to pay off debt. Period. Moreover, during financial discussions, no one believed in the amount set out and thought that they would be fixed in the budget bill, similar to what was done in 2017. It wasn't. It is respectable, and it is an essential part of the new budget to maintain the firmness of plans and policy. But this is just one thing: debt will be paid and nothing else will be paid. When I say anything else, it's not very accurate. I'm having a political close-up. What I mean is that a small amount of money is thrown into the affairs of the elderly, perhaps understandable, it is a powerful voter group who has much good to contribute, and their cause is justified. But the amount thrown into the pack is a drop in the ocean, unfortunately. There is no other way to say that those who have, by true means, been making atonement. They're paying away unfashionable criticism. If there were any serious issues involved in solving the problems in this field, there would be something in the Government Constitution. It's nothing. To be honest, I find, of course, one subject where a financial bill and a Senate book shows some kind of policy and that is involved in the case of desperate and disabled people. It comes, for example. At last, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments of Disappointments and NAPA Here you can say: at last. But not much more. Hooray for finally doing what everybody would have done, too, at least Just as well. It was supposed to be a long time ago. It's a formal vow that this supplement is finally coming into the budget I'm going to think that it looks like with the bill is paying off debt and nothing else. No structure, just scratching in the tray. A little atonement. The new treatment core of the Land Hospital is not structured, it is vital repair after the collapse. Piratar and I say we have to build up or, as a financial committee pointed out in their opinion; we have to make a financial analysis of the projects that wait to make decisions about priorities. Paying off debts and saving interest costs is a fine price. Other projects, however, may result in even greater benefits than the financial cost. We just don't know what the diagnosis exists, but there seems to be an obvious alternative for the health system. Pirates and I believe that the cost of stalling the necessary structure may be higher than the profit of savings due to less interest costs. Who knows, in all likelihood, we need to borrow from the building blocks. What, then, was the result of the policy of paying off debts at all times? The pyramids prepared a way for elections to increase government income by obtaining fair payment for the use of common resources and using them to build up, e.g. in the health system. So it is very interesting to see tips in the budget bill that we do not have enough tax collectors. And it is remarkable that, despite the government's saying that the taxes are not broad enough, she will not do anything to improve them and reduce the pressure on the continental taxes, which would be possible to reduce them. That would be, for example. can put on credit with a legalised personality discount of 100 million. But the course is: Pay off debt, nothing more. Welcome to the 1st. budget 2018, hair dyeing where nothing is made to look like something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u36	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As expected, he had a bit of a systematic discussion first, he didn't betray you about it. I just want to wonder with him that a lot of the budget is here, at least as much as I experience them, i.e. The addition, as mentioned, is a major factor in the aging of the people who accidentally missed an increase in the number of inmates known to be known, at least A program from the National Institute of Iceland and other information we received into the committee that told us, and out of ignorance of the changed social security laws, was also discussed in a Senate Hall that there were doubts about their financial resources. Now, the budget bill under Congress is not due until October, and I would like to think about it with the senator how he feels about it. Shouldn't the big lines be there now? This is the budget bill. In fact, we are not supposed to have financial contributions unless there is something wrong in the community under the new laws on public finances. It makes me feel like we're going to take back a bill where the more part was meant and nothing is especially new and unexpected. But mainly this: Do you think there's anything more we can expect, I just forgot to ask the minister about it earlier, which causes the bill not to appear until October? Why on earth? Shouldn't it have been submitted now with the budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u37	A respectable president. That's a very interesting question. I answered the table on page 5. 135. It's not easy for the paper in the pages here to pick out where the increase comes from. This costume, which we have under the laws on public finances, is a bit odd. The 2017 financial work came, for example. The local Ministry of State explained a number of scenarios in the pursuit of pleasure and cost that were far beyond what was then presented and really what the government stated. At the same time, new alien laws have been established that gave the government certain authority to carry out that lawsuit or project more quickly. You wonder: All right, they're offering a much lower amount than the local Ministry says the stage photos could end, so it must be that they intend to use these changes in the law to work more effectively. But on the day, one month after a month, we get warnings that the funds are being advanced. We are always asking, "Why aren't we doing anything? " What are you gonna do about it? The answers we're getting are gonna be getting us some extra cash. But that is not to be done. It's only to do so if the sky and the sea are destroyed or something like it. I can't figure out what we're gonna do with the budget bill. What I see positive about it in the 2018 bill is that these traditional joints seem to have been shut down, so I'm optimistic about the rest, but 2017 is still a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u38	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm just gonna grab the ball where it ended. I'm not so sure that this street has been shut down. It is true that some institutions have gone ahead, and here Iceland's Medical Insurance has been referred to in this context, they've gone a lot ahead, and they've always been replaced by budgets. You started to think and think about whether it's just so that the cost is underestimated because it's known that there's no improvement in the cost. That, of course, is unacceptable. Hv. The chairman of the Committee asked me where I could clean up, which is, for example. you can think about it. Then, of course, I'm not talking about the specialised S-drugs, which is where we've had to reduce the number of new medications. Now it should be a good thing to do it, but I have, for example. Whether we can expect to be able to import some new medication or if it is just being dealt with. Whether this is to grow indefinitely or not is always a matter of taking sides, but that view is never taken. Meanwhile, we're stuck with nothing changing. I'm worried we still can't put it together. Above all, this is what I talked about earlier and asked the senator about and had a word with him about it, i.e. I think it's strange, and I'm thinking that there might be something more than these big teams that should just try to put on the budget bill. I think we're talking about a dozen billion, not just a few.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u39	A respectable president. Yes, it is a question that is interesting to think about, just this: The financial bill is presented so late despite the fact that we have known about these weaknesses for quite a long time. It's strange that it's not ready. I brought this table on page 18. 135 mainly to draw attention to this so - called budget of 18 billion and to the fact that this is not a fair comparison. Yes, these obvious holes are stopped, and you hope that they will remain, but it may well be the same as before. However, these differences between medicines and medical products are being developed, e.g. not done before, at least in the same amount, so hope is that it will be very easy to use the reserve to cover the space to be done instead of taking it into the budget. It's an interesting method of why the budget bill is so late, and it will be interesting to see the explanation in terms of what it takes to bring up a budget bill under official financial legislation. I'm just looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. Toward the end, he mentioned Pirata's proposal for income. I appreciate it when men break up the talks and complain not only that they lack expenses here and there but that they place ideas, suggestions in the discussion. He mentioned a natural object to the use of the resources. Our reality varies from one to the other at the General Assembly, and our origins vary. We respect it. My reality is this, huh? Senator: In the communities I represent, people are now looking in front of a recession and the compression of marine export companies, including For hunting costs and, of course, for other things too. But the driving force of that compression, and that companies are now retreating from the settlements and that people lose jobs, is an undisputed currency we've been calling fishing cover fees. Then I'd like to pray. A senator answering people at Snæfellsnes, Aklin, and many parts of the country for me and sharing in that vision how this natural share in resource use can appear to these people when the reality today is the way I have described here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u41	A respectable president. It has been made clear that the problem with hunting costs is how late they are collected and not at present. I want to draw attention to it first. The head of the budget committee mentioned, that according to a financial plan, 10.2 billion collections of fishing fees in the project for increased reconciliation on the provision of the joint resources of the ocean are expected. The budget bill, based on a financial program, is expected to make up 10.2 billion. It's just a financial plan. A project to collect on fishing fees or some kind of fees from the joint resources of the ocean is based on the agreement referred to in financial programmes. It's something we're looking at as a democracies. I look forward to seeing the progress of the committee who will work on this reconciliation. I find it very interesting that these 10.2 billion will be expected to earn before the treatment of reconciliation has been completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u42	A respectable president. I thank the senator for that answer. But he didn't come through with what I asked him to do, i.e. to answer the questions in these communities about how ideas of significant revenues of common resources should appear to people. I know the money in the financial program, and I know the amount of money in the budget bill. We can fully debate the fact that the collection system is defective, and the demand for good years in the fishing industry is now being collected when the crisis is severe. But I didn't hear the answer I was after. There is something else I would like to pray for. A senator for his seat. A legal committee where he has put his hand to a plow. I'd like to ask him to consider his expenses and expenses. I also ask, as I have asked other legal committees, " Where would the senator expect us to set up and revise expenses and reduce them? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u43	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll take it from the people at Snæfellssi, the West, and Reykjavík, as well as others. It simply involves our policy of making money because the use of common resources does not distribute in such few hands. That's a very simple, very obvious answer. This is what we've seen in recent years, that there are few common resources making money. It's just about distributing them fair to those who have the right to it, to the community. If people can sign it, then they must agree that we must work in that direction. It's the tax scale. It's a word that's being used here. But I'm not sure it's the right thing to use. Hv. The chairman of the budget board needs to first convince me that there is some financial weight. I haven't seen it. What I see in these talks is that the proportion of government expenses has been reduced compared to GDP. I need to take a closer look. If it's gone down, there's no charge at all, so I'm just going to point it back to the lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u44	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I want to direct one inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of finance. Now that we are initiating a new environment, the discussion of budgets may be a little different than we have seen many times before. The second year of financial initiatives, as well as one part of a budget board, is to receive the so-called surveillance reports from the council, from professionals in which they evaluate how to meet the budget, the goals the Ministry has set for themselves. I would have considered it very desirable that these reports would have been available in June or in summer, so it could be discussed now when we're talking about a budget bill for the next year to evaluate the handling of the 2017 budget. Benefit the financial resources the Parliament provided for those objectives, etc.? I think it matters because we're introducing new things. This large document on budget management is covered in some of the financial, financial, and so forth. I didn't see any mention of a surveillance role or the role of a Based agency that needs to assess the cultural impact on the financial agenda, because now there's an expansion of funds, and then new questions, new dimensions may arise. Of course, the carbon charge is one of the things I come in a little better after. In terms of the budget, it's impossible to begin with. Then we need to start in 2017, an unusual year of expenses. All of you, fine senators, remember that with the release of a budget bill in December 2016 under unconventional circumstances, a large amount of expenses came to be due to 2017. Nevertheless, because of such an increase in income, some 25 billion are now being seen on page 30. 96, although expenses have even increased beyond what the budget offered. Regarding 2018, I believe that further increases in income can be expected and the 44 billion leftovers mentioned here could increase, including Because of profits and monopolies. In that light, it is quite remarkable to watch an increase in taxes of 4 billion, suggested by the government on consumer taxes, i.e. The fuel costs, expenses, car expenses, and miles. This is a cover-up of 2.2% on the entire line. I can totally understand that it is needed, and when inflation is low, it doesn't matter. On the other hand, if a person wants to break the cycle of security, there are times when the government must go first. We did that during the last term when we did not rise, that was to break the cycle of spontaneous rise, not thinking, " How do these curses put on things? ' That's what I think matters because there's a change of spells on the individual. The big picture is that things are going well here, economics are going well, that is even more balanced now than in spring when we were discussing these matters because we've been walking around and doing things like that. That is why I feel that it is odd and that I need more support for further appeals in 2018, i.e. increase taxes to 4 billion. In addition to the prices, it is likely to meet that man has delayed an increase in the value tax, which is then a loss of 9 billion, but at the same time, people in 2019 will want to lower the value tax from 24% to 22.5%, in the same period as we are still in, that is, about 15 trial16 billion. I don't think there's anything in these things or with the debate about maintaining stability and becoming the economy of reason. Speaking of balance and vision; wanting people to watch how we're going to make sure that society has continued to have power beyond that time, it is very obvious to me that insurance costs need to be reduced. 90% of companies in the country are mono-cretary and smaller companies with fewer than ten employees or 94% companies with ten or less employees. These companies suffer a high insurance bill; these companies are future growths. They need to grow. That's why I would have wanted to see in the context of those big words, balance, and vision, that the government had looked to the way she was going to cut insurance charges against these agents. Then let us take on the expenses that are the most interesting consideration. Despite the success and increase of everything, health - care systems still have that, after the concrete has been removed and the raise in pay may be up to 30 million in the hospital. I said 30 million, not 30 billion or 3. There is a shortage of nursing homes, and more is needed. Of course, we also need to tackle how these roofs on different fees fit, depending on whether they are due due, due to due fees, and support fees. The dental cures of the elderly were all talking about one or two years ago that one, two, and three need to be increased. There is nowhere to see, a missing billion people who could meet the worst and, frankly, their dental health is not sufficiently good. At the same time, the cost of health insurance increases by 7 billion, if I remember correctly. In other words, the policy of not intervening, inaction, inactionism, is to move money into the private sector. It seems that the health minister is failing to create a reference system, where we have some control over how the private sector will take over, how the experts deal with us, and it costs us in the public health system. When it comes to education, there have been some questions: What do you do for a living, candidates? Yes, in the financial program that we proposed in cooperation with the Independence Party, the benefits of shorting the school to about 400 million would be to go to high school. The majority of the legal committees pointed to the same thing as they asked for it to be done. It doesn't look like it's going to work. The financial program of a new government was to take this money and put it in the state. It's done. The university still needs money. It's not going far enough. If we look at Science and Technology and innovation, there's no plan for continuing development. There's no ambition. Yet, there are people talking about the fourth industrial revolution and how we are going to expand the educational system's ability to cope with the huge changes that lie ahead of us. V.E.G. The minister of finance earlier said that there was not to be as much cost as we have seen in the last two years. Naturally, they've been very heavy. He was actually proclaiming the status quot. This will not become a new financial program in February of the next year. Take transportation, where there is a very strange situation. We advanceers strongly believe that we're changing energy, we go over to renewable energy sources on cars, electric cars, minivans, and renewables of all kinds, but we can't start taxing everything into killings without building incentives. This is where we asked the highest level. Secretary of finance earlier: What other means and methods do we have? He himself noted that flying public transport could be a good thing. Yeah, that's very good. Another way to create this, there are still ideas to add to the spending on those ups of all who need their jobs, where they set out to drive a longer road, and as a result, a higher percentage of their expenses in cars and fuel, is to pick up tax appeals for driving and from work. It's a suggestion that we candidates have made for about five, six years. But there is no sign of it. In other words, there is no motivation to follow the way we all agree to be reasonable, but somehow taxing without identifying how that taxation affects the people in the country. Just a little bit of a little bit of respect tax for the tourism service. A greater proportion of the legal committee suggested that charges be paid and other factors be checked. This is a report from the Research site of the store that by August there was a 10% lower average spending on each foreign tourist. Tourism has shown that this will be very serious for those in the region that is more distant from the capital and from the South, from the city's land. There's already evidence of that. I think it's the best. The financial secretary has not explained the evidence that the results of more part of the legal committee in this case and how he intends to ensure that the parts of the country that are farther from the capital area, farther from the weight of the tourism can be involved in building up sustainable jobs on this basis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, I can't go any further, but maybe I'd come back here again, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u45	A respectable president. We'll discuss a budget bill here. It is a yearly debate that will take place during the first days of the council. It is normal to have opinions about what is set here and a table and a conflict of views. I just think it's great, that's how it feels. I think it's amazing how the economy here has risen again in an amazingly short period of time. For not many losses, people were dealing with severe difficulties, severe contractions, problems both in public business and in the economy in general. I don't downplay the big task that was then done, but I think it's good for us to remember how unfavourable a short period of time that is. It is a real challenge to bring about the results that have been achieved. That's the main theme of the budget bill, to the highest level. The minister of finance is here offering a discussion of how we will maintain the success that has been achieved. I think it's going to be really the biggest challenge of the months that we're taking on; collective agreements and how we play out the results we've made. Once again, we bring up a budget bill, which incurs significant compensations and raises. In fact, the most important project of this budget and budget for the past year is a large amount of money to be spent on the increase in pay. It is the legitimate criticism that has been observed, and let us not ignore, in itself, that we have not nurtured other fundamental factors while we have been dealing with paying high bargains. As I have previously said in this public assembly, I do not regret any increase in pay to public employees, unless less, but I cannot quite agree that having improved the interest of these employees and making these activities more attractive, it is by nature not to promote the basic services of the State in the way that it can follow. We can have many wishes here in the speaker's office, and we can hear the sound of many of them. The conclusions presented in the budget will naturally be discussed and, just as far as the highest level is concerned. The president said on the Day of Congress is a very strong mark at the International Parliament that the council will change its affairs. We saw in the late autumn that the budget bill, which was then submitted by a government, made significant changes in the conduct of the council under exceptional circumstances. I'm not informed that this bill will react to a similar reversal as it was then, but normally, the bill will have to make some adjustments in the conduct of the council. But it's the main message I want us to figure out that we're dealing with the budget for the next few days and the next few weeks at the Senate Committee's work, and the business related to it, that we're dealing with the fact that there's been a 13% real-time increase in this project over an incredibly short period of time or in two years. And it takes control. We also see the improvement in this budget for the current budget of this year that we have been able to reduce the State's interest rates by 8 to 9 billion. It is the result, for we can start building again, that we can look to the projects we have put behind us. We must never forget the tremendous importance of using these fine years, the good conditions in the economy, to prepare us for the time that will inevitably come. It can't be the same kind of feast year after year as we've had in the past two years at least. The primary task is to reduce the debt of the government, and we have achieved excellent results in this. There are many things I can do as a member of the council in this chair that I miss from this budget bill. It can also be a long list. But I would like to take these facts first, i.e. how effective we have been and how important it is that we keep it! I can list indiscriminateities with this financial bill. I will meet them in my work on a budget board, along with the people working there. We have various aspects of every year that we have to plow through, and I'm just as content with the way we've worked it or used it for our work. For example, I mention how we make payments at banks. Of course, it is not that we can count year after year by year with a much higher payment on government funds, as the trial has been on at least two or three budgets that we've covered in these halls in recent years, of course not. Yet, there is something about the preparation and the work that are not well - looked at. I would also like to watch my own money as the state fund on which banks are and that we start looking at their balance accounts, thus holding matters that we can turn them into goods. I would also want to bring some vision in this financial bill when and how we are going to sell the much of the assets we own or to some extent. The General Assembly is to take the lead in discussing how we will handle that bank sale. Bank sale, by nature, has a very negative reputation. When we discuss it from the chairs of the Generals, when we discuss it, it fills people with distrust. Therefore, it should be that the initiative of the Generalis is to seek a route and settle the steps we should take to that end. I think it is absolutely necessary, however, that we discuss it with great honesty and, at first, how we are going to get rid of these great possessions and thus become even more effective in reducing the debt of the government and preparing for what we hope for, which is a lower economic growth, to the extent that it is not taken deeper in the years. The next few days are full of work to discuss this fine financial bill. There have been some discussions over expenses, and it is very important that the general members of the council come in a public chair and miss their expenses here and there. Yeah, yeah. There is no sound basis for that. Sadly, we are much less inclined to talk about how we can do more in government business, how we can use the more money we take into the Kingdom box. There is a discussion that we should be much more busy with; how we better handle the tax money we collected. Of course, it is to be a project at any given time. We may then lose ourselves in discussions about individual tax increases or changes that we feel are huge in the context of the objects and that make a big difference. I will not belittle that criticism, e.g. Like a critical increase in fuel costs. In many ways, I can totally agree and relate to the generals who speak e.g. for the increase of fuel and its impact on the population in the country. But I'm calling for a discussion about the council that we're just going through it together to see what counter measures we can take. Toward the end of this brief talk, I would like to mention the work we handle in climate and often connect transportation; which is a much larger task than that. I have given them talks and have written about them. We may be able to achieve remarkable results in climate practices much faster than we could see if we were looking at factors that are very close to us. The experience of Norwegians in these substances, who have long been able to give a discount on electrical vehicles or so - called tweezers, is that they have, of course, achieved significant results. And we've achieved tremendous success in changing cars in Iceland. Never have so many cars been sold separately in this category. We have achieved tremendous success there. The Norwegians, on the other hand, now talk about it, as I read the news, and we must not be allowed to make a move to make out of the discount they've been giving. When the infrastructure in the country, because of the transport, is about to be ready, the discount will fall on us when we are out in the country, at last, we can begin to participate in this great revolution. So we need to think about this on a much broader foundation than we realize in the discussion of this particular tax change that we have made to talk about. Despite our feeling of need for improvement here and change, I want us never to forget the wonderful position we have entered in the Icelandic economy. The consequences of this financial bill and the Icelandic economy are in our hands. The way we handle it depends on how we deal with this fine situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u46	A respectable president. Hv. One senator says that it is difficult to bring the results that have been achieved. I'm just going to fix it up a little bit and say that it's really hard to screw up the situations that are going on with the current wave of tourists, when the macroman came and so forth, in the streets, it's hard to screw up the interest that has happened to us. But as noted in the budget bill, if circumstances such as a broader tax product do not arise as a slowdown, we get into trouble just in case, for example. A debt that seems to be the focus and only the government's priorities. Now I'd like to turn back a little bit. A senator to me earlier on the matter of answering the people of Snæfellsness, the West, the Cove, and other places. We now achieved a measure of biological sustainability when the dinner was applied. We achieved a certain economic economy when expeditation was introduced, although this export actually broke the third important element of social sustainability in which hostilities began to move forward and back, which destroyed entire settlements. That's why I don't understand why I'm being asked how to answer the inhabitants of Snæfellsness and the West when the present system is being built here and there is going to fall apart. I spoke earlier in my speech about how we handle taxes better. I agree with that word. Senator. To find out, we need information, such as the reports under government law that we can't get, they're missing. Do you think Bjarni has them? I wonder, he likes to have reports. We can hardly answer questions about how and if we are dealing well with the public money if we do not get good information back on how we're going. I'd like to drop the questions back. How does that answer? A senator for the people of Snæfellsness and the West for their sustainability? Where are the reports?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I want his opening statement in the opponent's comment that it would be an achievement to screw up the results. It's very easy to screw up the results. What I'm trying to do is put in the General Meeting's symposium on this budget talk, cover 1. The budget for 2018 is that we should look just as closely at the expense gate. I think and just say that I think maybe we're using the conveniences. We don't know much about what we're doing, we're gonna put a lot less focus on it, if I may gossip, a respectable president, how we employ the money, and if there's anything we can do better. I let myself, a respectable president, answer my question. An officer earlier asked him for some form of the people who live by seeing their companies come together, the compressions have to be made, and the work is retreating. I was trying to describe the reality. What answer do I have for these people? I have an answer that I cannot picture that course as a dog. A senator spoke in his talk chair about taking more of the resource uses, but he answered it with a different answer than to tighten the problem I was trying to describe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u48	A respectable president. To continue with it, the current system does not really, it is the exact problem of the current system. It would be easy to screw up the results, you're absolutely right. There is a warning in the budget; increasing the taxes may cause a decrease in income as the taxes slow down. What tax groups are expected to improve in the near future? However, I said that it was easy to get here under the circumstances. It would have been really hard to screw up getting here. It's easy to screw that up for the future, I totally agree with that. That's a warning from the budget bill. That is why I ask: How should we apply that counsel? For the other thing, as I told you earlier, the current system is destroying our country's settlements. That's why I find it very strange to turn that question at me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u49	A respectable president. Hv. When a senator arrives here, he must endure the added charge that it is not unusual for a person to pray that he answer the question of how that film should appear to the inhabitants. I'm simply stressing that the feast will not be endless. A simple calculation of a budget frame may not be the best control device we have. We must be critical of what we do. That's what I know. A senator understands. He is critical of his work on a financial committee. I'll just go and do a great job. That's what we do. It is our job to discuss how we can better handle the money that comes here. What are we making out of them? Are we rendering the best possible service for this wealth? We do not really have any other responsibilities, those of us who are to consider responsibility for these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u50	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I could probably ask him ten questions at least, but there's no time for them. In discussions about the financial program, there was a problem. A senator that would take many things from when we agreed on a plan for spring until we were given a bill in the fall that would become the final action to support the goals we set in a financial programme, as he put it. Now it's up, and I have to ask you why. A senator on a prince's act. From collapse to the year above, two companies, among the 40 most profitable in Iceland, returned some 600 million in profits, a health - care business. Does the senator feel that the individual health care that most of its income from the state can yield enormous profits, e.g. while we still have a lot of pay-offs in the system? We look at a farm that's half-employed, including a farm. On the basis of government action, etc. I think there's a lot we can talk about here. The senator spoke of handling taxes well. What's the use of tax dollars? When it comes to handling taxes, what have the people discussed? Don't people want health care that's good and is out all over the country? Have we not been given one study after another? Don't people in general want good schools to be cared for? Even if we are in a good position now, it is not difficult to maintain it. Of course, it's about being good and afraid to deal with this basic service. So I have to ask the senator if he or she feels that this is a normal business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u51	A respectable president. I thank the senator for her response. I just have to make a confession, a respectable president, that I don't know the money she mentioned here, maybe I'd like to ask her in a later answer to discuss it so that I can directly answer it. However, I would like to say, as my outlook on life, that my nature does not make a marriage mate as vulnerable as service to sick people. I don't know, I'm talking about it. Although I can give my full support, and support, that we will carry out the additional work and service to private citizens, I also don't want to become some big business. I simply don't have a conscience to do that and can stand for that meaning anywhere. Then there is another deeper discussion that I can't handle in this counterargument. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm trying to bring up in this discussion. Senator, how we use this tax money better. It's exactly what the senator listed here. Are we rendering sufficient service with the funds we are collecting? It's really our job. Do we have the conviction that we are doing the best of what we can from our taxpayers and those we employ in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u52	Thank you. A senator for the answer, a respectable president. Those who are perhaps the most judgmental of whether we are doing this service must be those who accept it. It has come to pass, and we know that people in general are not at peace with our health systems, our education systems, transportation activities, etc. So somewhere, we must think again and do better. For this company, it's only in media right now. Maybe we should call in a budget report on the types of companies that have been in medical care and take the situation from collapse. I think doing that is the best thing to do and see how evolution has developed. I want to come back to the pension business and stuff. That may be a direct result of what we're discussing here, how we handle the civilian tax money. Social security bills are now increasing by 4.7%, that's 10. The tax bill, making it possible for the average pensioner to get them around 238. K. After taxes, it's around $6,700. increase. It is only hoped that people will ask: If not now, when can you make it better? It's a big group. It costs a lot of money. But when can this be possible if it is not now for this lowest group and, of course, for people who have the minimum size? This discussion is not to be overlooked. If not now that the growth has been 7.2% last year, etc. When will the senator see that we can do this? Because if we're always behind them, these people will always be drawn back, they won't get us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u53	A respectable president. We raise the transfers or contributions to social security, as the law indicates, by 4.7%, which is built into the rules. I'd be much more worried about it if we weren't recommending it. In recent years, we have been able to ensure the increased benefit of these taxes, a substantial increase in financial resources. It is part of our work. That is why it is so important that we maintain the power to buy. It is very true that the senator notes that this is enormously costly; it takes a great deal of money to take a big step in these matters. I hope I don't make a total smooth, respectable President, when I say it seems to me that every cent for raise would cost about 300 million. K. I may have completely lost my feet by mentioning this number, but that's how it is in my head. I'm just ready to drag her back and I'm sorry if she's completely ridiculous. But in view of this production, it's a lot of money. We've made a substantial increase in this money. We are, as we have seen in this discussion, reaching 300 levels. K. For those living alone, the goal of living with a pension is for them. Then, when is the right time to do this? That's exactly what it is now. We are allowing it to follow the trend in the community. That's what we're doing. We have made good progress in this regard. We also, in our financial program, have shown that we are going to make more progress in improving these benefits, such as by reducing the average value.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u54	Madam President. At the first overview of the budget bill, it becomes evident once more that the purpose of this government is nothing more than to maintain a system established and the system carried out by the last right government. Today, we are not being used to prepare for the future and the changes that will take place there. And there is nothing to make up for the failures of the last right control. It was supposed to change everything for elections and everybody spoke that way, but there are no others. Instead, it's the highest. The prime minister of unions and employees said that they are the main threat to stability. I can't agree with that, I think the biggest threat is the government itself because she doesn't want to face people's demands. Then I'm not just thinking about the pay, what you get in the envelope, I'm thinking about the welfare system. The government was reported on the Norwegian model yesterday. So I repeat what many government opposers said yesterday, it's not just about economic stability, it's not what's missing primarily at the back of the road now, no, it's not social stability. Of course, the financial bill does not measure up to any expectations as state's motto on balance and vision is viewed. It may well be that there is a balance between members of the community, it is very difficult to talk about a balance that would be ideal for 6,100 children who suffered a material shortage in 2015, or disability. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. The secretary of finance is happy to smile if he thinks it's funny. There is no way to talk about perspective when it is not demonstrated that we are going to accept the opportunities and challenges that we face in the education system. Advertising. The labour market welfare minister for the Norwegian model is nothing more than a bunch of empty phrases. Those are beautiful words that he has picked up in speeches and reports, but he needs to show that if he means something by means of them, he will fulfill them. Either he is deliberately misleading the discussion or he doesn't understand what this Norwegian labour market model is doing. I know because of his former work that this is the former. He's misleading the discussion. Fortunately, people are seeing through this end, the government groups are supported by less than one third of the nation, I think. The problem is that she does not accept that message. You plan to continue your conservative political activities, where your public service and public health systems are slowly undermined. This is reflected in the words of the Law. Isn't there an increase in donations for SAk and LSH 39 million hospital service? It's really cut. So we came back to the vision. We know that there are major changes in the workforce. The most advanced scientists say that 50% of all jobs will disappear and change. Of course, new ones will be born, but we will need to take these new jobs, and we need to start making the best of ourselves right away. Nevertheless, surgery for innovation and research is available. The colleges continue to make money, and they are kind of at the university in North countries. I don't know how these schools are supposed to react to a completely different situation that will take them down so narrowly. The same can be said of high school. I'm not gonna keep talking about them here. V.E.G. The minister of finance could not answer. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir on that matter earlier and probably can't either. You'll always think of the Norwegian model because everyone's talking about it, both government and government. In the countries of the North, people are looking to build up and invest in knowledge and education along with the structure of the welfare system. I'm sorry, man, this isn't where they do it. Surprisingly, high school may continue to suffer financial hardship in the recent years. What I'm worried about is a lack of ambition in education. It is not just a matter of future life. It is also very hard to deal with in the country. It has been shown that good education in the country has proved to be amazingly based support. It is enough to mention such schools as the University of High School at the Grinch or the University of Akureyri, where men have been able to build up new and exciting jobs, but we have also managed to keep people in these settlements. A fine example of this is the situation in theater schools, the one in the capital area, and the other in Akureyri. There's a 96% pro at Akureyri Schools, based on 36◯37% here. It's not for nothing. The transport contributions are also very far away from elections, and the campaign program was based on a transport program adopted by the end of October. It seems to me that the extra amount of money is mostly taking place in one large project, a beast's tunnel. It's important, and I think we can agree on it. This may be the case, though, even if it is not disintegrated. In many parts of the country, the transportation system has failed to meet minimum standards, and I hope that as many executives have taken a ride in the North East, or in the West, or even to the city's island. Well, it's time for another. A major prerequisite for distributing tourists and attracting them to land is a powerful transport system. Isn't it true that foreign tourists who come here spend almost 7 million nights in Iceland? But half of them are in the capital area, and we have so much to work on attracting people to land. That's a good idea. Since we are talking about the country's settlements, it is natural to think about the transport capacity of electricity across the country. I think it's an assignment that everyone agrees on. However, the current tax system changes do not focus on increasing the equation and building for social stability. The way we go is to pay taxes, we can call them "U.S. Increase." This means an increase in fuel consumption and an increase in tax worth in tourism, on the other hand. Of course, this will harden the wealthy, much like those in the country. I'm not going to criticize these increases, I've talked about that it might be wise to move the worth of a trip to the top level. There are many reasons for the rise in fuel, but such tax changes need to be followed by a plan on which counter measures will be taken, since such increases may be more difficult on people in the country. There's a little bit of time left, but I might come in for a talk later today. I still want to discuss housing because it's a very special dart. V.E.G. The welfare minister here makes himself a digran, just out of the closet as some kind of Teflon-catch and talks about what he's doing in his housing. But he is really doing nothing but performs promises and contracts made with the labor movement a few years ago. [[The president calls.]] It's good that he can afford them, but there's much more to be done. Maybe I'll just have a conversation with him about it in unprepared inquiries after the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking you. A senator for a very bad speech. I'm going to ask about the last thing he mentioned in his talk. One of the government's companies, and one who now owns the Ministry of finance, came out of the closet yesterday, which is, what, is to say, the third path of soparadya, which has right economic and left welfare systems. Here we go. A member of a class who teaches himself to be a socialist who may have a little deeper knowledge of these matters. How does he see this right economic agenda on the budget bill? Where's the left welfare system? We're looking at an increase in consumption taxes; alcohol and tobacco tax, and gasoline tax, at the same time as they're raising the value tax, which I don't know if it should be counterimbursement. Then I ask: Is the right economic policy really that the person is supposed to pay for everything, and maybe also for the left welfare system we really want to build up here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u56	Madam President. I'm not going to go to some political diagnosis at the highest level. Minister of Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. I agree with him a lot. I think there's a lot of good things he says. I liked his speech last night and wanted him to be even the fourth member of the United States. But the situation is that he is in a government that does not enforce what it says. We watch that, for example. In 1998, the low rate of taxes was 4%. We now have a tax burden at the lowest wage of 16%. If he meant something by what he says, he would resort to tax reforms that changed, but he would not take some action that might weigh far more on the most paid people. In 2014, 12% of the population felt that it was difficult to make ends meet. Of course, that was before his time. If the highest. Minister will deny what he says, and he will lie down with the rest of us, trying to change this, trying to get it down. I read an article this morning after the Chairman of the Institute of Destiny, Calmon Calmon. It does not describe the reality of the ultimate. Prime Minister describes the situation. I know there's a table between the two, the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Prime Minister, they must talk at government meetings. They have to start doing it. Þorsteinn, the highest. Minister, must go to the highest. Prime Minister, if he is consistent, that he is not going to let it go, and now he intends to hit the table and work on levels of equal policy. [[President (JSE): The president would like to remind you that the members of Congress and ministers are addressed with full name.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u57	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer. Isn't this just the status quote of the past few years, with President's permission, so I'll only get a piece of Latin? V.E.G. A government claims to want a better welfare system and a better education system, but at the same time we look at countersurgent actions that are cut off on the same thing as men pretend to be giving in the same lawsuit. If we are going to build a left welfare system or a welfare system, what action would we take? A senator wants to see? How can we create a more reasonable system compared to what is added to our budget for 2018? I really don't see very well there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u58	Madam President. I'm waiting for the highest. A senator apologizes for not calling him by name. In fact, what should now be done to support the welfare system is going back to the tax system that was in the time of the last government in which the nation's richest segment paid more than that. Of course, it is important to be careful that such tax returns do not take into account those who are struggling to survive their pay. But it is really possible to park, e.g. On a wealth tax. That is a very legitimate tax and a reasonable one. I think he gave up about 10 billion. We now reduce $2 billion interest rates, I think that's 30%, because the prices of the apartments you live in are increasing, but that doesn't say all about the cost. They don't fuck with people. Child damages are getting off at 250 yards. At least, the lowest wage in this country is 280 to300 you. K. per month. It is natural to strengthen this system, which is the real equation system. The saddest part of my life is because I often find so many exciting things to be. Ministers of reverends talk about, when they could have rather gotten their affairs through and then go to sleep with a good conscience if they meant what they said, if they had formed five categories of government over Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u59	A respectable president. There's a lot to do in this budget bill for 2018. It is based on new laws on government law, the first financial bill to be performed after a new process. It's a new kind of work that everyone here is stepping up, sounds to me, both in the debate of financial policy and financial agendas as well as in the budget panel. That's where we have to take our societies with us into a new thought, I've felt. The financial agenda lays down key lines, but the details are developed into financial terms, such as at the right time. paritaprevir Consider the case of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, in his earlier speech. It is clear that it will take some years to establish a perfect system that has a new set of laws on public finances. But tomorrow we'll have the opportunity to ask the Ministry's Minister about things rather than things and get more accurate answers. Today, it sounds like we're having a rough discussion. They pick their own litigators. I'm gonna do the same. For the first time, I'm involved in this discussion, and I find it interesting to hear what it's like to do. Councilmen go through 1st. ... asimportantasthe fiscal bill is. Clearly, the grand task is to maintain the good economic success that has been achieved in recent years. The big news is, if I intervene in the first and main item of the bill, that it meets the criticism of tourism for a short lead-in period in terms of an increase in worth of taxes, which was then to be reduced, but generally down to 22.5%. Thus, the taximacies of tourism are evaporated. Therefore, products should be lowered. I hope we'll be more competitive. I'd like to start by talking about green taxes, which are part of government environmental and climate policies, but the value of extra tax goes down on import or buy an eco-friendly car. It is extended to three years, and the goal is set for a number of cars. Carbon costs are increased; emissions of greenhouse gases are clearly linked. Oil charge is raised beyond gas charge in light of emissions. Further steps are also prepared: infrastructure, new incentives for individuals and companies, and then climate change. These green taxes are in my mind not only a income raise but a big, somewhat bold step toward the change in the right direction for climate. Perhaps it is also a new thought that needs to be used to get used to. One objective of the taxation of vehicles is to reduce emissions, as mentioned earlier, by reducing the price of road vehicles and vehicles used in the form of environmental energy sources. Already there's a lot of selection of cars like that. There has been a significant increase in the import of such vehicles. It is a cause for rejoicing. The discussion and these actions may work in the right direction, but the structure of these devices needs to be rapid. For example, my opinion is that we must stop using electricity here and there at the expense of our community. We need to change the structure of the project until the infrastructure can start in earnest, for example, in the country. If you look at the big lines, the government intends to set priorities for health and welfare, as it has also been observed. Heavy health care is mainly a building of a new hospital, which becomes a major step in progress, as well as a position of employment for the people who work there and for those who accept service. The other thing I would like to shed light on health care is health care; it will be strengthened as the first stop for patients. The international services of the health care unit will be strengthened. This includes a very important task - a mental - health team. I don't feel that it has had enough coverage on the basis of the importance and effectiveness of this project. The first team was set up in Breiðholti and services from the east of Reykjavík. Next, the west side will be taken, and third stage will be taken to a company in the Kragas. This work is very meaningful to the objective of all the rural society who have set themselves up as a public health policy. In some areas it is simply waiting to start working with the State on this important and very important project. A public health policy programme in the community includes increasing cooperation with health care professionals and improving the quality of your well - being and mental health status. The number of people who attend mental - health services in return has been found to improve the quality of their service to those in need. At the end of this national budget, contributions to health care should increase by 910 million just to this point. In the long run, I feel somewhat at peace with future health plans regarding the hospital construction. Evidently, though, the weight will be over the next year and so on. The primary objective that lies ahead is to establish a comprehensive policy with clear targets for health care, physical functioning and co-operation within the health care sector. If I came here in the end into education briefly, of course, I agree that it would have been a very successful addition to educational contributions. But I guess priorities need to be set. Government choice is to prioritize health and welfare matters. As shown in the budget bill, the work must be done to improve that position. Overall, contributions to a university degree above the prices of clients are raised, as well as building an additional form of the Icelandic language. I want to reiterate that it would have been our favorite operation in the bright future to add. That's all I'm going to add. I see that the social and equal minister is behind me in a speech chair so I'd rather give him the word on the welfare issues. I've been speaking for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u60	Mr. President. We're here discussing a budget bill for 2018 and the emphasis it makes and the government's policy on key issues. It has been criticized that the government does not place enough emphasis on the welfare issues involved in this bill. In fact, that discussion was heard during spring financial discussions. Nevertheless, we see that the increase in welfare matters is just what is most prominent. This is the group of paintings that will be the most important part of the annual budget and that will continue in the budget since 2017. In 2018, the bill is going forward as it is currently, with about 51% of the government budget coming up to the welfare level. Is that the highest we've seen in recent years? And more important: According to a national financial programme, this ratio is expected to go further as the duration of the programme goes on and on at the highest level, I think, about 53% by the end of the season. Of course, this shows priorities in action. We place tremendous emphasis on both social and health matters, which are reflected in our lives. in that we are starting the building of a land hospital in the next year, a project that has been waiting for the past two decades, and it has never been established until now. Of course, there is a huge breakthrough for health care in Iceland. We also place great emphasis on health care, on mental health care, on social matters such as increased maternity, housing - both young people but also on the affairs of each other's housing - where we build a scholarship to build a public rented apartment, which is certainly as suggested in the discussion that we are fulfilling the commitments of a state, while we are adding more than the commitments made. But we are also taking various other measures together, in fact, 14 crucial measures to address the current massive housing problems that have gone on progressively in recent years. It has, in fact, led to the fact that at the moment we are dealing with the prices of a real estate market because of the lack of which is mainly due to the incomeiest young people taking the first steps into the housing market. As a result, the success of this problem is crucial. We continue to build up the social security system by increasing the minimum amount of money to the ones alone from 280 levels. K. every month for 300 yrs. K. to monitor the minimum labour market and the minimum financial level of social security. In education, we look to projects like the grammatical project, which is of utmost importance to the future of our language. At the same time, despite the lack of financial contributions to both high school and university, we see an increase in donations per student at both levels. At the same time, a huge increase in economic innovation, the promotion of industrial innovation, and, of course, this is important. Despite the recent years, however, the favorable environment here created for a new business shortly after a collapse has been far removed, resulting in great growth in that area. We can see that there we again look at the consequences of the swinging Icelandic economy and swinging coins. In the end, it may be the most important thing in these financial laws, except for the importance of welfare, the emphasis on responsible government of the government of the government of the government of the government. That we don't go over one more trip, that the terms of the government won't be over again to fan out, increase in in inflation pressure, increase growth beyond what is already, and now most people are concerned about it. This weakness in terms of government matters has been repeatedly identified. Governments have repeated over the years, and indeed decades have been criticized for the same fact, that when money flows into a government fund, it is as hard as it will be spent in time. Then there will be no space when the economy regroups, as it always always does in the end. In that case, government funds cannot afford to attack infrastructure investments, not afford to perform their basic services properly. That's what's being set up here for us not to repeat. That we already have space in the state of the budget, that is, in order to enable us to operate through the infrastructure, so that we can perform our basic services so as to contribute to the economy, to keep the interest level as low as possible, to keep the inflation as we have better prepared for many years now, one of the most solid price we've ever got to know for years. Few things are more important to home. It must be kept in mind in this context. They are just the most efficient income - the least of which are so extreme - that they suffer from inflation, by means of high stature, and by extreme fluctuations in a housing market, where either too much or too little is built. It is this group that we should especially think about as we look to a disciplined economy. You may hear these criticisms: This should be added on expenses, even though we watch a short - term increase in government spending. Here, taxes should be raised in order to finance their budget increase, despite the total lack of sense of wisdom in financing or increasing the combined consumption at the climax of a tax increase. In other words, under that increase, there will be no steps when we regroup and, in fact, immediately have to reroute the service that is thus built up again as we have experienced before. In the past, we have had to contend with cutting back the promises of politicians, even in the year or two after they are given, where the economy has regrouped. It has been observed during the discussion that someone in the memory of the section finds that a lawsuit in these materials is surprising. We have, as it were, been placed on a booth all over the political spectrum, so to speak. However, it should not surprise anyone what we base our ideologies for, what we fight for. We talk about a righteous society, about freedom of business, about balance. We focus on the welfare and its structure, on the stability of the economic environment, on the responsible government of state funds, and on freedom of business, equal opportunities, both opportunities to improve their status, whether a person or a company. This balance we look for in our course is well reflected in the emphasis presented in the budget. Of course, when we look at the health system, the affairs of older citizens, the status of young people, for example. that housing markets, that many things can be done better. Of course, a five - year plan that highlights these issues is under way. One thing I would especially like to mention in this context is the criticism that housing support, i.e. I'm going to get less interest here. It forgets that we too are building, together with the growth process, on a new support system to buy homes for young people who I think are greatly underestimated in this discussion, which is exactly the most special means of saving. She'd be very happy to forget. It encourages people to take advantage of savings that is quite a small or low percentage of young people use today, where they can put two percent aside, get 2% raise from their employer, and then double their savings, and then use government tax freedom when it comes to first purchases. I think this is one of the strongest options we've had to support young people for their first purchases. I think we should look more closely at how we can build around it. But I'm not gonna have any more of my words. However, I make it clear that here, of course, I speak as a member of the woodcution rather than a social minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for participating in this discussion. I decided that he separated his character as minister and as a member of the Parliament at the end. Maybe we could use some. We have been surprised at what has been following yesterday and in this discussion. Councilmen and the highest. The Ministers of the Revolution are primarily speaking for their policy. Explain her class policy, cross her self, we're both right, left, all kinds, we're not the Independence Party. V.E.G. A minister could have just come up here and told us, "We're not the Independence Party, no matter what you think. I'm a senator at the Cradle. I'm not just the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. I think it's a bit cute, if I'm supposed to be completely honest, because these classes sit together in the government. We were discussing the policy of this government yesterday. I expect the budget to be the government's budget, not just the highest. Secretary of finance, a senator's woodcution to be stated. Or what? I'd like to ask you why I read it in the media that maybe it's not a more serious matter for everything that comes out of the budget. In view of this, I'm looking for a self-important identity in public discussions - and I just think it's very positive that they just take it out and get it out here in a public discussion - whether it's the highest level. Minister thinks there's more to the bill. Either way. In view of the fact that this does not seem to be a perfect unity in the government rather than much, a minister feels that there is more to the tax proposals suggested in the bill, and he studied in his talk. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister who speaks of the importance of being cautious about the door of joy when it comes to spending what he will have to say about the bill of his fellow group in the courthouse. Secretary of the budget, which will appear in the highest bill. Minister that there is a prerequisite discontinuation in recent years - this is shown on page 95 of the bill, if the highest level. A minister wants to learn about it - that weight has become very heavy on the main taxes, such as credit taxes, income taxes on individuals, and insurance bills, which include slowing down the income will take a much larger dip than the expenses, with the consequences of the recovery to the worse, and collection will begin again. [[The president calls.]] To put it this way: The number of businesses that remain is too heavy on the rest of them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why not respond to this in the highest bill? Minister of Action?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u62	Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the answer. Our identity was never lost, but it seemed that many did not understand it. In this policy discussion, we felt that it was an excellent tool to sharpen the understanding of others about where we came from. Of course, it's a government budget. We are behind it and the emphasis it put forth in the same way as we highlighted the emphasis presented in the government's financial program on which the budget is based. In fact, it seems in this discussion that it is very difficult for members of the Parliament to accept the discipline given in the state's budget and that they would like to be able to dissuade more than this, but it is proposed by a conservative national financial policy to offset the high levels of finance, preventing the growth in this area from inflation with the need for interest. In fact, this is what we have repeatedly been warned about, and I came to a good place earlier, and the Scroll warned very clearly that the hold of the state's budget must be there if not for further growth. Is there more to the budget bill? Yeah, I think I'm definitely sure. But it would be disrespectful to the council to believe that the council will not take matters into consideration, and some changes may arise there. Of course, legal committees will review the case, of course there are controversial issues, including them. I'm no special fan of the tax counts, but here we are talking about the nature of green taxes, who they should be, and what their scope should be, and what it takes to encourage changes in behavior so that we can resist our commitment to climate, which is very important and we support our whole mind. In terms of contracting income stocks, improving stocks, etc., it's all very nice talking for tax promotions. I simply object to a vast amount of tax increases when the state has more than enough income. In the future, it may well be that the State will face challenges that we will eventually respond appropriately. But in the present circumstances, there is no reason for an extensive increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u63	The President may have been required to address the highest. Minister to social and housing minister, but it will be an out-of-date title, to a people in the last term. Now is the correct address of the social and equal minister. It's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u64	Mr. President. I don't understand how to get the highest. Minister and minister. A reliminator assumes that in recent years it is very important to maintain, but still it is not to collect income, because that is what the late bank has been saying in recent years, as the Supreme Court has been doing. Ministers should be aware. The late bank has just been pointing out that cutting down income companies is dangerous, thus reducing the hold up of financial resources. Here comes the highest. Ministers up and say: It's very important to keep up, but you can't make more money at all. Same thing. The other day, a minister publicly stated that he felt that the equality of the tax system was very important. Does he not feel, then, that the tax system should be used to reduce the real wrongs of the country that is part of the divided property, which involves the growing dissociation of wealth in Iceland? Of course, this can be taken for example. by placing on a moderate resource tax as suggested by members of the Left Green. Or finds the highest. So a minister went too far in the equal role of the tax system? Wants the highest. Ministers have set the tax system's equation to make sure that the change in wealth continues to increase, as I think it would be intended for this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u65	Mr. President. Here's some big, interesting questions. Of course, when it comes to a tax - fund gain gain increase, it is not that the less tax - paying ideas turn toward increasing the share's supply, increasing the rest of the state funds, which, of course, might give a lot of evidence that could increase the maintenance of the state's budget at this point. Of course, these funds would be spent just as hard. On this point, the proposal is that the state takes a larger portion of the cake to reinvigorate so hard, meaning that the maintenance effect of such a tax increase would be zero, and it simply translated that it would be more difficult to react to the declines and contractions in the income of the state's funds and the importance of getting back together on expenses. In fact, it is a very important matter. But we have a lot of money in this country. It would be very interesting to go into the discussion of property balance and how much of that imbalance is simply tied to our age. [[The president calls.]] We're building property over the years. I don't think there's anything to explain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for his speech and also for taking part in the discussion. I expect to also listen to him tomorrow when it comes to individual lawsuits. I'm just going to jump into the lawsuits that hear under the minister and ask him about them. I find it hard to see, though this refers to an increase in the budget of 2017 to 2018, it appears mainly to be related to an increase in micromassity. The amount of money is not being set for the planned adjustment of the law. Is it not possible to speed up the legal adjustments presented in the budget so that microsurgents, with a much higher proportion of people living in poverty and less in pensions, less possessions, comparable dress - ups, as agreed to provide older citizens? What can we do together to try to resolve a case I know the Minister has been working on for some time? What can we do to speed up the appointment of that matter here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. This question is specifically asked in the matters of disability. It's true that we went through a lot of system changes in the social security system. The senator stood as social and housing minister at the time, but the poor were left behind. Sadly, though, it seems that we need ever more to try to make peace with those changes to those stakeholders and especially toward despair. I appreciate the concern of the Microcolleague Community when it comes to changing the current microenergy assessment to a work programme, that a job opportunities and a flexible labour market will be put in place to face the changing systems that I am, in fact, convinced that are, but of course, I need to make sure that they have been carefully considered before making those changes. So we assume that the bills will appear this winter, hopefully we'll be ready for next spring. As a result, I do not expect that it will be practical to complete that work or that these changes will take place until the year 2018/2019. However, the budget bill is currently expected to provide a comparable increase in the minimum or income insurance insurance of the individual species, i.e. increase from 280 up. K. of 300. K. During a month in microbelets, like sensibilities in pensioners and in general credit height is being increased by 4.7%, similar to those in pensioner patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u68	A respectable president. I want to reiterate my encouragement to the highest level. Minister of attempting to change the pension system as soon as possible at the council. I know quite well the differences involved in a job performance, but there is no comparable difference that has to do with the change in pension itself, especially since we are talking about up to a quarter increase in the pension of those who have been remembered. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: The importance of raising unemployment has been very determined by the labor movement. It has also pointed out the importance now of talking about the importance of being concerned about the personality discount and its rise. Here again, people are talking about what is best for those with the lowest income, the least of which can be mentioned among the hands. So I would be interested to hear from the minister whether he intends to meet the labor movement's wishes for an increase in unemployment and a rise in personality discounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u69	President. I could naturally promise in my sleeve at the highest. Secretary of finance for both. The bottom line of the matter is the second question that has to do with the personality discount itself, that we are being examined, as we have presented, the ideas involved in the possibility of changing this arrangement. In fact, I think one of the main defects of the present personality discount is how expensive it is for a government fund to move it. Well, it's useful to all income groups when a personal discount is lifted. I think we could look at tax systems that would be more flexible in this regard and that will help to move, especially with the interests of the most efficient groups in mind. In terms of specific increases in unemployment levels, we have not yet been examined, not at least, increases such as what we have seen in public insurance, and in the current employment situation, there has actually not been much pressure to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u70	A respectable president. Hv. One senator noted that we have leeway in times of distress. It is also noted that the taxes should be more flexible. It will only blow their efforts not to recommend that the tax collectors be exalted, that there will be more feet under the table to help, as indicated by the financial bill, if these huge strains that we now rely on are slowed down. If we had more and more tax types, even those we now rely on would be lower. It can also be said that as taxes increase, less tax taxes and income taxes could be achieved, but not just increasing the total tax burden by increasing the potential value. It also means that when you have to adjust it, it would be easier to adjust to the percentage of each tax product than to add entirely new ones. That's how I look at the system and the tip that's in the budget that there's a need to increase the number of taxes and improve them in order to be more effective when it comes to slowing down. Then I'm not saying a total tax burden should be raised but simply that it's a broader back when economic tensions start.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I believe that, in the end, it is an empty matter to talk about broad or thin provinces, eventually all of this is taken to us here. We will eventually pay it either directly or indirectly whether it is direct income taxes, credit taxes, product taxes, or any other name we choose to mention the taxes at one time. Of course, this does not change the fact that there are many opportunities for property taxes, which I personally don't particularly like, high income taxes, and it's good to remember that we have a multi-changing or multi-way income tax system with both the income tax points and the effect of personal discounts. I think it's much better to have our tax system quite simple and clearly. At the end, it is drawn into the same pocket, but it is better to clear its activity. I don't agree entirely with the opinion shown in the earlier discussion that it puts us in a particularly delicate position when it regroups in the economy, for it eventually goes to the same place, whether it is an infinite number or a relatively few and broad. I personally prefer a simple tax system with a wide range of tax stocks, but not a very high and complex emulator of various tax types, which make the tax system very difficult and difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u72	A respectable president. Here's the key point for distribution. It's about taxing can be taxed where you can, in fact, tax them. If we have a large general tax product, such as income tax, or merit taxation, it affects everyone, especially in cases of severe stress. A wide range of tax strains allows for a more precise approach to tax increases or reductions. I don't fully understand the context of this if the stepwise exchange of personal discounts, as is meant here, but it must not be a step-traveled income tax. There's nothing complicated about this, there's no one who makes it by hand, back and forth, it's extremely computeristic and simple, and we've made some really complicated, really good equipment that's doing it for us. I don't see that there's anything complicated about it, so I just sent these statements back and I hope for better explanations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u73	President. Hv. A senator would like better explanations. That's probably what they're trying to do. When we talk about the income tax system itself, it is very important that we look at its income balance factor and that is exactly what I meant by the current personality discount system. It is useful to all income groups, regardless of whether they have 2 million per month or 200 thousand per month. However, it is certainly more weighted in the tax percentage or in the active tax percentage by the person with the lowest income. I think this system can be made even better by making a high personal discount for the income share, which disappears somewhere in the middle, progressively decreasing with increasing income. The ideas presented in the material are also based on two - step taxation systems above. It has become a very multi-stage tax system, which is very easy to deal with, such as the one with challenges. A senator describes how we need to be careful to protect the most efficient groups when the government needs to earn more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u74	Mr. President. What a thrill it is to observe this discussion, especially the one completing the government and government income and how people envision it! If we want the tax system to serve its equal role, it will be the nature of a matter, as it were, more complex than having a flat tax percentage. That's the nature of the case. That's why we've had a different tax percentage in the income tax system, which is why we've had a different tax percentage in the cost tax system. Though some have to do with it. Councilmen, even the highest. A financial minister has foretold that there will be only one tax step, so the fact is that the vast majority of the nations use the flexibility of the system to taxe people, goods, and possessions in various ways in order to achieve this equal role. I want to draw attention to this, because it has been claimed that we all agree here on the equal role of the tax system, that it is so obvious just by this 1st. of the budget bill that it's a baloney political dispute. However, it's good to say that we have an equation at this time, at least If people are looking for an image and want to place themselves somewhere on the political spectrum and between the right and the left, then it's good to be equal, but then people must also take action. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers, follow their word. We have to see the place to make up the budget bill if people suddenly become so interested here in increasing the equation. I pointed out that on page 18. 94 and 95 are also called attention to the fact that in recent years certain economic weaknesses are accompanied by economic weaknesses. This enables the income to grow into heavy loads for the rest of the income. I think it's very important that we draw this out, because it's in the bill itself, and it's very important that we take note of the messages it contains. We're being warned what to do. Councilmen saying that the emphasis here is that it should only be used to build up the economy and not increase the number of income stocks may be risky. We'll just get this in black and white on the bill from the highest level. The secretary of finance for the restoration. There has also been a strong warning against increasing expenses, but the fact is that the combined consumption as a proportion of GDP is falling. She's been dating in recent years. She continues to gather with this financial bill. Of course, it is a political policy, one on the other hand, that of not increasing the income markets or of contracting the combination. That's the result of the budget bill. When we consider what is being suggested here, it is of course far from meeting the expectations for elections, and it is not a year since elections, that this should be built up. Not at all. V.E.G. Ministers and ministers. The members of the major body have claimed that university problems are being met. Have these people visited the university? Have they talked to the people working at the university? Do they realize how they are driven and driven with practice teachers in an ever - increasing proportion because teachers cannot be hired in fixed positions? It's only natural to reduce the number of students at college, as I said yesterday, because school education has been a very special problem here. No, I haven't noticed. Here people speak of investing in education, research, and innovation. That's what it said. A senator at the projection and the Supreme Court. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the past. Yes, investors in research and innovation. What are we talking about? I'm going up here to explore innovation, research and knowledge. There's nothing to invest in. They're holding still, if that's the case. There is no advance in innovation and research. It is not expected by the Scientific and Technical Council that contributions to university students should be made to the average OECD. We are still about half of the world's population when it comes to making donations to a university. We're trying to put in a few hundred million in a university system where only the University of Iceland needs one and a half billion. There are people who opened their doors during this crisis, and people lost their jobs, opening their schools, letting people study so that they could change their jobs, getting an education. These schools all as one, the colleges of the country, shouldered their social responsibility in the confidence that the Allied Council would make it up to them and make sure that these institutions could continue to be flagships for research, innovation, and science in a modern society on which our future depends. It's not right. It's all replaced by innovation, studies, and science, no matter what. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opinion told earlier that this was a special focus of the government. You can't come up here and talk this way, Mr. President. It doesn't really matter where I look at education. What a disappointment! But I also need to discuss what seems to still be a conflicting subject, which is the planned change in merit tax. After these changes there will be an additional tax worth in Iceland's second largest in Europe. At this point, the transport organization has pointed forward. This change is proposed to balance the status of tourism with other sectores in Iceland. But is that so? In what environment does tourism operate? Doesn't it work in an international environment? Are we not classed in a government that is speaking of the importance of our being in an international environment? What is being done with this tax change is that there should continue to be a hosting fee, which is widely practiced in Europe, and in fact all classes have agreed on, but there is a much lower value tax on this same hosting. Thus, the competitiveness of tourism is being undermined. In spring, it was promised that there would be an analysis. They would be aware of how this would affect the competitiveness of tourism because tourism has warned that this is important, especially for smaller companies living abroad. Where is that diagnosis? It's not available, not by what I find. I'd appreciate it if I were directed to her if she was in the position. I think it's intended to greatly reduce the competitiveness of the tourism service. The result? Yes, it's an increased compression in tourism. Then I begin to wonder if this might be a reflection of the government's professional policy, if it's possible to talk about a government where there's only one group speaking as if he's in the government and the others are just talking for themselves. Is the policy of the government or of the three categories that are united in the government to increase the compression in all? The result of action is highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers? Now it would be appropriate to discuss this with the budget bill, since it is intended to provide tax money to reduce the number of sheep and sheep farms and to work on the lamb's skin that we have now heard is not a mountain but a greater hill or something, so the supply we called after the analysis is not available. Suppose, though, that these actions will be as presented. Won't the result be an increase in agriculture compression? What exactly will be the effect of the ideas presented on the fishing grounds? Will they really bring in more money? Not necessarily. Will they increase structure in the fishing system? No, not necessarily. What effect will these ideas have? Increased conjugal compression in the fishing road. Is this government employment policy? And should I go up to a travel service to make sure that increased compression can also be achieved in tourism? ' I think this is an interesting question and something we're going to have to discuss at the council in spring because trying to figure out exactly what direction comes from this incontrovertible government is complex. It's complicated. But by digging into the data and trying to understand exactly what these three different categories seem to agree on very little, at least up to the actions being taken to aim for increased compression in all sectors. They don't aim to expand innovation and research, because they're not supposed to be stronger. They do not aim to build up knowledge society, knowledge - working roads, as this is not in harmony with the obvious needs of the colleges, which are fundamental institutions of that knowledge community. They are running a job policy, which is shown in budgets, by talks, and by a publication with the spokesmen of these three categories, aimed at expanding sector compression, in primary work, in no development, complete resolution in innovation, research, and knowledge fields. This is the result. And I haven't even begun to talk about creative articles. When we look at the culture and art that come out of this budget bill, I think a lot of people are gonna freak out. It's just a place of desolation, looks like I, on the budget bill. Nothing's being added. Then I can't let it pass to mention high school in the end. This is a way of confirming the policy presented in the financial program. It is a betrayal of the promise made by the former government that one - sided decision to shorten high school would not lead to the removal of funds from the high school system but would be used to increase quality. All I say to governments who take such little note of the statements previously made: How exactly will these governments build trust in society? How exactly will these governments go to make up the better conversation that lies ahead when the promises are betrayed in less than a year, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u75	A respectable president. I have to say something. Senator on the innovation plans. All I wanted to do was continue the tax discussion as an equation device and as a top priority. Minister spoke of earlier. He said that this is not necessarily an equation device but that the goal is to put a burden not on the worst, it's not a weight put on the worst, says that it's a social and equal minister, so they can't live under tax laws that are present. To me, it just sounds like the same thing, taxes as an equation device, and making sure they're not overdone to the worst. Then I wondered why we don't have a broader taxpayers, which really means that we can, in a much easier way, change who draws the wagon. When we find ourselves in a certain slow economy, it does not affect everyone equally, but then we can set the tax system in such a way that one who is very good at that condition pulls the wagon for a little while until he sees better. I wonder what. A senator and a chief. Ministers are not really talking about the same thing, just using different words. At least I don't hear any difference between this and just different words about what's an equation, and I don't want taxes on the worst people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u76	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Pirata, Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, especially for giving an answer. I thought the purpose of this discussion was to have a word exchange over policies and currents in the budget bill. When suggested, based on facts and reason, it is based on evidence. Senators of the greater part and the highest. Ministers do not trust in talking to a person about these indications, do not trust in discussing, for example. The above claims that innovation and science are being greatly increased, as well as studies that fail, make me sad. So thank you. A senator for trusting in the discussion. Is this a question of a different understanding of words? No, I don't think so, not just. First, if we don't perform this equation function and we don't have a variety of revenues, then the system is not prepared to cope with trauma. It is the economic argument that may not necessarily have anything to do with the equal role. It is only about the spread of the stocks, not necessarily in a more righteous way, but in a larger way, so that when external fluctuations do not have such an impact on government income. It's number one. That's what I was reading from your bill. Minister. It is also pointed out in the Generals Research Committee that if we have reduced the number of income stocks, the system is less likely to fail. Then there's the equation itself, and what I'm pointing out is what we really don't agree on and have nothing to do with words. We may agree that the lowest income should be tax-free or that it is the least tax paying, that we agree on. We also agree that the balance of pay is relatively high. We can't deny it. But we do not address the division that is in a position of property on the land. There we disagree. It has nothing to do with words being understood. We just disagree. I don't feel that politicians always allow themselves to talk about the equation of the tax system, but they leave the part of the image that turns into a division of wealth and possessions, as if it had nothing to do with it. If we look at global economic developments today, that is where the difference is growing, not in conventional wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u77	A respectable president. I think that anyone looking at history should be able to figure out how bad the consequences of community error have on society itself. It seems that there is a fundamental difference, and what we need to be careful of is, in fair terms, a greater tax burden from certain groups than others. It's definitely something we're stirring up about. After all, it's in the best interests of those who have the worst in the community, and as such, according to the definition of an equation, no matter how you apply it. With the discussion here, we'll have the bill with no super long notice for the 1st. It's a little hard to go through the bill and realize the context in all of this. This makes 1 Corinthians 15: 33 a part of the world's history. is just so important to fit our understanding of what is being presented in the bill. Then we need the opinions of everyone in this room, not just the government opposition, but the members of the council. I encourage them to participate in telling us what is their understanding of what is being presented in the budget so that we can have this discussion and get a better understanding of it. As we're trying to figure out here, is this a conceptal error, or are we talking about the same thing? I'll use at least this discussion in order to learn from other members of the council is very necessary because we have not had enough time to study the bill completely through and reach all its connections. But together, we have done quite well, and we can make these connections together. This is our chance to do so in 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. Yeah, I understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving, and that's why we're having this discussion, isn't it? I mentioned before high school specifically, and because we're talking about the equality of the tax system, we have two equations that are best paid, that's the tax system and the improving system on the other hand, and on the other hand, it's the education system. We have heard that high school is in the position of disabled high school students who don't even get room in high school. Fat students don't get room in high school. We think it's okay? Should we listen to it and be told that there's enough money in high school? Do you think that this may have been related because the promise given a year ago was made that the money to be returned to high school despite the shortitude would remain in high school? This, of course, is a matter of concern. I think it's weird, I think it's special. Government officials don't even want this phrase about high school and college, science, research, innovation, and tourism. All key elements. Then you read about it in newspapers that they don't really agree. We've talked a little bit about understanding the role of the Generals. I have the understanding of the role of the Generals that I want to know if people are content with the policy of education in the nation. I'd like to know if people really think, the members of the Parliament who are paying the budget that supports the government that puts it into place, that this is the right way to develop when it comes to the construction of the nation. You are told that you must now be careful in structure. When are we going to start building up the school system, the same school system that opened its doors when everything went down here? When the tax system was neglected to cope with the trauma, when the economy was not prepared to cope with the trauma? The school system was ready, but obviously it is not supposed to be ready again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u79	V.E.G. President. Not surprisingly, the budget bill that is currently under consideration as we consider how a financial plan was handled at the General Parliament. The idea is to increase legal discipline, increase awareness with the aim of maintaining financial stability. You see, stability is a key factor when it comes to government matters, for it serves the whole community. The one here has an understanding that we need to be patient with the structure of wood. We need to be careful that the economy does not overheat, but making sure that the economy does not overdo it does not mean that we can or must not do anything at all. On the other hand, choosing the right parts of the country for implementation is a key key to public projects. The Agency's report, published in some parts of the world, distinguishes economic growth through parts of the country. The report shows that economic growth varies considerably between areas. In the West, for example, it is negative by about 6% during the 2008-2015 season. What's surprising in the upcoming budget bill is at the top. The secretary of finance did not seem to have followed more of the legal committee's pay on the financial programme in spring, where he remains again in the rise of the merit tax of tourism to higher tax levels, although it is known that such increases will likely adversely affect the survival of people living outside the southwestern corner and the Southland. Less tourism companies will also be shocked at these changes. This occurs at the same time as the amount of dollars has grown by tens of percent, and the number of tourists is contracted, especially in certain areas, in weaker areas. The secretary of finance, on the other hand, rejects a return fee. So, according to the President's permission, a greater part of the budget is said: ▪ The greater portion suggests that the advantage and failure of providing a passenger's return to the country will be detailed. The cost of a return may vary from month to month, the highest when tourists are mostly but lower in the second period of the year. Special attention should be given to the use of international flights other than the Copenhagen airport with different comets and thus contribute to the spread of tourists across the country, thus providing additional support for travel services in so-called zones (Howls). V.E.G. President. I don't know that this detailed analysis has been conducted. But the highest. Unfortunately, a minister of finance, who is not in the hall right now, may be able to instruct me about it later if he receives this message. Tax, tax, tax, tax, tax. You might think that tax increases were the main terms of the government's election, given the emphasis of the budget. This is remarkable, given the independence party leading the government. This category has not been known to want to raise taxes. On the contrary. What the hell happened? Do members of the Independence Party accept this new approach to taxes? An increase in taxes on fuel is another matter that is worthwhile. The budget bill says there's a chance of raising both the taxes on gasoline and diesel oil. It is a so - called green tax. This is what one would like to do without identifying the impact of these increases, especially the effect that the rise will have on the multiples of stability. What about the crescent shrinkage that will increase fuel, for example, for micro-elder - pensioners who are now receiving this 20,000 k. increase? What about the index, the increase in housing, which takes on a lot of people? No, there's no inspection. In an interview with the Morning Press yesterday, President General Runólfur Ólafsson of the FIB magazine stated: In addition to the value of supplementary taxes, the increase in diesel is estimated to be 21 cents per litre, but the litre of fuel will rise by nine cents. If we use it only normally, [sic] this may be an additional amount of 30 to $60 for each family, who owns one car. Because of such expenditures, it is necessary to earn an income of about 50 to 90 thousand dollars for the increase. It tells itself that such an increase will quickly eat up 20 o'clock. K. increase in pensioner patients as well as increasing pressure in future state-of-the-view. That fact is indeed a threat to stability. Another factor that seems not to be taken into account is that not all people sit at the same level when it comes to using vehicles that represent energy sources other than gasoline or diesel oil. Many occupational devices run on diesel oil. That fact will not soon change. What are those who must cross mountain roads due to their work and/or to attend basic services, public service? Loading centres are not on every corner of the country. The government proclaims an endless rise in taxes during the stocks left in the state is far higher than expected under a financial program. The remainder is no less than 44 billion, 19 billion more than expected, with substantial lack of income. We candidates did not vote for a spring financial program, and that was for good reasons. We wanted to go another way, a better way. Our way is by continuing to stress subsidies in order to cover interest costs, but still yield less. That's what we wanted to use for the construction of infrastructure, such as transportation, health and education systems. The increase in expenses now shown in a budget bill to these factors is mainly made clear by the pay and investments of real estate, i.e. the core of the National Hospital and the House Education. So, concrete. V.E.G. President. My speech time is now drawing closer than I want before I want to discuss the issues of health care and how the government's policy toward it is reflected in the budget bill. In an interview with the State Radio today, Svanhvít White Jakobsdóttir, director of the Health Care Center of the capital, said that the budget is a great disappointment and that the government is thus not under orders to promote health care. According to the bill, contributions to health care in the country are to rise by 200 million. By permission of the President, I would like to quote directly to the interview. It says: Since the current year, if it is estimated that 40 million are to be built up by psychological and mental - health services that are truly well - known to us, there should be 40 million available for health care. However, it must be noted that the change in health care is that there are two new clinics. They are not the ones that are stored up, to be expected, to be known as Svanhvít. It also points out that it seems that to finance new stations would be financed by health - care costs. Then a medical project with reference service has been added to children who need a specialist doctor and demand more rapid service. We fishermen agree that it is important to keep paying off the debt of state funds and thus cover interest costs. At the same time, however, infrastructure needs to be added, such as in education, transportation, and welfare systems. If your infrastructure is allowed to fail, it will damage Iceland's competitiveness for a long time. To this end, it is my conclusion that the budget is as if it now seems to be a problem. On the other hand, I hope for it. The budget - and I hear it all over the news - that there is a parapolitic will for making reforms on the bill. That this group of members of Parliament can make the bill necessary with the intention of maintaining a reasonable economy, guided by stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u80	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned some points of interest to pause and cover. On the one hand, it's consistent. As I mentioned in my talk, stability is the ability to change and adapt to changing circumstances. Stability is not something we can rely on that society itself is changing so rapidly that if we remain in the same condition, we will be out - of - date very early. I wanted to see if it could be the right understanding for me and the same understanding for others, if that was the case. A senator could answer that question. The tax policy of the Independence Party was also discussed, depending on the circumstances. A senator not known for raising taxes but for reducing taxes. I don't agree with that. I say they only raise taxes anyway. There are certain expenditures that influence the provision income instead. How pleasant it is to compare it with a talk presented by Prime Minister on the provisional income and to have it as a measure of what was published in an ASI report! Third, worded "wow." A senator to select the right parts of the country for building up. I find this very interesting, because at the voter rate I've only been to elections, I've heard questions about whether this road and this dam and something like that, and then everyone will answer yes and you know that all over the country will answer yes to the same questions. We know we can't do all that. Why don't we normally work on a better organization so that there's more for building, more fortification, and equally uninhabited structures instead of always jumping back and forth, to make some hole in a mountain here and a stone wall in a canyon there, randomly as to why something happened? Couldn't we just be more predictable about it instead of falling into a ball of ground? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, stability is not the same as the same condition. Stability involves keeping a balance, i.e. balance to reduce increasing inflation and, therefore, loss of power of money. Instead of using our power of stability, we may want to use our words in a balanced way. However, confusion does not match the fact that the same condition is impossible. Of course, things change in nature. Land components, transportation improvements. I've got that information from the Roadmaker, and I think that's what. A senator has also received these, that transport projects do not necessarily need to be prosecuting. There we may be able to relate this to economic growth, as mentioned earlier. Of course, there has to be some kind of prejudicial experience. An experiment in a transport program is made to create a plan for the next year. But as we discussed in our case in connection with a financial plan, we came across it, and we've discussed it in the past. The budget, that there does not seem to be a connection between the transport programme and its financing in financial planning and the budgets we now discuss. There's a huge hole between us. It is our task to link so large and important plans with the funds available for each occasion so that we can make practical plans, based on something permanent, not to meet, and this with unpredictable consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u82	President. I just agree with what. A senator on the transport program. We must take it only to an effective degree and discuss it directly in connection with financing. When we create a transport program, we are to finance it at the same time and to take up this discussion together with a financial plan, expected. In spring, I called out for an intelligent platform to discuss these factors at the same time. We actually draw a transport plan into the financial program. We need to keep this whole, so we don't have a new election situation that we can't afford a transport plan and that we all have a lot of money. I am glad to hear of a common understanding of stability. That's what I'm saying, too. It's good to break it down. This is not a resolution, of course not, and we are in the right places. I think we have a similar understanding of this concept in terms of government financial legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u83	Mr. President. Hv. A senator pointed to me for a report on due charges. This report has been compiled at the Ministry of Economics and Economics. On the other hand, it was found to have small targets, which will be completed in all the following days and will then be sent to the finish. The budget board. All I want to do is talk to the senator about my agreement that we need to take a closer look at the different impact of the nation's economy. I think it's very important that we get better information out there than we've had and gather that kind of information. On the other hand, I don't agree that on the e.g. with tender invitations, we will see that in many areas, the main reason is that donations are often over costs, which are based on the anticipated experience of the Roadmaker. It's not quite as good to talk about excitement. I can totally agree with the argument that now the economy is more flexible than before because we are part of the European Economic Area. It's easier to import workers than it used to be. It may be more like the devices that bind us, but I agree with the senator that this needs to be considered much more carefully so that we can take better control of this in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u84	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a very good answer, and it's good to know that this report is on its way. I am excited to read it and to see how it all looks. I'm glad we're also agreed on analyses of impact through different parts of the country. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity first. A minister was so kindly opposed to me and asked him about his opinion on what we discussed just earlier, on the increased integration of transport plans and financial programmes, as well as on the planned rise in taxes on fuels presented in the budget, whether a thorough analysis of the impact of these increases was made. We know, for example. That this will affect the index, it will affect the price-separated loans, it will impair the power of the people to buy. I've already been through this in two speeches and I'd like to have a conversation about this, how we're talking about these increases and whether there's a diagnosis. Because it's a big deal, and it's just a small part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u85	Mr. President. The price effect of this is estimated to be about 0.1% or 0.11%. I asked that these calculations be reviewed again for a discussion here, but this is what I'm about to get there at this moment. I want to say the bottom line. Minister of Social Affairs and Equality, who declared that he was not especially in favor of tax increases in general. Neither am I. On the other hand, I'm willing to discuss changes in the tax system. I'm sure it's not the best tax system in the world we have now. I think we should take advantage of this opportunity this fall to discuss what changes in the tax system could be considered. Do we want to lower our taxes in one area and move them to another area? I don't see this financial bill as some sacred book that can't be changed. It is the very role of the Parliament to review the budget and to make the changes most of the council considers reasonable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u86	A respectable president. Yes, the price effect is 0.2%, barely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u87	0.1%, bed rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u88	0.1%, yes, bed rest due to increased fuel. I suppose that's what. The financial committee will consider these increases at their meetings in the near future and will consider these, as mentioned earlier, also by other factors. I agree with the highest. Minister, of course we should be open. That's exactly what happened. Gunnarsson Of course, our community is changing, and as politicians, we need to be open to that change. I'm afraid of developing and doing better. That's our job. But as for the tax system, and I think we agree there too, we need to be very careful. IRS changes are a threat to stability. That's a fact. We do not want the cherries dream to rise on the hind legs. [[The president calls.]] We have been able to keep the inflation relatively low and stable for some time now, and I suppose we would agree that this is how we want it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's been an interesting conversation here. I had a word with the minister of the last council on the challenge of urban development, road routes, and so forth, and suggested that they be identified. That work was to be started. I think it's only good if we see such things. Of course, we should always watch things, whether financial or otherwise, with our shades covered. But I'd like to ask you what. A senator's view of the tax issues that have been discussed here. It was 7.2% interest rate last year. It has not been considered wise to reduce taxes during a year's trip, as we now live. Rather, should we be in debt to the need for subsidies to stimulate the economy and stimulate demand, that there is the possibility of reducing taxes. Now we'll see that the combination has been drawn together. Government incomes are down. The value tax has been delayed in the tourism service to 9 billion. Perhaps because of the increase in expenses set down here, the problem may not be as large. I'd like to think about it with the senator how we should proceed. It's not like I wanted to treat that money the way I wanted to do it. I would also like to try to collect more in order to improve the interests of those who need it, such as putting more money on health care and all that we've been discussing. I wondered where she wanted to carry down. Because I agree that this is a burden in the country, although these are taxes that are relevant to climate, it is only one part of many. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking where she thinks it's better to carry down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First of all, tax increases on fuel. Of course, we are to look to green taxes for long periods of time. I'm not against that kind of tax. We agree that the climate is a major issue, and we Icelanders need to contribute to it. But I don't think it's time to go to so much tax increases on fuel now, at least not before we have considered whether it is possible to meet people who are unable to move completely to gasoline and diesel. How will we try to meet them, using so - called counter measures? I heard why. A candidate speaks in a talk earlier, and she received the very question, What kind of countermoves? I heard she didn't have a straight answer on her hands. Neither have I. But so far, I don't think this change is timely. The discussion may be discussed in a financial committee, but perhaps there are ideas on the surface that we see fit to do them well. But it just needs to be examined. The way I would have liked to go in the state's affairs is the one I studied in my speech earlier, the way the candidates spoke in a financial program in spring, i.e. We wanted to take advantage of this change, a larger portion of it, for building wood. Don't give as much back to interest as you owe. I'll answer it again in a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. Surely this is a steep rise; I'm not going to belittle it. I agree with what. A senator's need to be considered. That's exactly what I asked for. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the flight as a public transportation. It's a bit of a double standard if you think about it because it's a very contaminated road trip, the flight. Even if you can understand the other end of it, people can't get between places unless they use the flight. Paying $50,000 for flying back and forth is absolutely unbearable. But a financial and business committee is expected to review these revenues over a legal committee in some respects. I think it's important, when we talk about strengthening income companies and improving the income populations of the state, that at this time we build up. It is important to have something when the downturn becomes, for she will always be. Although we have said this for a while in the light of high economic growth, it is clear that we will ever dip. [[The president calls.]] Well, then it's better to have some rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u92	A respectable president. It's been interesting to observe this conversation, not just today, but to put it in touch with the conversation here last night. In fact, when it comes to all aspects of this new system that attract financial, financial, and financial policies, I find it quite interesting to observe the discussions at the Hall. To tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised at all of this, there may be nothing new, I'm often surprised at many things and I'm learning a lot of things, but it's somehow that it's like we've pushed ahead of ourselves at all levels of this serious political discussion about where we want to go with this community. This spring everything was to be revealed in financial policy and financial programs during the fall, and we were to discuss this when the budget was due to appear. Now it's on and we're not quite realizing this, it's just some discussion, that's what it looks like - and we shouldn't just take it next time? It's like we're wondering ahead of us a ball that we're never ready to record. I'm a little surprised at this, but what I'm surprised about is the laws of my own. - Yeah, yeah. A senator, a conversational speaker, may be fine because a conversation often leads to better results. Hv. The members of the board are often engaged in talking with other government officials through the media. I read in the morning newspaper just what I read. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, with permission of President: The plans presented in the fiscal bill on the acquisition of state funds and the changes in taxes and taxes here for the increase are that they must make changes in the affairs of the council. This is a conversational case, actually taking place in the pages of the morning paper and not here in this hall, at least not yet. Maybe it would have been a good time. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is supposed to respond to the highest. Secretary of finance earlier or less, huh? The chairman of the financier's budget, makes these comments clearly available. Perhaps that would have given us something further in this discussion. It must be said at the moment that the discussion is a rather meaningless conversation, especially if we put it in touch with yesterday's discussion. Not long since this was an election. I'll be talking about this - and the senators will just have to endure it because I'll be talking about this throughout the term - where all political parties stood in front of voters and tried to win the voters' favour: Choose me! Kiss me, I'm gonna build wood. I'm gonna put money in education, I'm gonna put money in the health system, I'm gonna make the worst of them better. Kiss me! Then we're here with the budget bill, first financial policy, then financial programs, and then a financial bill where none of this becomes a reality, but we still talk like it's all happening. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke yesterday, along with other executives, and again today as if all of this were happening. No matter how often it is pointed out that it is not, it just doesn't matter. It's just a matter of fact, I'm sure it's the best. Secretary of finance and other government officials. I've heard some executives talking about a situation that's really under control. It's just possible that this is happening in spite of the fact that the poor themselves say they're not. V.E.G. The minister of finance pointed to the nation's Castlight field and, including micropigs, at 20,000 dollars. is an enormous amount of money in the pocket of those with the lowest amount between their hands. I know the highest. The secretary of finance still does not as a politician have a responsibility? What were his mental connection in the Castlight? I'm going to be able to quote the chairman of Iceland's Quantum Alliance, which published today on the website of the Micro-Eternal Alliance the following words of the Supreme Court. Minister, with permission of presidents: With this message, the minister of finance has put into it the ugly attitude that is too large to be heard by money - poor groups to welcome any amount of money that is right. The experience for many is that a mole falls off the table of the rich; here you have a charity that will do you well. They're not some people in town talking. This is the proprietor of the micromanagement, chairman of the Quantum Community. I don't know how long it's gonna take. Ministers or anything. We're just gonna put our heads under, keep going, and we're gonna say, "Yes, I'm sure that's the way it is, we're just putting a lot of money in this and that. Yes, it is. It's just not like that. I can't stop wondering how some people are. Government staff speaking. I am not the best of children when it comes to complex financial and economic theories. I'm trying to learn. I listened to the highest. A minister of well - being once said that there should not be any tax increases now, he would not be particularly in favour, but it might well be considered if it was a different age. Is this really the economy we want to pursue, that if the year is worse, we need to start looking at tax increases, that if it comes in addition to a difficult economic situation, we can start to examine it, despite the fact that in itself a bill for financial gain has been specifically involved in the state's income base being weakened and warned against it? I just don't understand. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke here yesterday and gave a talk about his vision in the community, an inspired talk about where he would like to go with this nation. V.E.G. There, the prime minister spoke of the government's actions as having more than one quarter of a month in the hands. It may well be right by the highest level. Minister. It's just the best thing. However, I am concerned about those who have no money when it comes to passing a month, whether or not they increased slightly over the past month's match. This government is not concerned about those groups. There's no way to see the emphasis there. I listened to the highest. A financial minister reviews his view of society yesterday and has to admit that I had a bit of fun going with him on the journey he took us on. I was especially afraid that he was announcing that he would still be the minister of finance in 2050, which he was talking about, the highest. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President: ▪ We tend to expect that present conditions will last forever, even though experience will teach us that this is not the case. I agree with the highest. Minister on this. That's why I don't understand how much. A financial minister puts forward financial, financial, and financial initiatives based on the continuation of the situation, which is based on the continuation of the longest economic growth in history. In order to see that there is no particular qualification, he puts a special roof on his government spending so that if the years are bad - as his colleague in government, the highest. In fact, the prime minister has predicted that he will happen - is at the highest level. The minister of finance has bound his hands and the government to respond by placing a roof on the state budget as a percentage of GDP. I'm sorry - what kind of song is that? Time runs fast into a satellite age. I see I have 30 seconds left of my time. I'll have to come in later on on some more things I wanted to come in on. But the big lines in this bill are that the share of the combination has fallen rapidly and safely in recent years. Since 2013 it has decreased by 4 percentage points. This was in the conversation last night. That's 100 billion. What does this mean in human language, and in what way does the government continue? Detracting from public service is a progressive step. [[The president calls.]] And that's what you're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u93	A respectable president. It may not be surprising that the financial bill presented here is as poor as it is, because it is based on a government budget that belongs in the middlebox, not as approved by the General's resolution. But this is what we have to play out. I'd just like to review some of the reasons my associates in the General and Education Committee brought in to give them a financial programme to show how this piece has been done for the summer. You can see, you can look at certain mails, you can look at the opinions of a greater part of the General and Education Committee, the people in the management team, which made some comments to the Ministry about the payment of a financial programme this spring. It was earlier said that this government would take no note of statements made by previous governments. This may only be understandable because she pays little attention to her own statements, as well as to professional statements, experts, and members of the Parliament. Take, for example, a legal case, a large and important group with an estimated lack of 200 police officers in the country. By permission of the President: ▪ The more important part highlights the need for further funding to the police, including the U.S. due to the decrease in the number of police officers and increased stress. What happens on the bill? The overall budget for the seminar is estimated to be 14.8 billion and is rising by 154 million from the current budget. This is a 1% rise that may be sufficient to keep missing, like two police directors' offices, so that there is no need for launching. Because that's what was said in the reviews of a spring financial program, it would have to be dismissed from police officers if it was observed. Now these officers may not be required to resign, but new ones will not be hired to meet the increased need. Let us consider another group of cases related to law enforcement, immunity. By permission of the President: Thus, the ◯ The more part feels that funding for the Agency should be considered. - i.e. National Guard - ◯ and emphasizes the importance of Iceland's National Relations Service to maintain a proper service in which safety is at sea and abroad is at stake. ◯ Well, you see, the government isn't a smart-ass, is it? It's important to the security of the country. What happens? The overall budget for the suit is increasing 307 million from current budgets, with the exception of changes in salary and prices. Of these, 100 million go to buy long - awaited rescue helicopters, and 243 million are the result of a growing showdown fund funded by special resources. In other words, it is still going to rent the TF sheep to the Mediterranean, so it does not serve the safety of Iceland. It is used simply to beat the fact that the National Guard does not get the money needed. So next year, it will continue on course that two months a year, the goose cannot afford to keep ships out but lay them tied to docks and that six months will not be possible to carry out helicopters and search services at sea. This is a fact which was pointed to the payment of a spring national budget, which points to a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee, and the Minister does nothing. As for the TFF, it would have been nice to have her in the summer when the ship became nearly southwest of the country, but the helicopter was south in the Mediterranean, so we needed Dani to help. It went better than you could watch, but it shows how much more business is funded by special income, as it is called on the budget, has a direct bearing on the safety of people in the sea. Consider the third point. In fact, they were listening to more of the General and Education Committee. It's foreign matter. More part said, by permission of the President: As a result of the group development, it is important to consider whether plans for the number of trustees are realistic. This is precisely because the minister did not listen during the winter when he developed a national financial program and assumed that trust attendance would be 700 in the year, and the number was reduced thereafter. On the contrary to what the Ministry of Justice said, they would reduce the number of years from year to year. Last year, applications were 1,132. The U.S. National Institutes of Foreign Affairs and Department of Justice expected 1,700How2,000 applications this year and the next year. Instead of listening to this, the Ministry decided to gossip at 700. That is why hundreds of millions have to be added to the lawsuit. Not because the expenses were unexpected but because they did not listen to those who provided them. Most of the parts also say in their opinion: To a large extent, because it is difficult to predict how it develops, it is uncertain, including due to the number of shelterers But it was a homemade uncertainty. This was a uncertainty created by the minister's ignoring expert tip. What about the high school that has been mentioned in these discussions? Of them it says, by permission of the president: The ◯ The more part stresses that the funds generated in the high school system due to reduced study periods for the student's test, i.e. the savings, the usefulness of the shoes itself. That's what a whole lot of things say in the spring. At that time, the national budget had been reduced by hundreds of millions of dollars. They were taking the savings out of the system. In view of what was expected in the spring plan, what is the change in budget? It's zero. It is the same number submitted before high school and spring, although more of the General and Education Committee, just as we in the smaller section, suggested that this coin be increased and used to promote schools. On top of that was the maintenance Scorpio at a grade four-fold, as we discussed in spring. Finally a few words about college before I'm out of time. It's where I'm like the other storms agree with most of the General and Education Committee from spring. It says, by permission of the president: The ◯ The more part highlights the need to consider the university funding and how to improve their status. It's different from colleges. It's different from the spring plan. The university is increasing by 44 million. It's not zero, no, it's 0.1%. An increase of 0.1% to the university level at the same time as any proposed increase from the last budget goes to the beautiful Icelandic language. This means that there is a complete deterioration of the university level under this government. In fact, the release of the majority of the part appeared in the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee who proposed to review access control into the university, since the best way to obtain contributions to the university to the average OECD state, in terms of the greater part, to reduce the number of college students, is to reduce the education of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time that the greater part does not listen to us in the opposition, does not listen to the nation, does not listen to experts or organizations, then might not surprise us. Ministers don't even listen to their own senators. [[The president calls.]] [[President (NLM): The president asks members of the Parliament to observe the time of public speaking.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to police issues. The financial program provided nine goals, or measures, for the improvement of law enforcement. There are a lot of things there, for example. There is an electronic flow of data between institutions, improved police equipment, defense and security equipment from terrorist defenses as well as the same. What we complained about in the financial program was that the expense column was empty. The cost of these measures had not been determined. In the 2018 budget, however, we now see that there are 400 million donations from the state's funds to the business. In other words, the cost has already been identified, I guess. But that is, as far as I see it, there is no fulfillment of these goals or measures set out in the budget to divide the costs. I can claim my knowledge of things, such as information systems, etc, that 400 million are not enough for these actions. No way. The objective is in many years, but the cost analysis is totally empty. It should be under the law to tell us how far we can reach these goals this year. It's just one example. A senator mentions the problem we have from the budget to the budget, this jump between which is not explained. There's no data to tell us what's going on. So, what do these 400 million go for? Is each of these projects being discarded? Are they sufficient to do something about them? Or what? [[The president calls.]] All I wanted was a more detailed analysis of these indications that were presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u95	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer, especially for pointing out the goal in this chapter. When it comes to law enforcement, it should have been very easy to move the plans of law enforcement into a financial program. That would have been the professional and natural thing, if you'd thought. Except: In a financial program, three of the four objectives of a law enforcement program are identified. Because the goal to define the need for funding is probably something to the highest level. Secretary of finance doesn't want to do anything at the same time as cutting money to the police on a nail. I think the senator is a little overcrowded to the Minister to say there's supposed to be 400 million more to the police. If we look at the disintegration: Yes, there is a temporary 400 million contribution, then a 20 million, another increase of 357, and a decrease of 124, and then there are prices and reimbursements, which means that the Internet is getting 154 million more. That's a hell of a lot less than 400.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this indication. This is a bigger context. It is very nice to consider these changes in the frame of the table that describes the budget range of 48 million. This is the problem. When I go over these projects that the law is going to take in the financial program, it is not difficult to tell the cost, at least to shaken at a minimum of tens of millions and, in fact, less proportion than that. It should be easy to get the costs and be able to connect them; there is no better link from these projects, this action, to exactly what is being financed. As I say, I haven't had enough time to make all these connections. That's why I'm asking. A senator who had considered this topic a little better, since he is a member of the Committee, whether he sees these connections from the financial program that are not costly; it is empty; it is not even stated within the frameworks as in most other topics, which are quite as bad in some way because it gives you an empty answer. I'm asking if he can see any connection from this operation to the budget in any way and maybe have some idea of what kind of operation we're going to be in for this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u97	In the past, presidents would like to ask members of the Parliament to guard their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u98	Madam President. Yeah, I'm sorry I didn't have any legs on my tongue before. The senator continues to ask about goals and measures and cost analysis, which was merely in the financial climate picture. This was pointed to in the comments received during springtime. For example, I refer to what the businessman in the capital area pointed to; he considered the goals set out in that language; he did not understand where it came from. There was no consultation with institutions, it was nothing in line with what had been discussed between the Ministry or the institutions of the past losses, it was somehow out of the open air. Nobody knows where. Always this is done without cost, and it is always--what was it they said? That these would be rather ambitious goals, not to mention the very essence of the solution of the group of languages. So there were goals that would be easy to put into words and that could be measured in some way, but they were not necessarily related to the main tasks of the media. This is just another example of how much handbacking is in all this process, from financial policy through the plan and into the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u99	Madam President. I don't usually have a very good relationship with a printer. That's the 2018 financial bill we're talking about here. A financial bill is one of the most important documents in every government as we all know it is to discuss the most important political document proposed at the World Congress, along with a financial program to the next five years that the government of the right groups proposed in spring. It's not a small responsibility, but neither here nor in financial policy for the next five years that we were introduced to us is politics, as it were. This is not politics, which contributes to real reform in the interiors of the nation, which the government groups praised and announced for elections, this is politics, and is a lack of progress. What do we find here? At the same time as there is an emergency at a housing market, young and less money - rich people on less property than they had in a decade ago, and it is far harder to get a roof over their heads than before, here are the arrangements for housing that the Minister is paying off but only for negotiations in the last agreements. Then there are health issues, but unfortunately there is a slight increase in the budget for special hospitals, which falls under the public part of the hospital service, such as the hospital's operations. The government's minister has talked a lot about how soon a shovel will be taken to overthrow a house for the treatment center of the Land Hospital, which is well and well needed. But the most important thing in hospital service is just what is to be done in hospitals, the public service to patients assigned to the State. It has been less difficult for the Ministers to promote and promote specific hospital services, as the budget contains additional contributions to expert physicians, to privateised specialists, to Mrs. President, who cannot afford to consult, unfortunately. Thus, despite public opposition to increased emphasis on private health care, there is an increase in the contribution to health care. What political policy is ignoring the overwhelming majority of the public's desire to promote acceptable public health care in behalf of all but not in behalf of those who can afford special care? The people of the country's request for adequate public health care is ignored, Madam President. It's certainly seeing a few million dollars. increase in donations to the health care provider. That is 40 million. K. ... aapplication. However, based on the extent of the government groups, it was strongly emphasized that health care should be the first stop and the main support of the health care system, it is clear that contributions to health care have not been raised in any way according to these declarations. Even now, the director of the capital health care, the largest health care of the country, believes that the government has betrayed the promise to promote health care and that the proclamations of the government here will not last at all. It's not weird. The budget that was to increase so much is 200 million and remains unchanged from the current year on. Unchanged. It is a tremendous disappointment, to say the least of the disappointment, to the health care of the capital area, and to its users. And there are two new clinics in the capital area. The task of health care, such as the reference service for children who need a specialist doctor, becomes more difficult to deal with. The government's information on promises to promote health care is not in this bill, Madam President. Then it's aging service. That financial bill is still missing. Plans for the construction of nurses for the elderly are very far away from what is needed when a nursing mother is growing. Silencing materials are served in a bill for financial purposes. There is no mention here that the government intends to raise the total income of the disability pensioner. There is nothing in this bill that suggests that income limits should be raised or paid for housing benefits. The financial and economic minister has talked about the good decision it is to raise payment on a 280-point pensioner. K. ... intoa total of 300 of you. K. in the next month at the next year, counting the highest. Minister it will remember much for that group. It's the highest message. Secretary of the budget, for the people who are complaining about the 280 you're talking about. K. During a month, it was incredibly important to get an additional 20 of yours. K. is nothing but a very negative attitude toward the poorness of income in society. How to feed on a total of 300 yards. K. a month? I don't see how that's going to be possible. In addition, this dramatic rise is covered by 6,700 dollars. by tax --all 6,700 bucks. which will be added to 280 you. K. per month. That'll make the best of it. Minister of public. How can the highest. When these words are dropped, do financial ministers look at people's faces? Who, then, is this 44 billion for? leftover? Might it be possible to make use of some of it to increase payment for a pensioner? Might it be possible to use some of him to contribute to the university, which only sees darkness in its business and education? Or service to older people or to those who are children? Could these billions be used to trust the welfare systems that children and other communities rely on, much less here than in neighboring lands? What are these budgets for? Not for the groups I've mentioned here. Absolutely not. Not to keep the promises mentioned here before elections. It is a bill for the budget of the rich and not for the low income. This is not the financial bill for young people or the threat of income. This is a bill for the more prosperous.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u100	Madam President. Hv. A senator pointed to me because I thought it was important that the terms of those who were least improved were not. I thought it might have worked out a lot of things. I talked about the changes made in the social insurance law last year that a quarter off the dollar. It was so that the people who had gathered themselves up to the age of 50 to 60 C.E. K. In pension rights, no more was paid from social security than were those who had not collected. That's what's made up. At the same time, fortunately, and approved by all members of the council, it was decided to raise the money of social security for those who are alone from numbers at the time. 240 to 250 thousand this year and 300 grand next year. I have received mail from people who have that salary, and of course it's a low income for many; I don't make it any less. I've got mail from people who say, " I need to think about every cent. ' I have to think about all my expenses. I'm not sure I'm going to get every thousand more bucks. I've never said it was a lot of money, but I've told you it's a lot to remember when people have little to play. We're not supposed to belittle it. How important it is that we try to make the most of the money available to those who need it!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u101	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for this thought, but perhaps I don't fully understand whether there was a question in my mind. True, it is true that for some, 20 of you are remembered. K. in a month much, but in reality, this is not 20 of you. A.J., it's $6.700. by tax for people with 280 points. K. in between your hands every month to support yourself. When people face the fact that this is an increase that would benefit them most and that has mentioned between the hands, I feel simply - and I think more than I agree with it, including the chairman of Iceland's Institute of Micromanagement - this is an action that can hardly be boasted of. Here, we simply need to do better. If the government fund has its billions left, surely it can be done better. There must be something better for this group. I understand, I think, which one is the highest. The minister of finance is going to say that this is a noble operation and that it will benefit many, but the fact is that there is a huge amount. I think we're at the highest. The secretary of finance must agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u102	Madam President. I wish for it. A senator will not speak to me of a noble operation. I don't think I ever used that wording. Besides, I'd like to correct it; I think this is a mess. A senator gathers the tax of the money as well as the rest. That will be between 12 and 13 of you. K. which are likely to remain of the amount due to an increase of approximately 37%. Still, it is a small sum, yes, it is true. I know a lot about people who don't make much money. I can see that the pension system, which we can be proud of, is holes in for those who started to pay for it 30 or 40 years ago for various reasons. It was reduced because there was some very relaxed fruitage. It was so that people could not pay all the wages. Pensions were much lower than they are now. All of this we know. From this we must make it right. It is our common responsibility to try to ensure the security network we want the social security system to be. We're trying to build the pension system. From the middle of the next year, the pay will be 15.5% of the pension system. It should ensure approximately 70% of the pay in pensions for those who pay all the time, but it does not help those who are now in pension. We can agree on this. I don't want my words turned around to belittle the people on those low incomes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u103	Madam President. It was certainly not my intention to turn from the top words. Minister; I apologize if the interpretation has been made. It may be right to correct what I said earlier that I had a conversation about the rise in social security by 4.7% of the population of 6,700 bucks. every month; but 20 ys. K. which have been proclaimed here, like the Minister of the Supreme Minister. Come on, it's about 12 to 13 you're on. K. per month. And there's also another factor worth bringing up here in the second answer, there's child - growth improvements that are getting a lot fewer and fewer under this budget, which will continue to reduce their expenses, now about 2 billion if I don't break down. Despite increasing financial power, child - growth rates are an extremely important means of earning money, not of poverty, as the right categories of Iceland's government sees; unfortunately, they do. But at the same time as the highest. The minister of finance has declared that he is concerned about reducing his birth rate. The reduction in child - welfare is just one of the main sources of taxation that has increased considerably over the last 18 years. So it will be interesting to know why the ultimate. The secretary of finance will take these measures when he is concerned about reducing his birth rate. That's strange to me. It's not an equation device. I thought it would be interesting to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u104	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion of the thousands mentioned earlier. I remember the day when you were a high school student. Now, for inflation, it is some 2 thousand dollars a day or so a day, which is just enough for food, transportation, and so on. I'd like to stop merely talking about private business in the health - care system. A senator talked about it. I've been wondering a question lately. If we have a public health system that can perform all services well and have a university hospital - we have the whole system from A156S. Let's just compare the discussion with the health talk in the countries around us, where one pays what is many cities, in English it's called'single-player system', and ◯multi-peyer system'. But it is generally said that it is much more practical and more efficient to have a ◯single-player system, where one citizen or state. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: Do doctors, nurses, or just medical staff usually need to be Kingdom personnel? Thus, the conversation in Iceland, when it is spoken of as a health system that is supposed to be publicized against private operating within this system called the ◯single-player system, or where the government pays for selling out services. My question is, Do doctors, nurses, and other health care professionals need to be Kingdom employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u105	Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Do doctors need to be government workers? That's a big question. As those of us who are satisfied with the need for special service within the public hospital service, we who are that way must have most specialists in the public hospital service, not that this group of doctors go into private business in town. This is now an old classic ideological differences. A senator points out here. It is the very essence of these budgets that is being added to expert cases outside public hospital services. Of course, we need expert doctors in the public ministry. It means that such physicians are then Kingdom workers, on our payroll, in order to minister to us when we need that service. I think and believe, it's my philosophy that the public needs to ensure by all means that, regardless of our economic situation, whatever our means of money, we all have the opportunity to enjoy public hospital service and the best available, a service that is not sub-funded, sub-fund, and well-fund, but is the very best service available. This means that we need to have as most specialist physicians who offer the best expert service in the public circle. Hope that this will answer some of your thoughts. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u106	A respectable president. I understand this answer: No, health care professionals don't need to be public staff. But, in the same way, it is extremely important that the public system be at least As good as offering the best service, doctors who do not work as public employees try to compete with what happens best. I'm just trying to figure out the balance between them. Hv. A senator points out that this balance is being disturbed. What's been happening in recent years with Iceland's Medical Insurance Convention with Doctors, is that it's been a one-way policy from the public system that makes it even worse. I wondered if we'd be better off if we had the discussion in this field instead of throwing between our private and public policy debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u107	President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. On the contrary, I'm gonna ask you why. A senator finds it normal to believe that the government guarantees private business in a town with increased donations to expert physicians. Whether it would be morally proper for the government to provide that special service in public hospitals instead of promoting it itself, the state itself, private business in town. That's what I think and have always considered to be unnatural instead of promoting the services available to all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u108	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget here. This bill is 600 pages, hardly. We'll have two days apart from sleeping hours to prepare. You put together a big question mark on the efficiency and quality of this discussion, and you can see some good changes in this, as may have been announced. It would have been nice to get this difference, much sooner. I've chosen two areas that are very serious. Thus, it is in the budget that science and competitive funds in research and knowledge are considered to be important in society, important social factors, that have been shown in the discussion as well, a clean cut compared to the 2017 budget. This is in the face of the need for technological development and e.g. climate-improvement tests. The same is true of research and agriculture. It contains e.g. Donations of cash with the condition that it can be returned if needed by the donor. You would have thought that the sector was the basis for a new way of working. That is what was said yesterday about the importance of research and science, which would be the basis for progress. Productions for the Creation Centres are reduced, as well as sponsors for innovation companies. Research at the university, all colleges rather, is cut down by 0.6%. That's not a big offense. Development Funds and application programmes are down, but new development is also involved. When all of this is taken up, it is obvious that these are completely unacceptable practices of making a budget bill for the current year's trip. Yet, there is light in the darkness. Increased donations are offered for research and innovation in fishing roads and tourism. Let us keep that in order. I believe this is confirmed, not only by the transfer of innovations and research to the Ministry of Education and Culture, but by almost no new injection to the jury, that he is being reconciled on the contrary to the need for an even more powerful scientific, research, and innovation than this point. That's obvious. Madam President. Rather, budgets are increased by 5%, or a total of 200 million, when it comes to the large mail we call nature protection, forestry, and land healing. These include contributions to the internal programme, e.g. all the funds for forestry and agriculture, for the implementation of environmental protection assessments and for the implementation of the state and use of the land as it is called. This is far from fine. The contributions to the so - called infrastructure are not sufficient to bind carbon or to improve the quality of agriculture. This is when you are raising a carbon tax, which is not an earmark for anything you can see. The donations for the guest living room of two national parks, Lake Bay and Snowfjords, are temporarily dropped and part of the contribution to the Hiklu Forests. All of a sudden, budgets are 200 million in a caption, but the use of 400 extra million available there is hard to find in the accompanying copy. Forest farming and land - healing contributions increase very little, and some, in fact, lower as do the State's forestry. So you're asking, "Why use more money?" Or is it just a piece of paper? Where's the bearing? Human resources for research and monitoring are virtually in place. A convention schedule should be made to increase the duration of the follow-up and the duration of the natural year. The projection of studies on the impact of low - volume climate change is dropped, but the amount of water - related risk assessment is high and volcanic eruptions disappear. What is the basis for this? Also, there is no end to working on export plans mainly because of volcanic eruptions and glaciers elsewhere than in the Cat's area. These plans are still missing in densely populated areas. At some point, they were in a low - speed process. Strengths to build up the infrastructure of electrical vehicles are not different or low where heavy effort is needed. In the past, energy sources, regardless of what this represents, are being destroyed. It's like something's been forgotten. The contribution to a local plant is reduced, with important data collected from climate change. It can be searched with bright light that direct donations for energy exchanges, such as experiments or commercially available hydrogen cars, increasing the integration of eco-friendly substances into fuels, or the testing of boat engines in cooperation with the mall called the Sea. Of course, such criticism can be resisted by pointing to action plans, but it does mean that countless things that have long since been started and that do not conflict with a global plan, including transport exchange and development, could simply be lacking. Obviously, a project that helps during the total work programme, discussed, and agreed, or should take some priority while the heat is rising in the mothers all over the world each year. But it's like someone forgot them. The government doesn't understand the call of time. It saves in litigators who are worth something else in the name of the public and community and starves currency that have long - term well - being and long - term security for the future. Now I'm talking about climate. Madam President. Other and more at the end of my speech. It is easy to get lost in their opinions on the crowns of this 600 - page page magazine here and where and where they are deeply involved in political matters, all of which are vital in daily life and that are reflected in financial laws. But it is as important and, in fact, often more important to look at and appreciate the ideologies behind this financial bill. In my opinion, it is in the case of this government an unacceptable and unfashionable combination of a certain inconsiderateness to the public's interests, blind to the increase in economic growth and increase in profits already available, and finally to the survival of this famous 10% of the population, which owns about 60% of all possessions. This, of course, is the essence of independence, which governs the government, no matter what other government groups do. V.E.G. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, said yesterday there was a limp under the right economy and the left well-being. I want to make sure this word games don't work. Or who would understand if I said that, on the other hand, I have left economy and right welfare? It's obvious that it's empty termicism. Of course, it is that both management and well - being are either right or left. The right ide crystals, e.g. in the term "employment of the industry. " It was mentioned in the talk of the highest. Prime Minister Bjarni son of Benediktsson, when he gave his speech on policy matters. What does that really mean? It means a firm sense of self - control, the self - control of the executives of the country's professional team who believe they can calculate and determine the economic needs of this same group. The remainder of this calculation can then be dosed to the employee and best if it divides between the two parts. It's a form of ideologies worth having in mind, and we call it right. Now let's turn this around and think about if we look at the salary and then professional companies would be paid accordingly. Would we call it left ideologies? I think so. These lines of conflict that are in the community color the budget and color our discussion at the council. Of course, it is simple, but it is always very important in this discussion of money and money, welfare and science, research, technology and the struggle against climate warming that at the right hand to left is the result of a clear ideologies that have become a long experience in Icelandic society and that we need to get rid of, i.e. the right course that has long colored society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u109	Madam President. If only a few minute facts, to put things in historical context. Last year the government's income was 229 billion dollars. more real than the turn of the century, in 2000, and the income tax of individuals over 58 billion higher. In the box last year, in terms of the price of the last year, under the end of the century, a tribute tax of over 48 billion was paid last year. Expenditures have also grown substantially, or about 220 billion. Also, interest rates for pension commitments are not included. According to the financial bill presented here, income taxation is expected to deliver over 178 billion dollars. It's nearly 17 billion bucks. increase from last year according to government account. High - esteem tax returns 21 billion more in income, and as a whole taxes on goods and services account for about 38.5 billion dollars. higher in the coming year, plans for the bill set out here, but it was in the past year. In total, tax and insurance costs are expected to be no more than 76 billion and 200 million more in the coming year than they did in the past year. This is about 900 you're talking about. K. to each family of four. And when making decisions about expenses, as well as when deciding how much weight we are going to put on the population, we should keep at least one fact in mind: The government's income on each family of four will be about 5.9 million. K. more real value in the coming year than it was in 2000 This is taken into account in terms of the change in population. That's 5.9 billion. in each family of four, nearly 500 of you. K. per month. We must ask: Have the people received better service for all this money? For those less than 500 of you. K. a month? I'm sure it's not, but it's not. But not everywhere. And it is clear to me that much of this money is wasted. Then I ask: " Will men really weigh the load? When you see these minute facts in your mind, at least it is difficult to do so. argues that the government fund is dealing with income problems. That there is a need to look for ways to increase income by adding to the burden of money with increasing pressure. I think it's the opposite. And I don't want anyone in this room to be surprised that I'm saying, "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This government's advisers are not to be surprised, not surprised by my government associates, and it's not supposed to surprise my good comrades in the government either. Everything I've said, everything I've written, everything I've been standing in the past few decades, can't lead to anything but to say, "Here and no farther." The huge increase in income in recent years suggests that the State is more likely to relax the clone, relax the tax pool. A great increase in money costs, heavy interest, along with the combination of property and debt, gives support to the claim that government business is less favorable today than it was a few years ago, ten, fifteen years ago. In other words, we are not making the most of our shared money in a requirement. And we are not using our country's common possessions as the most practical means of life, and our country has a requirement to do so. The solution, then, cannot be to increase expenses or increase taxes, add more weight to employees and businesses. Of course, we need to have a handsome way of dealing with the health system, building it up, and making sure that everyone is getting the best possible service regardless of the economy. We also have chores to do when it comes to the social security system, as I have done in the past. It is part of an older citizen, who laid the basis for the well - being I've had, and we all here, who has an advantage. We need to pay special attention to them. I've kept saying that I'm sorry that we haven't been able to make changes in the insurance system; inculcating partial reforms, taking up family values, and strengthening the financial situation of disability. I'm particularly concerned about young micro-organists who have little or even no rights in the general pension system. This work is being carried out. We need to place more money on it. But these funds are most likely present in the state's financial system, for we are not making wise use of the money but, at least, wasting it. But we can debate how much. It's all about making good use of money, it's about how we put priorities, build up systems, organize health care, etc. You see, I think we're guilty of it in this room, and others, we're not the only ones, giving too little attention to how the government's income and our shared assets are used in the joint work. As a result, the state of business is expanding and becomes less successful with each passing year. To solve the problem, it is easier to take steps to increase income, increase taxes, and find new income markets. Of course, we have work to do. We enjoy a lot of prosperity. The economic situation is mostly practical, economic growth 6% this year, 3.3% at the next one. Unemployment negligible, inflation less than we've seen in the past, etc. The prosperity is not without the challenges. I'm sure there'll be trouble with contracts. At least not simple. And it cannot be expected that tourism will be the same force in recent years. These are warning signs that we must keep in mind. But there are challenges. They're missions. If we are going to face these challenges and try to solve these projects with increasing tax and tax burden on individuals and businesses, I assure us that we will face not only political problems but, and that is the most important thing, we will face economic difficulties. [[The president calls.]] [[President (NRM): The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u110	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that it was good to spend public money in a reasonable way. So I would like to continue with the speculations I started with. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. A senator answered that half in his speech, but I just wanted to sharpen it so we could be on the same page and understand each other. Is it the opinion of a senator that the public should run a health service that is open and available to all and that offers the best possible service? And so at the same time: That healthcare professionals can do their business without being state workers and accept payment for their services through Iceland's Medical Insurance, with an ◯sing-player system, or a payer, i.e. A public health system that offers services for all and the best possible services we can get, and at the same time, are doctors and health professionals who can do their work in their office or wherever it is for payment? It's this so-called personal phenomenon. In view of what happened. A senator before seemed so, it's my understanding that the system worked like that. But I would like to add: Do a senator agree that a health - system monopoly of experts is a problem, as the National Hospital has explained? And how, then, does a senator explain the priorities of financing and funding in current financial laws, which simply support the private part of the system much more than the official part? We've received reports that there is a lack of expert service there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u111	Madam President. I hope I'm not mistaken. A member of the council, but I now think that I have answered similar questions in the past from that part of the platform. I say, it's our job here to make sure that all the people of the country have access to more intensive health care regardless of the economy. That is essential. But I also say, it's our job here to make sure these funds are well spent, they're not wasted. For example, as I look at the report The State's Reexamination in the health care of the capital area as well. A senator must have read and studied clearly that it is sometimes practical for the government to negotiate services with privates, thus using limited resources, for we are, of course, always talking about limited financial resources, in a more practical way than we have been. And what is more: capitalists'access to health - care programs is greatly improved, their services are greatly improved, and their waitings are shortened. So yes, private health care is of utmost importance to us, but it must, of course, be so that he will provide us with a better use of funds and improved services without ever leaving us in a prince's position to ensure everyone access to good health care regardless of our economic situation and actually living as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u112	A respectable president. I want to focus on this. I agree with what. A senator on access to the ministry and the like. But I'm asking why. A candidate believes that the health system should be in public business, a health system that can be accessed by all, as it describes. And that we also have the possibility of making service contracts. But the groundwork is that it's a public system run by the government that is our priority here, on certain responsibilities, relationships, and so on. I wanted to correct this with the waits, they don't shrink at all, they're just as many doctors and as many patients. Only a person shrinks a patient or a large number of doctors will be shortened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u113	Madam President. First, the last thing. Of course, that's not true. It is true that in private health care, services have increased, production has increased, and maintenance has even improved, as well as the ministry has improved. So it's possible. I say, of course, the most important thing is that we guarantee a shared access to health care. Then whether or not we're talking about the state, if I understand why. A senator, who is asking me if I believe the state should run all medical services, is the answer contrary. [[Up front.]] No, I don't understand the question. Where are you going to draw the line? In case of a moment. A senator is asking me if I can see that a private member of Iceland's National Hospital is the answer to no. This is our joint assignment, and I will never see that private people can run hospitals with the demand we make for Iceland's Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u114	Okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u115	I hope it's clear enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u116	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. He doesn't feel very good when he talks about taxes, sounds like he does. He speaks of them as expenses and a burden on us people of the land. You see, I think most people don't like paying taxes. On the other hand, in the community it has been observed that people want them to have us run public health services and good schools and so forth. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities spoke of the left well-being. So I couldn't quite get into that reading by then. Senator. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who spoke earlier about the medical system. If there are 600 million incomes for two demolition companies, we must think: Are we not paying too much money? If such businesses can be run, which are mostly funded by government profits at such profits, we cannot talk about it as such a great business and that the public is impossible. There's something wrong with this, it's totally clear. Well, that's my opinion, anyway. Also, I have to say, it has been observed that these funds do not cover health care. I have to ask you what. A senator how he feels about it. We know about this with a fluke. If we look past it, the government is in irons because we have relaxed down on the side of the income. I must also ask, " How will he face such a decrease in tax returns? ' Is he content with this, and does he desire that the level of the Memorial will increase even more than the rate in which it is now decreasing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u117	Madam President. I didn't expect us to agree on everything. It is obvious that my view of taxes is far different from that of others. A senator who made an enormous amount of tax returns on funding, along with his members of the council of the green left, if memory doesn't betray me. And it was millions of people, I think, of every family. Let us, though, leave it to each other. It is a special attitude to talk about reducing the number of taxes. We'll weaken provinces if we lose some household burden and so on. It's just a fact, and people can look over the practicality and see that when they take less taxes, they sometimes become stronger. This is also true of the codfish of many times. It's the same thing. You see, if you walk too close to the public, too close to companies, you weaken taxes. You don't make them stronger. Things are finalized here. If you go out of moderation in curses of an enterprise and individual, you will be encouraging the spirit of individuals and businesses all over the country. In the end, a government fund gets more money, more money in the box, so as not to take care of the necessary works that we agree with, I and I do. Senator, you have to take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u118	The independence's economics are always as clear. It won't be taken away, it's perfectly clear. Well, I guess I'll just assume that. A senator does not support a forward bill as it is already known. He mentioned that I, along with my companions in the left movement, offered suggestions. Both of them. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee has been told to transfer this to each individual and family: Inequated in property, we know it. The richest percent who owned every fifth dollar at the end of 2015. This amounted to 187 billion into its own money, and in 18 years it grew by 1,042 billion. In other words, the country had nearly half of its own money at that time. So I have to ask, Is it unnatural to get some money there because we don't put it on the whole of the country? We're going to get money where the money exists. [[The president calls.]] And then I have to ask, "Where's the waste of the councilman's opinion in the system?"
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u119	Madam President. I'm just going to remind you that the biggest bit of property in Iceland is in the hands of the state, in the hands of rural society and pension funds. It is suggested that there is only a small group of people here who own every single property in Iceland. That's wrong. But I'm going to point out an example of waste. I think there's a lot of waste to use the resources to save people in a hospital, a senior citizen, who doesn't need a hospital, but just general care in a nursing home, because we've been forced to invest in nursing homes. That's what I call waste. That's probably a waste of 80,000,100 thousand dollars. every person that applies to each day. [[The president calls.]] That's an example of waste in the system. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u120	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u121	Madam President. I appreciate the speaker's speech. I thought it'd be interesting to hear a reference to such a questionable economic theory as the Laffer curve, but maybe we'll just leave it between things. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is well aware that he is the head of the Economic and Business Committee, which will handle these tax changes, will resist the rise in taxes proposed in the following bills, which are stated in 2, 3, and 4 terms, especially the rise in alcohol costs, tobacco. In fact, there is no tobacco involved, but there is an increase in fuel and bone consumption taxes, which are relatively low on those with the lowest income. I'm just asking because I'm afraid it'll go right into the prices and it'll be a bad time for the future chicken negotiations. I would also like to ask: According to the bill 44 billion dollars are expected. in the remainder, which is 1.6% of gross domestic product. It's supposed to go to pay off debts. Would it be reasonable for him to stop spending so much powder on subsidies as it is? Now we have the debt of state funds of 39.2% of GDP, if I don't forget. Would it be reasonable to take advantage of this change to tax doctors instead? Or in some way trying to make this go back to the people of the country? For example, it has been shown that personal discount has not been linked to the prices or pay development of the past few decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u122	Madam President. I don't know if I can be any clearer than I was in my speech. On the other hand, I'm going to give a witness. The Secretary of Economics and Economics, who has given this financial bill and linked income bills to the council. He thinks it's normal and reasonable to think that there will be a change. That's how I'm going to win. I say, the only thing I think it's important is that we're not going to raise the spell here. We may need to move and make some changes in the system, change something, etc. But the overall laws will not be increased by my consent. It was very clear and very clear and should not surprise anyone. Of course, in terms of debt and subsidies, and the rest of the estate, that's the way it is, and I've said: "We have to pay off debt, we have to lower the interest rate of the state's budget. Of course, doing so is an investment in the future. There is an investment in the possibility of further lowering taxes and, on the other hand, increasing the contributions to common health projects, education, social security, etc. So that's the course of wisdom. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator that I'm not going to participate in raising charges in order to keep the wealth left even more than we anticipated in financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u123	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. That was pretty clear. I look forward to going to this job on a financial and business committee, just because I think it's time to stop eating this power that we're always eating. For a long time, there has been a tendency to try to reduce prices and shovels. I also believe that there is a significant need to be improved in the structure of the systems, both inside and also in the health system and so on. But I agree with what. A senator says we're in the game of following our tail. We need to get off on this. These 44 billion, that debt deficit, are kind of fucked up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u124	Madam President. I'm just saying, I'm looking forward to the partnership, too. It was fine here in the spring. Even though we didn't always agree, we did okay. A senator, of course. But I'm just going to point one out. I know why. A senator agrees with me that it is vital that we go to great lengths to reduce the debt of the State. The wealth has tied up $450 billion in the financial system. We've been through this before. A financial and business committee, and they're going to deal with something in the winter how it can be wise for the state to dispose of that budget, about 450 billion. There is now much that can be done for that. Lowering the debt of the state and the growth rate of the state's budget, reducing taxes, especially income taxes on the lowest wage, and building a social security system. But perhaps primarily a health and education system for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u125	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking everyone. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for the fine discussion we've had here today. There is first one technical suggestion that I would like to make to the Ministry of finance regarding the installation of a bill for financial purposes. It is that there is no index of contents that contains the 250 - page report. It's been over since I was a member of the council. Then there was no index of material, but it seems that my instructions from a talk chair on how to make a index in our midst have paid off to some extent. However, it would be helpful for senators and others who want to understand in this publication to have a good overview of the report in order to have a better perspective. I think the Ministry of finance can easily straighten it out for the next financial bill. I'd like to start by talking a little bit about sports and youth things because that's something we haven't touched today that's come up with what I know. A follow-up with the budget bill shows that the contracts and funding for youth service in the 2018 bill are 236.9 million. What stands out in a small way is that there is no dislocation. The financial agenda, however, is expected to be Iceland's Youth Association, the Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK that will get that strength. It was my understanding when we were agreeing with the laws on government finance that were so direct to the budget, to be in the nursing area, as it is sometimes called, the end of the story. The report is simply not clear enough with the financial bill on how this will be accomplished. Will contracts and scholarships to juvenile society really just run into these three communities? It correctly states in the report that this is the most important work being done on its own initiative, and likewise it says that the State's role in this field is primarily directed, by President, to contribute to the enjoyment of such initiatives. This has not been the case when we consider how youth service has been done in Iceland and how donations to youth service have been made. For the most part, there have been these three juvenile societys, and it is just that the century is different, that is, the 21st century. It's come to create new and great societies, completely to the Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK, and U.S. The report needs technical explanations, and it's rather sad to see that not encouraging innovations in the field of sports and youth. This is an extremely important group of languages to activate democratic awareness as well as to promote e.g. reduction of teen drinking and so forth. This is an extremely important group of subjects that we must take very seriously. Another thing I want to work for is what I want to do. Minister's been through something, that 20s. K. which will be 6 up to you. K. by tax. The songs we passed in the autumn months of 2016 made a dollar worth worse for microsurgents than previously had been. As a result, many who previously were employed have left the workforce. If there is something, some $20000 that is needed to make up for something, it should be about to raise the cost market, the limit for a dollar to be cut. By having it so sharp as it is now being made to make sure that any person on these provisions will never be able to get over a certain minimum foundation advance. We're making poverty through this arrangement. It's expensive. It is expensive for us to make poverty. It is expensive for our health system not to enable people to do things, that we do not use the human resources we have. Many poor people and even older citizens have the ability to function that would be worth the use, as well as the use of social, spiritual, and physical connections. That was a terrible return. So if there's some 20,000 calls that would have to be used to raise something, that's it. I'd like to also come up with an increase in alcohol and fuel costs. I don't have much faith in that increase. This may not be the most popular opinion in the world, but I find it somewhat strange for a class, such as the prime minister's policy debate, to be a right liberal group, to be the same as to offer tax increases on consumer products that have even been defined as common consumer products, whether people like it better or worse. It's just a intervention to people's freedom, and it's probably going right into the prices. It's coming at a really bad time. There's a lot of tough bargains ahead. I think we're making something, by permission of the president, by being indefinitely raising it. I think that's enough. After the collapse, alcohol was raised tremendously. There is simply no reason for endless elevations there. This was raised far beyond normal prices. Now it may be time to take one step back and let people have it just like that once. I feel like we're trying to make some straitjackets for the usual man. Just like that in the end, I'll have more of a natural tomorrow when I'm talking about the highest. Secretary of state, the foreign service. I'd like to give the highest order. Secretary of finance, since I have him here, that Iceland's foreign service needs to be as big as the world is, not as large as Iceland is, or as little as Iceland is. It says on page 18. 200 on the budget bill that Iceland's interest should be guaranteed in negotiations resulting from the elimination of Britain from the EU◯. The answers I received from the State Department were that there would not be money to create the standards that would be needed to follow the Baltrexit issue in London. There was no need to cancel the formation of a post office in Strasbourg, which does not specifically rhyme with securing Iceland's active involvement in the production of EEA legislation to make sure that the status in Brussels would not just be moved to London. We are talking about probably the biggest political change in Europe over a period of time when Britain decides to walk out of the European Union. So we need to see more of our foreign service. Her contributions were cut to a fingernail at a collapse. She has not received the rebellion she deserves, especially since we see a changed world. We see threats that we need to take seriously. We need to be more active in the European Union in order to protect Iceland's interests when installing EEA regulations and laws. I don't see much change here, I'm sorry. We need much more. And foreign services need much more. I will come to a slightly more complete opinion of the bill on foreign affairs tomorrow, when I will have a word at the highest level. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u126	Madam President. I had to shoot back, as I had already said. A senator, though, learned much of the talk. There's one thing I'd like to get involved with drinking alcohol as a drinker. A senator felt that this was over. This reminds me that once of many alcoholics raised by alcohol, my uncle Haraldur wrote the name Blöndal, an article in the Morning newspaper, saying that people must be familiar with a moderate level of alcohol charge and remember what the Danes called the Danins patigage mannas, which was necessary. This is a change. Alcohol has been determined by species' strengths and has been the highest for strong wine, the second for beer, and the third for wine, even though wine is stronger than beer. We would like to set things straight in the Ministry of finance and explore some of the developments. This export was made over a period of time to equal the two, but I will, when I measure for the bill, direct them to what. The financial and business committees that they're going to cut the beer charge so that it's not really an increase, it's just a transfer. I hope that makes you happy. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u127	A respectable president. This, of course, brings joy to the one mentioned here. So I'm here witnessing in an article sent to the bottom by professional drivers. The members of Congress then have a largely higher alcohol charge than the average amount of alcohol paid in Iceland, e.g. In Norway. I myself remember when I was a poor student starting to drink when I was 18 years old, as normal Icelandic kids do, that in one night the vodka bar went from about two thousand to almost four thousand. This was accomplished because some increase in income was needed in a government fund because of the collapse. That's why it's time to say stop. Of course, I am happy that I do. A minister is going to reimburse the price of the beer, but that's just enough. These are consumer taxes. This will go into the prices. I'm convinced that although I don't have a economic theory about it, this has a particularly bad effect on the prices of restaurants where expensive beer means the price of a hamburger in its own way, so the beer doesn't seem too expensive and the hamburger doesn't seem too cheap for the beer. I don't consider these elevations to be good in general, though, of course, I do. Minister. I may also be able to support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u128	Madam President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir came in at the beginning of his talk earlier, which was in regard to the index for a report by means of a financial bill. I don't think this is some small thing that should just be mentioned or given a light bed. Perhaps some would like to think of it as a thread, but in my mind it is a big bioavailability, a big democracy, and really a big community matter, because it is about not only us senators can read the budget, but also that the public can readily study its contents and provide us with so much support, whether we are in more part or less part of the council. I think this is a tip that matters in the big issue of government funds that we should take seriously, and I hope it will be examined in the Ministry. Because my time is running away from me in this first answer, I'd like to ask you why. A senator in her vision of the big lines the financial bill plays along with the income prime projections. What are these matters besides a recipe for how to achieve it? Governments are going to run the community here for the next few years? [[The president calls.]] What are the big lines like? A senator appears in this budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u129	A respectable president. It is very important to have a good table of contents, such as a beard. A senator rightly pointed out that it is a bioavailability. It's a matter of easy finding out how and what our money is going to do. First thing. A senator pointed out this, joined me, so might a dictionary be. It has not been observed here so that the budget has a special dictionary at the back as it goes and goes on in proper textbooks and good literature. It would probably help a lot to analyze the bill and find some connections. I think it's very easy to fix. I have to say, the Ministry of finance has been eager to accept such indications. I pointed this out first three years ago, and at least there's been some improvement. In terms of the big lines, this bill is actually just the implementation of financial and financial policies. We see a more conservative requirement in financial and financial policies than has ever been. The claim is not designed to increase innovation or to get us back on course properly. The great focus on subsidies as a roadside to the future, that we are shutting ourselves up for the future - I do not fully agree with the emphasis that we watch, for example. Up on the receding road system. It would be good for the future to use these funds to improve the road system. We do not use this opportunity to do so, and this is just one example of many.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u130	Madam President. I have to admit that the way that benefits me best is to use the electronic document, i.e. Just looking for what you're interested in in in in this great donut, there's a little point for those who are following the discussion. Besides, I like reading and scribbling the paper version. There's a way for me, and maybe it can work for more people. Again with the big lines. You're right. A senator says. Of course, we would have received a preview of the financial and financial agenda. I'm worried that this is just what we've been talking about since the government was formed; society is moving toward a worsening of their condition, whether because of poverty, sickness, old age, or otherwise. [[The president calls.]] So I'm very worried about it, and I think we're going to have to go through one thing in our government situation to change that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u131	A respectable president. Let's face it, not just the highest words. The welfare minister here yesterday? Right economy and left well - being - we have seen the success of the groups that have tried to adopt it here, the so - called third way. I think it's very dangerous thinking. Right economy, what is it? Are they taxing? How, then, will we go about making a better world for ourselves? At the same time, we actually see tax increases. My feeling is that it's contradictory that we're facing here. It'll be fun to try to sort out the complications when we start working on these committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u132	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to say exactly as it is -- and I hope we get the answers when we start discussing this on a budget board - that it's not good, as the Senator mentioned at the outset of sports and youth, that we don't see one number, but only one number. It's never good. I can't figure out why it's done this way. This may be possible elsewhere, but it is not appropriate. Then there would have to be some kind of reference, at least while you're doing it that way. It also appears at some point in the budget bill, such as. the amount of donations available for flying and air management services that increase a little from current budgets, on the other hand, the budget is lower in the transport programme. There are also differences in the format of numbers in several places. For example, two - place growth reforms are spoken of as 1.6 billion. Then there are more than 2,000 million in another place. It just needs to be pulled more carefully, so that if there is something like this, it can be referred to. It's good to discuss the presentation and format. I agree that the electronic document is good for searching, so it is also the perfect way to apply it. But I agree with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir that it is always good to be able to write in the book. It is also good to have such a table of contents. I also wanted to discuss it with the senator, because she mentioned that we had to take care of Brussels' interests for negotiations and all that, that I think we need to be a little paying attention and go into the big changes. A foreign minister is doing something in our foreign service, and he knows if it's not for sure that we're interested in something. Among other things, I am thinking of the development teamwork, which I think is a slightly stretchable concept, as was said here during the last term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u133	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, we need to be especially careful about the changes that are taking place in our foreign service. Of course, developing cooperation is a large part of expenses under a foreign minister's lawsuit. What has come as a surprise - since I am now a member of the committee at night. The Foreign Affairs Committee - is that all proposals for a foreign minister come from within the current budget. I think it's a little strange because I think change always means cost, though it's only temporary costs, even monotonous costs. Economics may be in progress, but this will result in cost. Other than that, there are some suggestions in this report, certain ideas, which if we were to do well - such as. increase our presence in Brussels to care for Icelandic interests - will cost money. It's gonna cost you money. In comparison, we have three or four times the number of foreign workers in Brussels, if compared to Norway, to follow the EEA regulations to protect Iceland's interests. Some partnership is there, between Norway and Iceland, so we don't keep on double work things, our interests are very connected. But the point is exactly that we need to tailor to the growth of the world in which we live, not after Iceland's sting. We simply need more people to follow the EU. It is not enough to have 15 people. It is much bigger to observe what is taking place in the European Union. This is our primary site of interest. This is shameful, in fact, in the way we follow those interests. We are repeatedly given regulations that do not work according to Icelandic circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u134	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with her that I think we need to be careful. There are a lot of EEA cases in the Government Constitution that we shouldn't be taking in so blindly. Of course, it would be better for us to have an influence and to deal with more people than we have ever been. I had the privilege of being at the European Parliament this summer. For example, I would have liked to see us strengthen our position there. We visited the Human Rights Court. Róbert Spanó received us there. I can say that it is a great gain to have such a man in this place, but Iceland is missing at the head of the European Parliament and at those places where the Globes, who speak for human rights, as we're trying to pavitise here at home. We're supposed to be on our way there. I agree with that. I don't think there's enough money involved, even though some people are now concerned about the cost of foreign service. I think there's something we need to take good care of, like, the way we spend it. [[The president calls.]] I think we should try to be on the lead in human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u135	A respectable president. I have a very simple solution to being at the tip of the European Union. I think the highest. A financial minister will also have that idea, but it is simply walking in the European Union. Then we could be with our senators inside, at the European Parliament. [[Up front.]] But until then, regardless of whether we are going to enter the European Union or not, our largest alliance is the European Economic Area. We have to take it seriously. We must also take seriously the increasing threat to the Western world when it comes, for example. to North Korea. We need to strengthen our position in Washington, too. We need to strengthen the embassy there in order to keep track of matters followed by President Trump. Foreign service is a skeleton. We need to put more meat on it because Iceland and Iceland's foreign services deserve better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u136	Madam President. I thought it'd be nice to see that in the budget bill, there wasn't as much voodoo economics as there was in our budget right now, which is the basis for this bill. Of course, the premises are less slippery, although they are premised in chapters. There is a strong hope in Iceland's decision to reduce production potential. But okay. We'll see. And this may only have a minor impact on the progress of the budget itself, since it is a relatively short period, although it does not last. The result is also expected to be 44 billion dollars left over. These dollars are to be protected for loans. It is most important because the state's debt is so bad. Today, the state owes a total of 933,177 million. K. When loans and bags are removed, there is a clear debt of 753,833 million. K. These are big numbers. I wouldn't want to have that kind of debt on my back. But it's just high numbers if you watch a government business like it was a domestic business. President. It's a big difference. Homes are not allowed to produce their own currency. For that authorization, the account is closed in 154. g. a general penal law and a long time in prison if I published my own currency. But the Icelandic government will, and will do so through its organization on that matter, i.e. It's Iceland's Secret Bank. Some factors need to be considered, especially since large increases in the amount of money in traffic over economic growth can result in unwanted inflation. There is also a debt of interest that is enormously high in Iceland. If the State owes us a lot of money, we have to pay. That's why we're paying $60 billion. This year, according to the budget bill, there were about 70 billion last year. Well, that's quite a success, but it needs to be reduced considerably. Because interest costs are actually one of the factors that prevent us from building up as much as we want to. While interest costs and inflation are controlled, the problem is not insurmountable at all. More than anything, there is no way for the Icelandic government to fail in the count of dollars. It's important to understand. Let's note that the state's total debt is about 28.9% of gross domestic product - not 28.2 as I said before - and only about 5 billion dollars. The next year's total budget is estimated to be in accordance with the budget. In this respect, we fill into the blanks proportional between Indonesia and Guatemala in terms of government debt. These are countries that have BB◯ and BB in credit ratings, but we have an A◯ which is a better credit rating. We also have a positive outlook, which Guatemala has, too. Our situation is to improve. With better loans on lower interest rates and new bonds with lower interest requirements, interest costs will decline. It's a project that's been handled pretty well in the finance Department for the past few years, a great feat done there. The question is, To what extent is the debt of government private savings? Each dollar the state owes is someone else's savings. If the State doesn't owe anything, it's all money for people's money at the expense of other people. That's how it works. While we should be careful not to owe ourselves to a head, the debt ratio, if we're talking about the overall debt ratio, is far below this Maastricht condition that is often spoken of; 35.8% when the Maastricht condition assumes 60%. It's kind of crazy to think about it like this. It breathes from the thought in the budget bill that the debt is always evil and that any priority must always be paid at the expense of everything else. Which is bullshit. Helber nonsense, Madam President. It's a long time before we start looking for building up. Everybody promised it before the election. The need is great. The road system, the health system, education systems, and other factors have been more and less trouble since collapse. It has been added well in recent years, certainly, but as little as it will be that ten times the pace, when you stay with your hand brake on, we were starting pretty close to zero when the economy was broken. There could be a lot of building up for 44 billion dollars. But then you could also take care of your homes. According to a report published by ASI, or recently published, personal discounts have failed to comply with pay development. If he had, he'd be at 79. K. in a month rather than less than 53 weeks. K., which would make a considerable difference for the homes of the country. Although some have made fun of the world's highest degree. Secretary of finance last night for talking about 20 of you. K. In some cases it is true that the amount of remuneration is relatively high. It's a lot of bread for someone. And I think there are less than the 26 yous. K. who are missing their identity discount if everything went wrong. It must be remarkable, even remarkable, that the government of the Independence Party, which since I constantly remember the importance of lowering taxes, did not put it as a priority to correct this personal discount which is the most reasonable tax reduction that can be made. But 26 of you. K. True, an increase in personality discount would mean 62.4 billion dollars. reduction of what comes into the state fund. If we removed this 44 billion that the government wants to use according to its financial policy - and this debt would really be enough to bring us down between Haiti and Mali on the world list, so that it can be maintained - and used further to improve the interests of the citizens of the country, we just need to find another 18.4 billion. It seems to me that the billions could be obtained by taking further taxic measures. But they may not even be needed. You can easily argue that a dollar is too strong. Although it may not be the focus of the stability that one professor in town has claimed - that it was 15 minutes in the time of the seas - it is really worth pointing to, as I have done before in speech and writing, that one of the few economic theories that have been proved, both mathematically and with experience, is not at the same time possible to have a constant gang, free flow of capitals and independent money policy. It's just impossible, it doesn't even mean to talk about it. Yet, this was tested in the years before collapse, and since the removal of the currency capital in spring, it is being tried again. That's why the gang flutters. Of course, it would be preferable for both exporter and importer in Iceland to be only a suitable source of strength but, above all, to add prices to those that are known abroad rather than to be mortgaged by tourists to visit Iceland for a week. Similarly, the interest level would be desirable, so financial costs would no longer be a major factor in the cost of all things. If an apartment block is to be built for 200 million each day to rent, more than one million of the rent every month is to pay interest. This price is higher if you take into account something else. We are in many ways in a very good place, especially in government matters. The economy is on its way, the land is rich. It's even a very rich one. But many in the country are very poor. Many suffer from mental disorders because of anxiety before each day and because of various other factors. The price is way too high, the cost of money is way too high, the dollar is too strong, and the motivations all turn upside down. Politically reflecting the budget of this, the government wants to maintain that state. This financial bill is the financial bill of a poor country that doesn't want to build up for fear of bad hand. This is the bill of a poor country in which economists are misled by the delusion that government is like domestic business. This financial bill reflects a community that Iceland isn't. These 44 billion are to be determined and more beneficial in building up our community. It's about time. It's supposed to correct the character discount and adjust the government's operation to the truth that Iceland is one of the richest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u137	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech. I found the final words in the talk, the closing phrases, absolutely of the utmost importance, and to draw out and describe the situation in a way that was unfavourable, i.e. that the land is rich, but many in it are very poor. Of course, it's such a terrible situation to be in and, in my opinion, witnesses to nothing more than that it's a completely crazed political bitch who's been driven in recent years. And with her, she's just a little bit off on her priorities. I also found an interesting talk. A senator whose debts were covered by him, i.e. payment on debt. This is something that we have talked about at earlier points, to form as we discussed the financial agenda, and we expressed many of our views that this was too fast to pay off debt while others were being ignored. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the personal discount in this context, that it could be raised instead. You're absolutely right. Senator. I would like to ask him: " Is there any more or other factors? A senator believes that we should consider in this context? Anything else we could get for the money? [[The president calls.]] Or does he think that this is the most efficient and best way to get so that not too many people in the country are very few?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u138	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's daughter for that question, because it's absolutely right. I have to admit that I don't have a tool in my hands to evaluate exactly what measures to change tax policy are most likely to come to best conclusions. I have, for example. I don't have the Ministry of finance behind me in it. I don't have access to diagnostic tools. It would be desirable if members of the Parliament generally had a better access to such diagnostic devices. However, from the seeds it can be said that personal discount is one of the most likely tax measures in order to achieve an increased equation, i.e. For example, it yields more than a loss of income tax. But then there are lots of other fees. Before then, I had a word about it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, by the way. the amount of alcohol and fuel costs. It includes political views, but the fact is that they put the low weight on those with the lowest income. Of course, we should look at these from all sides, as well as try to find some kind of balance in having adequate and moderate taxation, along with a strong welfare system. This is really the message that came from the highest. Secretary of finance last night, and I agree with that message. But I'm not convinced that this budget bill will achieve that goal, in part, because the fence or system around our economy somehow turns everything slightly wrong. We can fix it. It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u139	Madam President. We are discussing this large film, this vast, large picture of what we want to command our community. You're right. A senator says that he does not have the tools and what is needed to determine what action is most likely to be accomplished, but then we also need to look at the people in the community, even the people in the community who have an indiscriminate vote, but they still have very many situations and very many of their needs. We must always keep that in mind. The work in this room is not merely to stop off some numbers, but to focus on how we can create a society in which everyone, most of them, feels the best. I believe that we need to do so by using the tax system in a reasonable way. I'm not shy to say that those who are better off should offer more than those who are less than those who have an opportunity. So I want to stretch this back to the debt and what we should do with the money. Whether we need to consider investing in our people, whether we invest in young people with education or in those with their well - being in mind, putting it in order to make more money so that anyone can have access to a psychological service at an affordable price, regardless of whether they are rich or poor. [[The president calls.]] Whether that is the point we must keep in mind at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u140	Madam President. Yeah, I'll agree with that. The nature of the problem is that all the things we're doing here are about the big questions, and it's about trying to solve the task of creating a good society. I think everybody can agree with that. It is often a matter of conflict, exactly what it will do to a community. But I think that from the news we hear every day of the suffering of people of a variety of ways, it is obvious that one of the ingredients that we have not put in this background at this moment, at least in insufficient quantity, is that the welfare system reflects the need that exists and that the compassion our society has for people who are hurt to bind is reflected in the way we run our Kingdom. It's pretty simple. Of course, there are other factors. One of the things I haven't been able to do in this discussion so far is the need to start building more income companies by actually making the business more varied, supporting innovations, and the like. Because the more powerful economy we have on our front end, the better welfare systems we can include on our backside. It's pretty obvious. I fear that if we have all the emphasis on paying down debt until we're down to a level where countries go exclusively when they don't get credit on another table, we'll be in a place where we don't get to have a good community, no matter what we try.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u141	Madam President. There have been many interesting talks given here today, which would be better if it were already under the financial bill itself. To tell you the truth, I thought the seminar could be longer than it is now, because the discussion is about emptying before dinner on the first day, this general debate over budgetary bill for 2018. I can agree with the last speaker who really was, in many ways, that Iceland's situation is very good and that we are rich in the country, and therefore we have the opportunity to do good things if there is a political desire to make use of the country's strength in that project. It is not at this time and has not really been since 2013 in the middle of the year. That's the problem. Of course, it is a joy to see that the state's situation has changed and that it is so completely altered, and it is usually from what was on the deck most hours early after the collapse that it is far beyond any hope that you could make of it in any position of state funds and that it would come within six, seven, or so, eight years of age. We've had a lot of work going on. In that brain, the restoration operations in the economic and financial sectors have succeeded, successful since mid - 2009, when it was started to reverse the grueling balance of the state's budget after the collapse and control of the debts that seemed to be headed for failure. When cohesion with the World Bank Fund was initiated, it was set as a standard that the State's gross debt never went above 12% of gross domestic product. They were debts without pension bonds. They went to the highest level of 86%. All of this went far better than men feared in the first few months after a collapse. That's why, because we've done well, and we've been able to reverse the compromises and balance of state funds as early as 2013, and when it became clear that Iceland would be better out of these problems than many had feared, I feel more happy about how time has been used ever since. The expectations of the nation and many other parties have not been met that with better national interests and betterment of the state's survival, money would be returned to the country's building and growing well. Men worked hard. The schools, the university schools, opened their doors and received students, and they made a 50 - percent contribution. In medical institutions and many in the public business, people rushed faster, having responded to failure. They endured for a few years because they were confident that when the years went by, they would show an understanding that money should be returned to this system. It would have to, for example. to reduce the stress of many of these workplaces, such as the Land Hospital. The people put into a lot of hard work. Of course, one of the greatest heroes of Iceland's economic restoration is public employees who ran our whole system under enormously difficult circumstances, took on cuts and failures, and worked hard. It is not out of reasonableness with these people now that we can do so much, much better. The work load is far too much. The insides are damaged. Devices and equipment have not been renovated, etc. You just go to high school and check out the computer equipment. What do you think is the latest computers, e.g. of an unnamed high school in the north? There are four years old computers from the Lands Bank that got thrown out of it. Of course, school cannot afford to buy computers. No, but it's better than nothing to get four-year-old equipment from a bank that, of course, can buy the latest, etc. I could give you an endless example. Therefore, when we are in this fine position, it is a great disappointment that time since 2013, 2014, I do not speak about 2015, 2016, and until today, and until the next year and out of this budget plan, it is not to be used to initiate the urgent structure of our community. I'm sorry. It is to continue a kind of starving policy that will crystallize in that the country's share of valuable things is reduced as a proportion of GDP year by year, has dropped continuously for five years and is to continue down in the next year. And then here come the right men, talking about a cash weight, and this is a terrible thing to worry about. Yes, but isn't that exactly what they want? Cutting down the business of the public, closing down on the welfare system? The only amount of expenses that are colourful to the eyes is when something is placed in the hands of a private member, a private person. There's an oddly gentle text here about, for example. Medical insurance, which is the most important factor in budgeting the current year, is the fastest outing. It's not the Landspit or the Hospital in Akureyri or schools. No, it is, of course, the agreements health insurance with private people, including the medical expenses that are natural for independent expert specialists in a private business that is expected to exceed 1.2 billion. It's been like a year and it's always been here. It's just that there's more money in there. But the challenge is to try to get something into public business. The rest of which, in fact, are exceptionally well - meaning, are additional expenses for military projects. All of a sudden, though expenses grow handsomely from year to year. There are no illusions on the move. It puts real new money into the suit because NATO has already promised it somewhere in the country. The situation we are today is a direct result of a policy of government that has been followed in the middle of 2013 to weaken the government's revenues and to reduce the share of the government in particular in the country, and it is, of course, used to excuse that nothing can be done. We could be in such a good deal if only part of the money they have given up was the government. If it had kept half of what it was the last government, and this one has sent out, we would be about 50 billion better. If the government had kept its full share in GDP, we would have less than 100 billion more for provision. Then we could do what is most called for in the woods, in the well - being, in schools, in the interest of older people, and in desperate ones, on transportation matters, and we could also run a government fund with handsome living things that would be good. The only conclusive argument against this other than the blind right political bitch would be that it was extremely difficult to control. But would it really be difficult to do so if the affairs of the State were 40, 50 billion more if the rest was also 40, 50 billion more? No, it would be positive, for taking money out of traffic into a government fund and using it to pay off debt where it can be done without their money going into traffic. There is no such fault. We've driven to such a low investment level, e.g. In the transport system, in the roads, for so long a period of time, the accumulation has become so great that every lost year that goes unturned and built up is expensive. Speaking of the importance of paying off the written debt of the state is very popular. The importance of putting it to work has only been established here. Of course, it's good to get rid of these debts as soon as possible because Iceland's interest levels are high. But there is more to debt than what is in the books of the State. What is adown - down road system? Implicit the maintenance of public workers? Is that not also a debt? It's time to pay the dues. The road system has come to my attention that it would be more economical to place considerable money on it now for several years than to pay off the written debt. The road system is in a condition like a house where the roof leaks. If the roof leaks and the leak is not repaired, the house will eventually be destroyed. It rots, it becomes impenetrable, and the damage is multiplying. The cost of the repair is a fraction of what it costs to let the house be destroyed. That's part of the way it's going in ours, e.g. Transport system. Then finally, because of the usual time running away from you, I encourage you to read well the certain illusions that are in the chapters in the bill, making it appear that there is a lot more new money actually being put into the lawsuits than the conclusion really is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll find out some other time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u142	A respectable president. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee earlier stated in his talk that the problem was the success that had been achieved. I said that it would be difficult to screw up the economic situation or the wave that has pushed us to where we are now. We agreed, though, that it might be easy to screw up the results. I just wanted to learn about the leading of modern events from collapse, for we certainly have had circumstances that were very important to us. I would like to understand only the circumstances that were created around the property and the demands and the like, how that plan worked out. As far as I know, these were actually plans set out by the Navy. It was then the government to determine which implementation should be chosen, etc. I'd like to go over that story a little bit. After a crash, we went to a very big minus and we've been building ourselves up ever since. Everyone who came to that road and brought us here has something to do with it. I just wanted to get a glimpse of that process from the beginning. Of course, we know, to a large extent, that's why the mackerel came, so the tourists have brought us here too. It would have been difficult to screw it up, because it really happened in spite of a lot of things that had been done, even though the advertising campaign in Iceland called on a certain interest and helped.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u143	Madam President. I would need to have some time now if I were to give a reasonably complete overview of what I know in this regard to the leader. But in very short, if you try to outdo the biggest thing in Iceland's success: First of all, in the middle of 2009, we immediately got to work. It was not waited as some were talking about, that it should just pass in 2009 and even soften the blow by pushing a state fund with a nonsenseing angle in it for two, three years, and then trying to twist off things. I didn't see any sense in that. As the situation looked in 2009, a government fund could have gone bankrupt if it had been meant to be. So we got started right away in 2009 with a major operation in the middle of the year, which was followed year after year. It is a major factor in the fact that the situation is not worse or as good as it is that it was able to get a trust fund out of the sliding business. Of course, he was just collecting debts all the years, and there were large sums of money on the front. It's a big part of this. Rebuild of banks, a big project there, ended by coming into bullshit plus for the state. It was a very successful operation from a state's perspective, a profit. Then we lay down mackerel and tourists and a lot more. Business rates were favourable, etc. In terms of the currency equation, the demurrections, and the stability contributions, I think that in that brain, it was taken very wisely from the start. It was always, and we were in the first plan to take out a centennial school that the dean had to become a prize, we couldn't split it into a full-time gang. When it became clear how much currency was involved in the fragments, the outcome was the same. This value never goes out of the country in full price, so there was nothing new when people eventually passed a stable tax law or a stable supply. It had long been established that these assets would become worthless and justified. [[The president calls.]] The most important action in this was the entry of the swelling farm property to the currency capital in March 2012. [[The president calls.]] It was the biggest and most important operation in what created the facility Iceland could use to get so well out of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u144	A respectable president. I simply ask because you hear the stories in many ways, from different viewpoints. In it, each voice often speaks against another, taking credit for this success. From my point of view, it is this way, since we in Piranha didn't get to these matters entirely from collapse, not until 2013, that decisions were made that worked, and all who came to their decisions and continued a plan brought us back to where we are today. Certainly it could have gone differently. Happily, that did not. There were certainly some decisions that went into pieces while others went into plus. There were a number of different decisions made there, and in view of that, they were successful at any rate in terms of government funds. In addition, whales, so to speak, were added, as tourists and mackerels. I think we're going to have a deal with this past where there's uncertainty about who's right and true about what was done and who did what, and some things aren't all worth true. There are others who have the credit for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u145	Madam President. That's an interesting discussion. I kind of appreciate it. A senator for recording this because I think it's all right to go over it every now and then. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter much, i.e. when a man is in the game of taking credit for things. As the 2013 government did a lot of things, it pretended that everything had been impossible and useless and worse than that, in fact, to a curse that was meant to be accepted, but afterward it brought one world record after another in spectacular success. Of course, that's the kind of thing that's childish. He's funny. I said myself in these troubled years--it can hardly be left--that the only hard work I hoped for was just to live to see that it had managed to get Iceland out of this condition. I never thought of anything else. I realized that there would have to be many things that would not be well - off. In fact, I think the fair evaluation is that everyone who has come to affairs since Geir Haardes Haardes, who put the law of emergency and through this timeline and to this day has a good share in the arrival of Iceland. I'd like to give them all their money. Others may try to glean from these raisins for themselves and be great men, that is their problem. As time goes on, it will be more laughful and humorous. In any case, the groundwork was laid during the 2009 -2013 operation, and no one can deny it. That house wasn't built on sand, since from above it has risen a pretty solid place, has it? I'm going to allow myself to claim otherwise, that the most difficult political projects all fell into place during that period. Or does anyone want to trade? Wants the highest. If we had a time machine, if we had a current financial minister now, for him to jump back to February 1, 2009, and to be a minister of finance for four and a half years, and then I would go to his chair in the modern world? [[The president calls.]] I'm sure he'd have to wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u146	Madam President. It's an interesting conversation. It's interesting to talk about. I've never doubted that as secretary of finance they have a reason. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon made a lot of mistakes, but that was the nature of the case because he dared to make decisions, that's what had to be done. That's how we'll get on with it. I've never hesitated to say that he can look back with pride as he looks over the entire period because the only way to do no mistake is to do nothing. It would have been much worse and the worst thing that could have happened to Iceland. There's something else I agree with why. A senator in his case, which is the position of public employees who worked hard after the collapse. True, their choice has been improved much since then, but some things in their situation need to be corrected. This fits perfectly and rhymes with the language I've had lately in connection with cold conversation with government employees. I think that's where we need to focus on the sleazy environment, the big picture, i.e. Not only the pay team but also the work arrangements, the work schedule, etc. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for certain tax changes we're making here. We're talking about green taxes, these are carbon charges and diesel charges, however, we've been talking about changes in merit tax. I know that generally speaking is why. A senator may pay taxes more than I do, but what's his opinion on this particular tax change we're going to now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u147	Madam President. First, I'd like to say I love to hear the highest. Economic and economic secretarys are thus dealing with the terms and working conditions of public employees. I think it is important that we have a person in his chair who has an understanding that there is work to do, and it is indeed right to do not only to be elected but also to have a client, environment, that the work load, that many factors that really need to be done so that it becomes an attractive environment, so the state will be competitive, so that young people will find it exciting to bring in their education and work at the state, etc. On the basis of the proposed tax changes and, in particular, the traffic involved I'd like to consider it a matter of time to bring up the carbon. So we arrived at a time, and in chapters it was not even left with prices, so that makes me feel normal. For the increase in the diesel tax in order to match it to the fuel, of course, the scaffolding is that it is unfounded in the region; there is no denying it. There, people are much more dependent on long - term driving. You need bigger and more powerful cars over the wintertime. Then there is the transport and the transportation cost, where oil enters the country in particular. I would like to see if there was any way to achieve it through countermeasures that this would not be too taxing for the transportation costs and the driving in the country. My main focus is that these changes and more were, of course, to be done two or three years ago when there was to be an in labor prices on the international markets and the crown gangs to grow stronger. We saw more tens of dollars drop on the litre price. That they should not move them e.g. marketd income companies to make roads for prices, that is a sin. Better late than never, but maybe we need to take it now in some step. With regard to the value tax at the travel service, if the highest. Minister is asking me about it, I'm not sure it's wise to go that way. What I thought for now would be the most wise thing to do is to step up the balance of the bed, allow the rural society to share in that income and take up return charges at the hour, wait for a while at least ... withchangeoftheprecautional tax. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u148	I want to thank you. A senator for his answers. I like to have participated in these discussions today and hear their language. I think that this is how we can move on a little bit. I'd like to ask you why. That's not true. That's not what a senator is. Last year the government he sat in last year was put in the bank of funds to sell shares in Iceland's National Bank. By that time, it was the only bank the state had full but now in the state of Iceland, all over Iceland, and a part of Arion's bank, a 13% share. Now we know that by selling some of the things that belong to the Kingdom, just as it was considered in 2013, we could make a contribution. In the long term, I think, or in that way, I have sensed the atmosphere in this room, everyone agrees that it is not advisable that the state holds the whole banking system. I'd like to know what it is. A senator imagines selling some of these banks. I'm not asking to get him into some ball but because I've put a lot of emphasis on this. I think it's a good thing that this will happen, and at the same time, of course, that the State's interests and the State will get as much money for their share.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-14-3.u149	Madam President. If I can only add to the value tax and travel services, I also consider in many respects the arrangement that is good now, after all sales for tourism were combined in one step, that was a very good taxological change. I think we can agree on that. As part of the operation moves up to the upper level and continues to sit on food and other such items in step two, there is regret. Of course, it is very good that all accounts prepared for travel now have the same value tax. It doesn't matter whether it's a place to stay, a restaurant, a recreation, a liquor store, or what it is. That's a good arrangement. They'd be sorry. Regarding bank sales, this record of the Lands Bank actually came into the law before it became fully established by the State. But we hoped that it would work after the Kingdom was fully owned by the Bank of Lands, and it did. When the B letter was canceled, the state got without paying for a dollar for 18% at the Lands Bank. The conclusion was that if it happened, we should have a legal authority to sell that part or perhaps more. But, in effect, it was a document that the government had never decided whether it would be used. That was when the State had no other bank, so this was the case. Now she's completely changed. We still have something in Arion. I say without hesitation that it should begin there. If they're going to dislodge the property of the government, then the Lands Bank should not begin. I think it's a very good idea that we're going to go back to the future at least. the stage where the state intends to have the Bank of Land, even lay down special responsibilities, for example to attend to national public banking services, etc. How are we going to dislodge possessions like this? In Iceland Bank? I like the way the Norwegians went when they were living with considerable financial resources. They made a long - term plan and stepped down the government's ownership in calm steps and own, for example. Still in Den Norske Bank. [[The president calls.]] We can learn quite a bit from this. It went well. There was quite an agreement in Norway, and the Norwegian Parliament actually put the lines in it. [[The president calls.]]
