ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs requesting deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 392 of the measures made in the capital area, from Eygló Harðardóttir. There have been two letters received from the Environment and Resource Ministry where you request an invitation to provide a written answer for the requested request. 324, for the support of irrigation projects, for the Aratím Guðmundsson, and on the icicle. 221 on resources and resource costs, from Lilja Sigurðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u2	A respectable president. I'm not going to find the President's conference board. I'm going to use this program to direct a question to the highest level. President. This morning the General Commission delivered a report on the participation of Hauck & Aufäuer in the privatization of Iceland's Farm Bank. In 2003. Of course, in discussing the case of the administrative and monitoring committee and the presentation of the case this morning, the obvious was, that this is only part of a major case. At the 141th legislation Council, proposals were adopted for the resolution of the investigation of the privateisation of industry investment banks, Iceland's Bank and the Bank of Farms. The evidence is that we see only part of the overall picture in the version and manner of this study. That's why I want to ask the highest. The president whether he will not lie down with us at the council, as there is an agreement to ensure funding to begin in this investigation adopted by the council to try to get a complete picture of the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u3	The president suggests that the matter will be discussed at Monday meeting with members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u4	Madam President. I had thought I'd ask questions which way. paritaprevir In the autumn Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Vandís SAvarsdóttir, president of the Left Green, was planning on doing what he intends to do about the approval of the Allied Council to investigate the privatization of industry, Iceland's Bank and Iceland's Farm Bank. The president has suggested that members of the council discuss this at their meeting, and then I ask the President that the meeting be held as early as the first time that this investigation is clear and definitive, but very solely, requires that this approved Council be followed immediately by this resolution made in the fall of 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u5	A respectable president. I would like to use this team, the council, to have a word for word. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson for a word he joined yesterday. Hv. A senator entered the scene of the fishing road in his case, and if it were not a real option, if a person in general wanted to rely on the position of the industry to lower the fishing costs. V.E.G. A seafaring minister answered that question as hard as he was in the media yesterday. But I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson into his word. Between the end of 2008 and the end of 2015, the cost of fishing companies increased by more than 300 billion dollars. It was 54.3 billion for owners during the same period. The profits of Icelandic fishing industry in 2015 were 70 billion. Pure profit was 45.4 billion. During 2013 the last government action that made its first work at the spring Summit to reduce the price on the seabed reduced the income of the state's budget by some 113/413 billion dollars. In the three years that the government sat each year, at the end of the three hundred and thirty - three billion dollars, which I am sure of. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson would have been quite willing to have now to speak with his voters in the district, e.g. on road repairs. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How much does he think should reduce the price of hunting? If he wants to link the demand with a policy development, does he feel that if the cost of hunting is improved, the price of hunting should be increased? I can see why. A senator is very amused by his species here, and I look forward to listening to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u6	Madam President. I thank you for the opportunity to be prepared for the council and to explain what I mentioned yesterday. I can't hear what I'm saying. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér tells me that he worries about a bad job situation in various parts of the country, that he's worried about the security of hundreds of employees if not thousands of people in the country, that he's worried that it's coming out of solidity in the country, but these were the points I mentioned yesterday. I'm really worried about this case, and I'm thinking about it. Of course, fishing bill is like any other fee, such as insurance. When the management conditions are like this, when this threat is in front of us in this way, I'm sure we'll discuss it, but I'm sure I'll be able to hear it. The senator's opinion on this matter. I'm going to agree on a quick argument that has been presented in the discussion in recent years that is likely to pay the price of overfishing. They are something like this: This is a special tax on the seaside, reduces the competitiveness of the international markets, leads to seafront compression, reduces agriculture, reduces the ability of a marine outlet to reduce debt, reduces the ability of marine resources to invest in technological development and innovations, and leads to worse fishing outputs. Actually, I didn't take that argument together, did I? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon 20 years ago at a conference in Akureyri. That was his argument then. He may have changed his mind, but the evidence is true, they were right, and they are still right. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Last night, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir called being a baby, I call death a serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u7	A respectable president. I asked to have a word with what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson agreed, and I thank him very much. During last night's debate over the President's conference board, the senator touched a well - known theme of his presentation. Referring to the volume of speech behind more parts and smaller parts, he said: It's not a democratic agency that the government's department has, it's legally authorized by election law... So I disagree, and I think the compromise is risky. There were elections, people could volunteer, votes were counted, results were calculated according to pre-specified rules, and the results were published. According to these results, 63 individuals have the authority to make laws and determine who will take the lead in the country. It's a democratic conclusion. In this room, all of us are just as high, regardless of the vote behind us. I think it's understandable that the superintendent wants the administration from, but one thing is to want it because it's bad, and another is to suggest that these 32 members have a lower right or commission to make more part of the law or to choose the authority than any other 32 members of Congress. I think it may be that the predetermined rules we've set for ourselves at the council are in order. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is he sincere in his opinion? If he was ever going to end up in more things that would not have more of the voters behind him, would he ask that the vote be repeated and switched on his vote so that more things could be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u8	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss this, and the simple answer is: Yes. It's as simple as that. I wouldn't want to be in a government where there was no more part of the voters behind the greater part of the government. So we're only going over it: The present situation is that the Independence Party has 21 members, but it should have 18 members, according to simple division. VG has ten and should have ten. Piranha has ten, should have nine. The media has eight, but it should have seven. The restoration has seven, it should have seven. A bright future has four, but it should have five. The party has three, should have four. The people's party doesn't have anyone, should have two. The option is not with anyone, should have one. In effect, this means that the present government should have 30 members, 30 members of the body, 30 current administrative opposition, and those outside the council of three. Now it's so that the current more part has 88,434 votes behind it. The current government situation has a 90,299 vote behind it. It's exactly like we're playing soccer, and the team that scored fewer limits would win. That's what I call not very democratic, and not very athletic. I don't understand how people have been morally able to sign the fact that they do not have a democratic part behind that decision. I don't understand. I'm worried about that morality, to be honest. I see some grins, I don't understand why. I don't think it's funny, I think it's mean to death as it's been talked about here. Yes, this is a conclusion according to the law we have, but I'm also doing this specifically to indicate that the law is defective, that it should not be able to lead to that conclusion. It's simple. I don't want to be in the administrative part where most of the voters are not supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u9	V.E.G. President. The HB Granda policy says, with the permission of the President: Since social responsibilities are emphasized, the company has always been ambitious that all its activities reflect responsibility for marine and social resources. Yes, these are the most beautiful words set out in their policy by the nation's richest firms. Of course, companies with a right to the national resources should show community responsibility in their tasks. It has been reported in the news that HB Grandi has planned to cut off all bottom-fishing activities on Ac Aranesp. Because of this, about 100 people are in danger of losing their jobs. If not, it will have a tremendous impact on the local community of Aranesp, the individuals involved in the operation, on the payoffs of the town, and on its services. If it does, it can have a huge mass impact. I can't help but wonder if the present disaster system system is working as it would be when we see that the nation's most hungry marine outlet companies have to take advantage of practical measures, a company that has gained about 40 billion from collapse. In 2016 it gained about 3.5 billion, and projections are reimbursed for 2016 at 1.8 billion. Sculptors are greatly affected by these decisions. I would like to ask HB Granda officials to show the social responsibility they have in their policy, to postpone these measures, to converse with the town management of Acdines, the Fax conferences, and other business partners, and to work out how to handle these issues. Then, at the end of my talk, I'm going to celebrate a speech in the news yesterday. I'm going to commend the Roadmaker for his decision to apply for a construction permit because of a road construction on Vestafjörður No. 60. Finally, society's interests are put first. It's important to go. A World of Congress, especially the Western community, is given information on the timeliness of this process and also on the top plan. Transporter on funding for this crucial transport project. [[The president calls.]] A big compliment to the roadmaker for the decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u10	A respectable president. I'm going to talk about pollution. Maybe it would be best to discuss the pollution of society that is exposed in the new bank report, but my case is actually about something else. Today, 70 years have passed since the beginning of one of the longest Heggos of all time. Old helms have released a lot of natural gases into the environment, and some are not healthy. It reminds us of the release of other types of raw silks of United Silicon in Helguvík. There hasn't been peace, and not enough of it, though. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson reviewed the dress code of the various employees during the discussion yesterday. It seems to be broken there too, so it doesn't have a fixed word. Intensified words of pollution are always negative. I would like to make it easier for the council to review what is going on with United Silicon. Based on emissions and employment clearance, the company releases 130 of you. ton of carbon levels each year with one oven of two i.e. mainly greenhouse gas, which we even have. Breathe away from us. In addition, a total of 1,700 tons of the volcano - sulphur dioxide - the same as the 40th part of its release from high - temperature activations - and about 2 of you. a ton of nitrogen, the brown one that runs over Reykjavík during a quiet day. The release accounts for about a fifth part of the emissions of the fishing fleet. Approximately 70 tons of dust were anticipated annually, which may be mineral or dust from the raw or coal and chocolate, but dusting equipment does not seem to work properly. Organic smoke should not exceed 250 kilograms per year. It hasn't worked out. Snow materials, all health problems, remain within the approved limits and have stated that this does not apply to one of them, Arsen, and still lack explanations for the reason, as well as understandable explanations for other company's emissions problems. I will not bring this operation into judgment for now but will describe a lot of concern over the obvious inadequate handling of the company during the driveway process. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee will meet up with various issues next week. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the Senate to be on their toes and to maintain the degree of this air pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u11	Madam President. The arrogance and control of a fishing company is becoming intolerable. An article that allows access to limited resources for low costs, but it still has greater confidence than most other sectores, but both individual settlements in the grave and the general population in the country. Seafood companies can remove entire towns from survival and now have indirect threats to governments: fall, roll into the hands of the common people, and continue sailing along calm waters. If we don't, we'll just disappear with the catch and have it beat abroad. These are the thanks for the innovation rights of the nation's common resource. The cost of the fishing road from 2008 to 2014 was 242 billion. The owners have paid off their absolute interest, and many have been in financial markets, insurance companies, energy industry, newspapers, and, now, the last of the expensive rent markets. So it's all around the table. In 1st. The law on the control of fishing says, on President's permission: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. In other words, the sustainable development of the fishing industry. Sustainableness is meeting the needs of the day without reducing the possibility of future generations to meet their needs. Sustainableness is based on three supporting, economic, environmental and social foundations. What happens now, Madam President, if you take a chair that rests on three feet and saw one of them? He's going down. Nor can you talk about sustainable fishing when society is so weak and, in some cases, lost. The presentation of the representatives of SFS is a clear pictogram of a conflict between capitalization and active democracy in the country. On that occasion, the public must win.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u12	Madam President. This morning's report on the field for which the study was intended. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ At the sale of the Icelandic government, 45.8% of Iceland's Bank of Products, respectively. to the so-called S group, i.e. Eglu hf. and more people, in January 2003, the Icelandic government and the common people were deceived by the involvement of German Bank Hauck & Aufäuser in those purchases. Those are big words. In fact, many have developed this, but not until now. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason has made observations that he thought were false. Rather, they made the observations hard to believe. The questions asked by Algmund the son of Jónasson regarding the involvement of the German bank in the War Bank of February 2006 were answered by the SEC that according to the information the Agency had acquired, there was no evidence other than that the German bank had been a shareholder at Egla Hf. in accordance with the information provided regarding government sales in Iceland's Bank, for example. A report by the World Congress on the Fall of the Banks was published on the privatization process. It says that the S group had been told in August 2002 that we would choose a buyer for foreign funds. A significant foreign shareholder is introduced. According to the new study report, the S-group was able to provide vague information on the foreign owner and observations made in this group were informal. The results of this report clearly call for further research on the private development of banks. The General agreed to such a proposal in the fall of 2012. Their agreement must be followed. History must never repeat itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u13	Madam President. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice was interviewing a radio story on Monday, which minimized the protection of minorities in general penalties. During the interview, a justice minister's general protection and the prohibition against tears of hatred were balanced. Though she must have known better, she agreed with the member of the director who wondered that minorities deserve special protection from the wars of hatred over other citizens. The Justice Minister even suggested that the list of minorities should be added to the law of general penalties of hate propaganda, making politicians a special minority, along with those who are attacked on the grounds of ethnicity, color, race, religion, or sexual orientation. So far, the view has been that politicians have to put up with more extreme criticism than do others for their own sake. But okay. What is worse, however, is that the minister of justice was rather freely expressing himself on judicial matters now in the courts against a radio radio radio radio radio radio radio radioist of an interview by the minister. Was the Minister of Justice there laying the judges at the province of Reykjavík's History on how the legislation is to be interpreted into the present court? You ask yourself. Madam President. Justice is the very foundation of real democracy and effective human rights protection. An independent court is then the foundation of the state of justice again. Justice minister is the head of justice in the land, and the power involved is extremely difficult. Thus, it must be clear to all how inappropriate and really dangerous the legal system is when a minister of justice is speaking out of the utmost ease of the material judicial court that has been committed to Icelandic courts and has not yet been brought to completion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u14	Madam President. We have been told about the health - care cost of people at the council. In the days leading up to this time in News News magazine, news of a man who was taking blood and had done so at the Sólven clinic was announced when he arrived there that he had stopped doing so. He paid about 1,200 bucks. For this service all the way, but since then, he has had to go to the clinic and pay $9,000. for the same event. According to a conversation with the regional health - care director at Sólvegur, it confirms that this service has been stopped because it is too costly for health care, it is paying for this. They do not need the will to do the work, but they do need money to do it. She's hatching by the government's looking at this. That's why I've requested to have a word with a senator, and hopefully she'll have some good news, for as we know the health care department, it's a general failure to perform services in very number of patients, especially in the city of Reykjavík, and people are going to the private rooms and paying much more money for it. The scientific site in which this issue is being discussed shows that governments have not followed a clear and complete policy of maintaining patient expenses for health care many years and that long - term expenses have increased, although they have been swinging from years to years. Changes have also been disorganized and unpredictable in the system. We know that although roof has been set for patients and their visits to doctors, there are a number of things that are not yet available, e.g. Psychological services and dental services. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes it is acceptable and whether her government, which she supports, is going to bring this up so that people who have to go to such a transfusion won't have to pay as much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u15	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing this story to the attention. To be honest, I'm surprised. I hate to hear it. I have no information about this particular case except for them as well as anyone. There's a senator here. This case has not been particularly relevant to the health committee, but it is evidently a reason to get information about it and to explain this if the problem is over, to get a proper response. I'd like to use this opportunity to discuss a second story that caught my attention last night, which was on the way to psoriasis patients as the nature of the case, must consult repeated phototherapys for many times in a time, have to pay for each occasion. If so, it would appear to be contrary to the purpose of the payment system that those who need repeated treatments should pay even less than that. Of course, when a large and complex system is being established for the better, it is a crevice. Hence, it is important that all of us stay here to examine, and after times we will react if a reason is, in fact, that the system is not working against its purpose. President. It is our job here to obtain information about such nudities and react. So I will look for information on these matters and record them at the highest level. A health minister who is convinced that he will respond quickly and effectively, since intensive health care as the first stop and a reasonable payment system on credit is important to the government's attention in promoting the health system. Thank you so much for your inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u16	President. How much are we willing to sacrifice to keep out - of - date ideas about the need for work? When we arrive at the time when a company sees the management of moving the operation or, as it is looked for in the immediate future, even the automation of the operation, what tools do we have to keep in these precious jobs? We can reduce tax pay on companies or reduce the salary of employees, invite more willes, beg to keep these jobs on the basis of community responsibility. This could keep the plane going for some time. But what happens when technological advances result in more efficient and less self - efficient self - efficiency or cheaper labor is found elsewhere? How long do we keep this play going with the reports on the social responsibility of big corporations that have the sole goal of maximizing profits? Of course, the social responsibility of an enterprise whose sole purpose is to make money is no and never has been. It is deceptive and naive to believe such talk at a time when everyone knows that the quarter of a year and the short - term contribution of a shareholder is the key. We need to emphasize the importance of ensuring a righteous distribution of resources, not a rigid balance in low - paying jobs, which most would not be interested in working if they had a choice of greater economic rights. We need to consider seriously the removal of employment and pay. The above and above are basic human rights, which we have with a righteous distribution of resources to the common property of all Icelanders to secure every citizen of the country regardless of work. It must be the choice of whose secular work will be made to the community. The pay for that work will be added. No one should be forced to work to survive. That idea needs to be rephrased. As the situation is now, the community and the legal environment are designed to serve the interests of companies whose sole goal is to maximise profits in the name of free market, only to look to United Silicon in order to see the latest example of unjust priorities. President. The real free market is the authority of the citizens of the country to have a choice, regardless of their economic situation, true freedom. In this way, we straighten the market and simplify all our systems by creating a solid foundation for society to build on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u17	A respectable president. I have been a spokesman for the saying system in spite of all its faults and of course its prowess. I was surprised when I heard a spokesman for a fishing company talking yesterday about the idea that the article was moving the process out of the country. I wondered, " Does the articles turn away from the quality of the fish process of using our fresh water and the purity of Icelandic nature, which has been one of the main indicators of the exporting process? ' And did the spokesman forget the crash when the figure went down by tens of percent in 2007, as the income of the output increased and the profit of the article went to historical levels? At the same time, the commercial power of the people in the country collapsed, raising the debt of the fish workers to the end. Still, everyone would work in the fish industry and stand up for their own work. Today, when we are dealing with a temporary problem of great success in the country, a spokesman for the fishing industry comes and threatens to take the processing out of the country, transports the fish unacquainted, and earns it abroad. There's plenty of people here who want to win this fish and catch it here. Congress and nation don't get threatened like this. No one's threatening us to take the fish abroad. There's no way. I can't believe that much of the people who have the quota in their hands agree with those words. I'm just gonna answer these people in a sailor's language, that those who want to do their work to a foreign country just go to hell. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u18	President has to ask. Senators guarding their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u19	A respectable president. I'm gonna take some of the bottom off with what. Ásmundur Ásmurmur Friðriksson, but I may want to be content with their going abroad just saying goodbye. I can't overdo the work that a developer has in Icelandic society now and in the past. The history of the saying system is a history of the expansion of the code and the history of the decadence. Fear takes over at regular intervals. What builder would be the next to sell the henan out of the community and turn the foundations away from the business? A little review: Does anyone remember the scattered words, the Shadow continues to grow yellow and make out of Isfjordur? Does anyone remember the developer who received the nickname "Unfriendless"? Can anyone remember what happened to the deportation inresey, Flatsun, Gímurey, Húsavík, Deepvogi, Redfarförförfördur? And maybe the next few days? Does anyone remember the producer who, along with her companions, will not let himself remember a few hundred million losses in his propaganda work? Where would the benefits come from publishing such a magazine? Can anyone remember when the construction workers took all the Icelandic fishing fleets off to the port of Reykjavík in June to protest the need to pay a fair share for using the resources of the ocean, a special fishing fee? Can anyone remember a developer who threatened to lay down one community or such fishing costs? Can anyone remember a sailor who calms down on something less than that while being paid for a newly built ship? That's a long way to count, but it doesn't serve any purpose. The code system is bad for the public in the country, for only a small amount is profited from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u20	A respectable president. Yesterday, the World Bank embassy published its final declaration after its visit to Iceland during the days. There's a lot of interesting things there. However, two things call special attention to the proposed bank sale and may be particularly appropriate today to bring this up, in view of the findings of the World Commission on the sale of the Bank. First, it is called for a policy that ensures that banks will be in the hands of strong owners and that new owners' quality should take priority over business speed and price. This will highlight the long - term interest of the banking system and call for a full - scale conference on the future banking system. This vision is missing from governments, and as a result, only a few have been heard since the recent sale of Arion banks became a reality. Second, this will test the FDA and they will be encouraged to consider that it will be precise, accurate, and fair in the evaluation of new owners. The fact is, the Icelandic government does not know who are the ultimate investors that this 30% share in Arion Bank. Yet, the United States was ready to welcome this trend. The F.O.D. could, e.g. does not answer whether Goldman Sachs was a final investor. The F.O. is working on giving us answers to the Economic and Business Committee in this regard. A respectable president. Trust must be built on the next phase in the restoration of the financial system. Governments have rich responsibilities there. I encourage the government to have a full conference with regard to the future ship of the banking system and to do the work more firmly than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u21	Madam President. We'll discuss a document designed to be one of the most important documents in every government, except the budget of each year, which is a financial policy for the next five years. It is not a small responsibility, but it should also be politics, for the financial policy presented here is, of course, a political policy as it should be. It's not that it's political that comes out here, like that. This is not politics, which contributes to the true reform of the nation's interiors, which the government groups praised and announced for elections. It's politics, and it's inactivity. The basis for the financial policy of the state of Independence Party, the restoration and the bright future is weak and will not contribute to economic stability or social stability or equation. This financial policy does not present any real structure for the next five years. This is based on the thought of increasing the rest of the government budget by using property and the rest of a business to much faster subsidies than previously planned. The object of debt pay is high. According to the budget for 2017, the State's debt is expected to drop by nearly 130 billion dollars. in the year. The tremendous emphasis laid on the rapid decline of debt, even below the level of law, is far more likely to show a measure of success in accounting than for a strong social structure policy. All right. It is always good to plan on reducing debt, and it would be nice when economic conditions did not result in the lack of the economy being filled with tension and heat, lack of housing with the largest amount of money in the decades, so vastly high economic growth could be compared to India one country, etc. But worse than that, the scheme found in the financial policy of high debt subsidies is based on a highly uncertain policy of government sales and a substantial uncertainty about the value of government property. The tremendous rate of debt pay is based, including the U.S. The sale of the state's ownership of Arion's bank. Unfortunately, the value of the 13% of the government's stocks at the bank is very uncertain, so building debts is not responsible. has something that is not fully aware of how much is eventually given to the state funds. The government's share in financial management is not to be taken up by false or flimsy agreements. Great public interest is linked to the government's holdings on financial contributions and plans for their disposition. Only a few days ago, the sale of a holding part in Arion Bank was severely criticized because of transparency and uncertainty over who was acquiring more share in Arion Bank, thereby severely closing the state's position as the owner of the second largest part of the bank. Hence, the government must require that the procedures used in the government take place, without any cause for distrust, suspicion, or suspicion of public interests, meet fully requirements for impartiality and transparency. Under no circumstances should these matters be resolved without a general opinion of them. Yesterday's financial debate revealed that countries do not agree to sell the state's ownership share in the banks. The chairman of the legal committee declared yesterday that during this five - year period, the lot of the state in the banks will be sold during the highest phase. Secretary of finance has declared that there will be a much longer period of sales. As clearly stated in the report by the National Association of the United States of Iceland, the financial policies have been so weakened in recent years that it reduces the maintenance of the state's budget and significantly reduces the State's scope for the needed welfare benefits. This financial policy, the highest. A financial minister and chairman of the woodcuttery is not planning to use a improved position as the lower interest costs of the state's budget create an increase in general well - being. I'm going to stress this because it's extremely important, if not the core of the government financial policy. There is no way to make use of the improved state funds to create greater and more general welfare. It is virtually heavier than tears that during the present year, a specific system change has been made, resulting in a decrease in the income of 8 billion dollars. which adds to the stimulus action that has been under way on the income side of the state's budget in recent years. These include reduced debt measures and tax system changes, such as decomposition of wealth taxes, reduction of fishing costs, and reductions in customs and consumption of taxes. At the same time as there is an emergency in the housing market, young and incomeier people on less property than they had ten years ago, and it is much harder to get a roof over their heads, while the welfare system as children and other community groups rely on is much weaker here than in the countries we want and we're supposed to compare with is the right government to give up on billions of people who could so sincerely use to build up in community, which we've all been waiting for, whether in the education system, the health system, the welfare system, or the transport system. So, as nothing interferes with the structure, and it goes on indefinitely, or for at least five years according to this policy, don't you think it would be wise to take a slow down payment and use the income of a government fund just to provide multiple built - up structures, to risk the weakness of child development and growth reform systems, and to strengthen the reform system? You are not supposed to use the welfare system as the main economy at any given time. The welfare system should not be used to maintain the economy through saving the welfare benefits and infrastructure that can't be tolerated. It should not be saved when it comes to health or welfare matters. That's enough to hold you back. A financial report correctly mentions the increase in job market tensions and housing markets, despite the economic economic prowess for the coming years. But there are no solutions here because of the tensions and unsurpassed conditions in housing areas that trap people into poverty traps. It is not foretold that the State intends to tap the surface and the tension of housing markets, not to contribute significantly to housing. The house - to - house problem of young people and low - income workers is real and urgent. They need to be faced with housing problems by real action. Yes, it is foretold that the government must be disciplined. That's right. But let us not give up a government fund to cut down on those groups of society that can least be cut down. Excitement in the labour market is involved in the tensions of the almost uncontrolled growth of tourism, which has recently resulted in significant funding of the crown, or about 25% since the mid-year of 2015. The tremendous growth that has rightly been one of our best rescue rings in the collapse has been replaced by other exports. press up the tunnel. Iceland's export prices increased by 17% in 2014-2016 in proportion to the export price of the major commercial markets, which are incredibly largely attributed to - or, based on the way it is viewed - the tremendous growth in tourism, which grew by 44% a year and has increased well over fourfold since 2010. The tremendous growth has been the result of other exports, including those in the United States. By pushing up the gang. Such a football has nothing to do with sustainability, as defined by the fact that there's one of the baseline financial policies here. These high economic tensions, such as we now experience, and too much tension in the economy and in the money policy, are, in fact, useful to the people with the most holding and most stock markets. It's not the majority of the nation. It's at 10% of Iceland's 64% of all assets. This top tenth also has almost all the stocks. This largest and most successful group profites from down cyclement in the process because its cost of business is reduced and other assets are released. It is also the group that profites from the rumblings, for it has money to do business. To meet them, a woman would have intended to be proclaimed solutions in financial policy. Unfortunately, they are rather thin thirteenth. In the budget of the previous government, which was proposed last May, the main weight was said to reverse the automatic swing of its task, which sounds to players as if this should correct itself. You see, players are often right, for that is exactly the case. The system is expected to correct itself. The main weight of that strategy was to keep the pay side steady while the increase in economic growth in the state's income and create a more self-recreational management process. According to financial conferences, the policy on this seems to remain the same. It is noteworthy that, in effect, the automatic fluctuation has been weakened during the past few years by action on the income side of the budget. With the surrender of income, the right government has the first, and still the right government of the latter, not only weakened the wood but also weakened the automatic fluctuation. In addition, financial policy aims are weakened by the development of expenses and income as a solid proportion of the land production of this fluctuation. Madam President. It is crystal clear that if we rely on social stability in Icelandic society, we need to strengthen the government's revenues. There is more urgent work in the community than we can afford to give up. Who are we giving up on? Yes, to those who live best in Icelandic society. By strengthening the development of companies and by tax grants to tourism. That's just not right now. It is irresponsible to provide economic management so as not to earn enough money, that, when things become less intense and expand, they will inevitably be cut down. Where, then, will they be cut down? The cost will be cut down on the most expensive systems. It will be cut down in the welfare system and in the health system, because it is always the first to undergo right operating operations. But the imminent cutting is hardly compatible with the baseline financial policy presented here, which is sustainable, careful, stable and transparent. I'm afraid not. One of the main weaknesses of financial policy is, as both the financial board and the European Union of Iceland, points out in their reviews, that the income and expenses of the government are not assessed, taking into account the economy. There is no dissociation of the public's survival in primary and capital balance, nor is there information on specific income and expenses or correction of the impact of economic fluctuations on public survival. This makes the real maintenance of public financial matters unclear. It is difficult to conclude whether the target of recovery is reasonable enough to maintain stability. You can rightly be concerned that there are various reasons for economicism for the next five years to become so weak that they are skeptical. That is bad, to say, not so strongly, for, as the final words of financial policy state, it is vital that policy remains trustworthy when it comes to government policy, with regard to financial policy, all of us. Not just a certain community group or a certain government group. I agree that credibility must rule. But here, the basis and basis for our course are so weak and based on vague goals that this credibility is long gone into the ocean. We can't live on this. Unfortunately, though, it is reality. It is the fact of this financial policy, which is one of the most important documents in every government and is policy-makers and policy-makers for the next five years. When it comes to creating a foundation, we must be guided by credibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u22	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and especially the importance of financial policy because this is certainly a document we are seeing for the next five years. However, I would like to comment that there may be no understanding of why we want to do this financial policy to give us more and more. This is because we want to lower interest levels in the country. We'd like to lower the income of the most rich people, the people with their possessions, they'll earn less money, the debtors, the earners of the money, the people who have their first possessions, less money than before. There are comparable benefits in growth, such as those enjoyed in our neighboring countries. This applies not only to individuals but also to businesses, societies, the public. The other thing I wanted to make a note of at what? A senator is in touch with the sales of banks. I'm not sure what. A senator sat here in a council hall yesterday when I discussed this. That's why I'll repeat what I said then. It is expected that sales will be worth 35 billion each year or that it will earn money from these assets. Now, for the year alone, some 35 billion are right in the interest of banks owned by the State in virtually every respect. This income leads to a lower pressure to sell these assets immediately. So we can do as the senator rightly says, be careful, take care of it in an open and transparent process that we agree on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u23	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the counter-sponsore. First about this rapid subsidies debt in order to reduce interest money: As I mentioned in my speech, it is good to want to lower debt. But I and other members of this council hall have wondered if such enormous emphasis on a decrease in debt to legal goals on public finances, below that goal, is necessary right now. Is it not better and wiser, when years have been waiting for a self-proved infrastructure, and was one of the main measures at the highest level? Secretary of finance, taking down debt slowly and further spending money to get into the health, welfare, and transport structure. I'm at least. That's the way to talk. I think that would be wise. It would meet the demand and the people out there have been waiting for years. As for the bank sale, it sounds like we're at the highest. The secretary of finance would agree that there is a need for time for anything called sale on the part of the State in the banking system. I'm glad to hear he's there. But here, the chairman of the Board of Justice spoke yesterday and wanted to trade for the State in the banks during that five - year period. He wanted to do it in five years, and he was full of talk about it. In fact, he tried to correct himself when he returned to the platform. I think, in the light of both the recent trends regarding the sale of Arion banks as well as today's reputation, we must have all this trade process on tables and benefits, and do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u24	Madam President. I thank the senator again for her good words about bank sales. I think we agree on that. The issue mentioned here that we received a thick report about in our mailbox right now shows that we need to be very careful. This has not been true in the past. How long it takes to sell these things I don't know. But I think that when it is done, it should be done this way. When I was standing here the other day saying that there was nothing special I would have done, either to try to sell this thing or that anyone had contacted me and wanted to buy this thing, it is. I believe that when we take this as a trade process, it is important that everyone here at the Council will be informed of it and that it will be done so that a potential buyer cannot be said to have leaned on. I think it's important that these banks, which are actually not the subject of the day, but I mention this because they have come up, have a possession, and will not be abused in the way that happened here before a collapse. On the other hand, I'd like to step aside a little bit from subsidies, which is actually just a matter of allowing space to reduce the growth of the World Bank, which I think is also important. Because we pay off debt in those years when it is a good thing here, future generations don't have to pay off those same debts. We are creating space in the future so that more can be spent on these desirable matters that we still have. A senator agrees with the need to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u25	Madam President. I'm glad to hear that. Secretary of finance wants a challenge. There is no need for that. In terms of subsidies and interest rates, I wondered, at the highest rate. The secretary of finance referred to it in a later answer, why is there no plans to find in the financial policy to use a improved position as the lower interest rate in the state's budget to improve general well - being? I feel that it is as if I mentioned in my speech the point of financialism that I miss. I don't think I'm the only one. I think it would be a good idea for us to take an injection into our well-being, the health system, the education system, etc. But there is no problem in this financial policy. I would have hoped there would be some ambitious plans for real infrastructure. I hope their ambitious plans will be clear from the highest point of view. Secretary of finance, that he reexamined his mind and finds space and political will to enter the real structure of wood as he promised for elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u26	A respectable president. We have continued this discussion, and we are reviewing a new day. I'd like to review the circumstances that we are following yesterday's conversation. The financial policy we're discussing here - the only thing that can be directly detracted from it is that it's a financial debt policy. That's all that's very clear. Everything else in it, everything else under law, is much less clear. For example, the combined need for investment is mentioned, not from the development of it, how to obtain an investment need, what are we talking about there? The amount of debt we are going on, according to this policy, goes on an average of approximately 20 billion a year. If we pay off debts, we pay less interest, and it ends up to 20 billion a year, as I remember. It's according to policy. From 70 to 50 billion interest payments. In addition, the debt of pension is said to be at least 13 billion each year. How to tackle it is not mentioned. It's subtracting from this 20. That leaves only seven. This accumulated investment need remains. Then there is the cost of transportation. There aren't much left of these 20 billion, what's supposed to go into the medical system and education system, and other things. That's what's missing in policy. I'm wondering how we can continue with a discussion about this financial agenda when we don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, may question him rather than answer him. I agree fully with what. Senator. There's a lot that's missing in this financial policy. Hv. A senator spoke of the speed down payment of debt, this overemphasis on her - just to keep it up - to - date is the one standing here by the great spokesman of paying off debt, but when we're about to go down for a legal objective, I wondered if we're reaching too far at the same time as we're letting the free economy solve these problems ourselves. The public is not going to the income gathering initiatives to inject into the development of infrastructure and investments, etc. - there's no sign of this record, but overemphasis is placed on subsidies. As much as I am talking about paying off my debts, I think that they can all be overdone. As I described earlier, I would have preferred to see here ambitious plans for real structure and infrastructure. We have room for that now for the first time in a very long time. Why not take advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u28	A respectable president. It's all part of the discussion. Although that may not be an exact question to ask. For example, in financial policy when a candidate is included in the debt of public enterprise, he is referred to as a total decrease of 66 billion. The amount of land production is increasing at this time, etc. I hope that's the kind of economic growth. He's expected. Some chroniclers call it a miracle. This is how long economic growth has never occurred before. But we cross fingers. We never saw an analysis of the impact of tourism on this economic growth. If he stops, he's not economic growth, it's just chaos. If tourists did not increase, what effect would this have on economic growth during the next year? I asked for this information on a financial committee but I haven't yet received it. Maybe it's not easy to calculate, I don't know. There's a lot of field-of-view analysis missing. But what I'm trying to draw attention to is that there are these two principles in policy that bind us a little for the next five years. On the one hand, this emphasis on debt reduction, which I can quite sign, is good and needs work to go on. But it's only on the debt of state funds, not on long-term commitments or on the debt of public companies. It is also a requirement for the debt of debt to be paid to all business ventures. There may be a slight block in dealing with problems that arise. Because it happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Hv. A senator entered this vast growth in tourism, which certainly creates tremendous tension. As I traced the above, a 44% increase in two years in exporting, staining all other exports aside and pushing up the gang. There is concern that real measures are not made to reduce this impact in this financial policy. This tremendous expansion could be accomplished by adequate taxation on the tourism services, whether on rentals or on return bills or any kind of ideas there, I think that would be a song. For many years it has been spoken of, and in the government covenant, it is even a requirement to set up a balance fund. I haven't seen any ideas there. I haven't seen it on the drawing board at the highest. Secretary of finance. Norwegians have their oil reserve to meet these swings, but there are no ideas about it here or elsewhere. It'll be interesting to see it when a clearer picture comes to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u30	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial policy for the next five years. There is much to say about it, whether the people of this country understand what is happening here, that we are actually setting up a frame for the next five years that we cannot move within, and we are making dramatic decisions on how society develops and grows for the next five years. It seems that it is not taken so seriously by members of the management board. They think it's something that doesn't have to sit over or participate in a general discussion. This document is very dramatic about how structural and non-rebuilding will be here in the next five years. It shows that here, in the power of the right government, which puts capitalism first in its control and does not have the community in the wind, does not focus on what is best for the community and the public, but puts the greatest emphasis on being able to show in excel documents how to pay fast down debt in the next few years, not how it comes out to the common people whom it belongs to us generals to serve and how it bites on people, wherever it stands in the community. I can mention a few key elements that have been mentioned in this discussion, just to see if there is anything that sets in on someone who is following these discussions here at the General Assembly how dramatic decisions are being made. Expansion to increase by only 0.5% of domestic product is reported. Is it possible for many to discern what is behind it, and what does that mean for people personally or various structures in the country? Then there's the spending rule. A balance operation may be only 2.5% of gross domestic product. Would many realize what that means exactly for the people of the land for the next five years? The budget is spoken of as 41.5% of gross domestic product. Is it triggered by someone who is following this discussion or reading about financial policy online or in the media? I doubt that there are many who understand what is behind them and what rules are being set to wall the community into a very narrow, hard - to - break frame. The question is, Is the policy consistent with the state's fluctuation role? I don't think she will. Of course, the Kingdom should be preconceived and balanced if it does occur. If economic growth decreases, the State will use itself to promote economic growth and promote it through its economic instruments and into action. But it seems to me that the role of the State is not going to work within the narrow framework set here. It is highly emphasised on reducing the debt of the state. All right. No one wants a debt of state funds that must be paid high interest every year. 70 billion have been mentioned. But how fast are we going to pay off these debts? How does this affect the public in the country? Why don't we start by looking at the equation and having the public in it before we take it like a company where there's nothing but sale of goods and productions? It is an entire society that carries the weight of these decisions to reduce debt so quickly and to keep the box so narrow. It's a hard-on for that community. In time, this will reveal that there is no room to meet the wishes of the common people. The promises of politicians seem light when it comes to providing handsome structures in the land, in the health system, the educational system, transportation, and improving the interests of the worst. You don't find much interest in it here in the Generals' sales, or far too little interest, perhaps I'll say. Where is the target set up on the UN climate target in this formula set up here in this narrow frame? If we are going to meet that goal, it also costs the money, e.g. on energy exchanges and programmes in these areas. All this costs money, these ambitious plans. That's where it's being locked up. The lawgiver has a very hard time identifying what's behind it. Sadly, more and more are being moved by officials, with full respect for all the officials of the country. They are not democraticly elected every four years to the political course they are to follow. Officials work primarily on what they are assigned to do, they should not have the authority to determine how the budget is set down and how much and how it is divided against the various issues. But this will be the case when this financial agenda and the subsequent financial agenda will be implemented each year. The money such as this, which has been all about, how the state exploits its expenses and income raise, seems to me largely perfunctory. This will be all taken care of long ago and, in fact, with the framework of financial policy. I don't think the public in this country was choosing this in the election that took place in the fall, and that it wasn't revealed which of these plans would be, that there would be very few of us who would do the tax, all of us. Then I come to the point where policy does not appear to be expected to increase income to a significant extent through increased taxation. If we do not fall under the financial goals and economic swings that it looks like, in terms of cutting down, selling property, but we must not risk taxes or earning money. How dangerous it is if men are already built in such a way that they cannot earn money! It describes the course of these governments, this clean right government under which the objective is to dispose of the social property of the State and of all of us and to promote private affairs, which is a fine word of personal interest. It is done in such a way that everything that falls on welfare and community services, such as transportation and the construction of health and education systems, and in an effort to bring it down so far that there will always be more and more dissatisfaction in the public with these lawsuits so that private business, sale of the state's property, etc. It knows everyone who wants to know that this is all going in that direction, that it is equal to all educational institutions, equal access to the health system with and the lowest costs, and that there are some internalized in this community that meets 2 million travelers who are facing the next country. Apart from the public of the country, which dwells on dirt roads and unacceptable infrastructures, we call for things like a fiber - optic cable or anything like it. We're supposed to blow this off with financial policy. No one knows what's behind it, what this means exactly. It is as if the legislatator is being bugged that he has the means to have the means to have the means to know exactly and to decide by democratic votes how money is spent to build up society. Now, in this vast period of expansion, which men boast is due to the last government, and this government comes forward and waves the flags to them that we are on the right track, we are faced with various warning signs that we need to take seriously. It may not be like a collapse as it was in 2008, but it could become a downturn, and the state needs to be ready to use swinging devices. There have been great investments in society. Businesses have increased their investments a lot, about 25%. Camp investment has increased by 33%. But the official investment was 2.5% last year. What does that tell you? It tells you that the state's fund has become a huge debt to society. Government funds owe much to society on health, education, and transportation, and so on. It will always be more expensive and expensive to enter this infrastructure as things are let down longer. In this discussion, I feel forgotten. It'll be much more expensive to go to this structure when and if it happens, hopefully someday. I do not place high hopes that this will happen under the right control. It does not indicate that it is going to any real structure needed for many years. It is not always possible to talk about reducing our domestic and foreign debt but, at the same time, making up debt to the local people of Iceland and to the elderly, the young people, that there is a home at normal price, and to the families of the country. But it does not bother anyone, for it is mainly to watch a decline in debt at any cost. It is strange for the financial Council to be set up to review this proposal to consistency that nothing was done with its warnings. If it was not to be taken seriously, why was this financial body being put on? Does the government begin to ignore all counsel? Who is now the professional and transparent person and is based on listening to professionals who give good tips in these subjects? There's nothing done about it. It has been noted that the financial adviser believes that if this is approved, it's too much indignity, and there's no chance for a government fund to move if it goes after it, like some sacred book on this. General. There's a lot to say about these things, and I'm very worried about them. I also think it's such a national antiquities proposal. I may not be saying that this is the first time because there are so many cases in this country where there is no understanding of the state of the country. Here in the capital area, there's an enormous amount of expansion. At the moment, some may drink butter for many people, but not all of them. Here, too, is the vast poverty people want to ignore. However, the country's area has not been affected in a similar way to the capital area. If this situation is not being handled now, when last year more than 7% were economic growth and has improved since 2010, when the left government was in power and built up for the economic benefits we are living in today, when can you take over and do something? I'm just asking. And I don't ask as a ignorant woman. I'm just asking as a perfectly intelligent woman. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: When, on earth, the government will show respect for the people of the land, those paying their taxes from earning as much as 200 you can. K. Or more than that, that they may receive something for their taxes? No matter where they live, no matter where there is a Arnesf or a Flatty, Deepvogi, anywhere. When do these people get e.g. Good transportation? The use of transport is not seen in this financial policy. It's being dragged along miles after a mile, making all projects much more expensive than it would otherwise be. It is not advisable in 2017 that we are still like an Eastern European community in large parts of the country where things are so far behind us that we are embarrassed, this rich nation. Therefore, I give little for this document that is going to wall the poor longer in poverty, walled up in the land, and kept the borders downstairs, and all the infrastructure, doing nothing that it's time to spit in the palms of our hands, and build up this society as it deserves. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I decided that she mentioned the state's fluctuation role, and it was clear that it was talking about economic swings much rather than gang swings, although sometimes there is a correlation. I wanted to curious about what happened. A senator's idea of the financial policy of a so - called precautions fund is expressed. I think that's a name. It's an 'orwellian.' The English translation is a Southern Weather Fund, which I preferred to call a treasure of people instead of a treasure fund. I think the concept of a precautionary fund implies some sort of secondary risk, which in some respects exists, but the balance role may not be completely clear in this fund. This amount of funds could now be implemented in various ways, and it has been done in some places. The most famous national treasure is in Norway, but there are many of them. When we're talking about swinging, it's supposed to be in a ◯keysian approach, as one would call it, or should this be a great direct delay, and how would that be related, for example, to the ideas of solid policy and other ideas about changes in currency issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u32	Mr. President. I would be all for setting up a fund, whatever the name we call it, a crisis fund or the nation's resources. I think it's right to consider putting in it for future generations of what we're creating. We can watch this as we do in the home, where we try to make plans to meet unexpected expenses. The same should be true of the state, we would have to set up such a treasure. It has been discussed for a long time, and I would support it; it would be used primarily when needed. In the economy, you would think that this fund would have to be fixed by certain rules and to add to the bridge of the gap. That's what the practical housewife does when she runs her home with her mate, she uses - yes, I'm not ashamed of being a practical housewife and taking that word for granted. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But okay. Of course, we should use that money to bring an injection into the community when it is needed. Not every debt is bad, the state is too shy to speak for it. Debates can be good when they are investments in positive building projects that return to society and pay off. Debts are not bad in themselves or in nature if they are investments in important things that society then pays down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good answer, though, by a funny intervention. I agree, it's good to set up a crisis fund. It is always wise to have reserves. I agree with that as well. A senator says that debt is not always bad. Sometimes you have to make a debt just to do a little more things, but, of course, I always feel that he has a slight lack of control over the operation of a family and the operation of a national organization; economics are completely different in the second instance. A question can be added in the form of a question. A senator mentioned such rules and rules. I asked a little about whether this was supposed to be about operating a team or if it should be further used for some kind of high-keysized economy. Watch your step. A senator might have tore up some ideas about what rules could apply to such a treasure? Now we haven't seen such rules since the highest. Money secretary or anything about this planned fund. It's gonna be here soon. Maybe something will come and maybe not, I don't know, I hope so. But the situation at the moment is that there has been a term for this rather thin policy that still has no meaning in our minds. Perhaps now we have the opportunity to try to shape this idea only through our conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u34	Mr. President. It can be thought out loud with a bang. A senator would do so in himself. The first thing that comes to my mind at the shape of such rules is the social approach to the rules, not just some business montage, but the public of the country. It could be through a country associated with unions and unions, and I'm also talking about elderly, desperate and professional interests. I feel that it would be a paradox of the community that would shape such rules, for this would be a source of caution to the whole community, not just for the seabed or for the wing or for the traveling work there, when unexpected events would be met, but also for the suffering of the public. Then I will name inequities and poverty in the land. If we can afford to set aside such a fund, which we can naturally afford, we should also work to eliminate social poverty and to keep the welfare system free of holes in which people fall, from the safety network we want the welfare system to be. We need to make sure that the people of the land are a decent people. All too often, in all economics and government discussions, I feel that everyone can live with a decent standing in this rich country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very bad speech earlier. What I cut in speech was wrong. A senator was built inside, and especially in the country. I see that in a financial seminar, it is said that there is considerable investment support. So does the President's permission: However, it is difficult to use the ideal maintenance level in these companies - and public companies like Isavia are hard to think - of in all the years in which there is a great need for infrastructure in the infrastructure, to form an area of air transport and energy sharing, as well as a project to be completed in existing energy sources. Decisions on new investments must be based on clear interest users, and they need to be timed in the context of the economy. Now, we have seen much structure and a great need for building at the airport in Keflavík, for which Istavia has been presupervised. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, where she is a regional senator of the West, whether or not we're putting all our eggs in the same basket. There's a lot of structure going on, for example. At the airport, up to billions, and this adds up. Would it be better to slow down the structure there and speed it up on the south side of the West, bridge years again, with a single stream of bridges, and a slight slowing down of this fast structure, which has certainly been necessary, i.e. if we need to play such a balance game? We're looking out that the only means of flying to Iceland that is somehow used leads to somehow everything else. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a response from the highest. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u36	Mr. President. There are many things that could be done, I think, to use the government's tools to equal this expansion or to distribute it, so that it will not only be on the southwest corner; ug. This is exactly what one senator mentioned at Isvia's place of construction at the Cheflavík Airport. I believe there is much we can do about making money to build up these multi-counted infrastructures, such as airports wide and wide around the country. In the country, there are airports, both in Egls, and in Akureyri, that can be used for international flights. Emphasis on their building up. It's good for everyone to find other ways to enter the country. We look forward to an enormous number of tourists that we are not ready to meet, but we do. That's all there is to it. We should also look to it, as it were. One senator noted, to speed up the effort to complete a broken line on all roads of the country. This is not acceptable yet to be left in large sections where there is no wear and tear. What a tragedy to know that there is no serious effort to do so in the next five years! How long will people live under such conditions? When employment is merely getting better at it, the State does not contribute to the locals to improve transportation into the area. Of course, the government's funds should be controlled in such a way that the uplift will be useful. Nobody knows how long it lasts. This will not necessarily be 7% interest rate in the coming years. Not by default.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u37	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came to the very key point. It says here, by permission of the President: The decision to make new investments needs to be based on clear profiteers... Is it true that airports around the country need to be built by exploitors? We observe that our main problem in the land can be shut down. We are on an island with considerable volcanic activity compared to what happens and in other countries around us, so we need more airports. If everything is to be built up by the profiteers, in terms of public business, and I name Istavia, then we're not looking at the overall picture on social issues. At the same time that we host more thousands of tourists each year, housing problems have increased dramatically. Now I don't know how many billion go into building with Istavia a year, but I think of all the human beings needed. Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous increase in the demand for apartments. The capacity of the Icelandic construction industry is about 4,000 apartments a year. If we're competing there, don't you think about it a little bit in the big movie? Don't you think we should just react to how we're going to achieve all of this? It's not just about exploitors. It's also about society and how we want to build. I don't see much social grounds in this financial policy. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees it somewhere. Where is society on this policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u38	Mr. President. This bill doesn't have much to do with community thinking, like what. A senator mentions. I wholeheartedly agree that we should not throw everything away from the interests of money. In the long run, you can also look at things from things that are economically practical. We're a nation. We are not just individuals who are going to make money, each individual, and who give little for the way this community builds up. We're a community. The treasure is the state funds of this community. Therefore, it is the duty of those who care for the terms of government, and of our duty as members of the council, to consider the whole body as a community. Some are profitable; some are not. Of course, we should use what is profitable to match and balance things that we can balance in order to improve the use of various investments in our country. There's a lot of investments, both owned by public sources and also by private partners, all over the country that isn't well used, are useless. It is practical to make much more use of these assets. This can be calculated in the Excel documents over a longer period of time that it is nationally practical. It is not necessarily economically acceptable to leave all these possessions and to let them run down, down and down the country, the public property, and the infrastructure, such as transport and other, so that the common people feel it is best to move here to the capital area. There is no national economic advantage, at 330 you have. the largest part of it is here in the capital area. We have investments far and wide around the country that we are to make better use of. It's economically practical. It's not the government to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u39	Mr. President. The financial policy discussed here is an attempt to fulfill laws on public finances. That law clearly explains what is involved in such financial policies, and this financial policy does not fulfill it. There is a need for policy on the development of costs, on taxes and on other government revenues. As noted in Article 3 of the committee's list, all that is traced on these issues seems to be to be expected that the development of budgets will follow the development of GDP, which is not a policy, only a claim on how things could be made. A policy would be far more broad in nature. The problem with this approach is that it's not political, it's technical. Weaving is a narrow frame, acting as though it is some kind of nature's work. The community is not taken into account, as some have said here, but it is the community that is at stake. Of course. Nor do social problems be taken into account. It is not clear how the health system, which is the priority of most citizens, can be fixed within that framework. Similarly, it is not clear how the government has considered improving the interests of those who are least allowed in the community or who have improved education. None of this is possible within this financial policy. We know that there is a great need for infrastructure that has been piled up over the past few years. It is very clear that monocommunication coins should only be used in building on wood, but at the same time, it says that all monopolies should go directly to the payment of debt. These two things cannot happen at the same time. We must also remember that while economicism makes us such a narrow frame, nothing can be extended unless GDP also increases, which has already been the case. I found this interesting, and I still find it interesting to believe that the rise in GDP is falling in one of the conditions of policy development. What happens then? You see, it just doesn't work out. There's a lot of things out there that don't hold up. That's why I want to use this opportunity to discuss politics. New financial laws are just a lengthy attempt to remove all politicians from politics, to pay off the council by removing its ability to make a decision, except, of course, here on this particular matter. When making financial policy, it marks the political position of the government and, at the same time, the political bondage of all those coming into government for the next five years, especially of us here at the council. We who are in a position of government are not limited to this, but we shall not have any other answers but that this is not possible because it works against the policy. That's why I can't enjoy the fact that the government's budget is put in such a technical grasp of moneyism that there's nothing else. We must look ahead and see what this course involves. The General will not be able to determine the exact funding of specific projects. The General will not decide to, in effect, change the priorities of projects, since a minister seems to be able to accept the permission to set priorities differently or to cancel an assignment, according to the highest level. We've been dealing with a secretary of transportation. In addition, the General has lost much of the Senate to the minister of each seminary and, in fact, to the unscrupulous officials of the praxize. The administrative part is also busy with the proportion of taxes on GDP and is very interested in reducing taxes. On the contrary, the Piratars have wanted to see the actual sum of the debt and then the weight of the state funds. While the proportion of GDP is certainly fine and used widely as a reference, it is good as a control number to compare one country with another, the ratio can be changed to both numerators and denominators. The denominator is, in fact, out of the scope of the country's influence because there are changes in world market prices, demand for fish and aluminium, and experiences in Iceland's nature, investment levels, and most other factors. Yet, none of this can have as much an impact on GDP as changes in the permafrost amount of money in traffic, because despite the failure of GDP to measure the enlargement of the economy, there is the greatest turning point in GDP. It has been studied and censored. This means that loans and housing markets may be a better measure of the future quality of the state's funds to pay for health care and all of that and whether we have a strong economy. All right, Mr. President. Let's use the gross domestic product. Then, too, let us see that the former's change accounts for the total decrease in the proportion of the government's debt of GDP. The actual reduction in debt expected is estimated only about 4.35% in this policy over five years, despite the withdrawal of 2% of GDP. True, 1% is passed and then up to 1.6%. But if we took 2%, that would be about 60 billion bucks. Today, which is, in fact, less than a trust fund pays for interest every year. It's just a little bit of a rock. While it is a good goal in itself to try to lower their debt, interest costs are much more important. I've traced it to a very long time ago. in the first discussion of this matter. Of course, once such a policy is made, the underlying factors are very clear. I have mentioned it before and stressed that if the basis is wrong, the conclusion will probably be wrong, but it is possible, but it is very unlikely to get the right conclusion with the wrong reasons. For good plans to be made, good predictions are needed. I think mathematical modeling is a little bit of a hobby for the highest degree. Secretary of finance, and I think there's more of us in the room who share that hobby with him. It's a little dark on the side, but okay, we don't have to go so far as to go into some kind of modeling. It would be enough to set up a number of stage photos that work out how to describe the situation and its goals and how we can get between places and how we can get lost. But there aren't any stage photos. They're missing the whole thing. V.E.G. A minister last night said they needed a better national interest model. I'll agree with that. I also understand the troubleship the government once had, and she took over the administrations of all of this and suddenly going into a faulty new scheme without having anything other than a national forecast, which is largely fake, and having to do it in a very short period of time. That is not an envious situation. We must realize, though, that this course does not fulfill laws. This course does not tell us what the future might look like. This policy, in effect, asserts itself unconvinced. It might have taken longer to work, to work professionally, even to address some of the ideological doctrines that seem to be incorporated into the proposal, and to do this well. That's not a big request. In fact, the conclusion is: The discussion of financial policies that do not meet laws is subject. It is based on skeptics, based on the fact that the economy will continue to be as strong as in recent years, despite the fact that the basis for the course itself will not be. It's kind of like predicting wind and rain and then putting on shorts. I don't understand what this is all about. You would have thought that we had the same desire to change things that I think most new senators share, and even those who are older and more experienced, to change the work environment, to do things better, to do things better. There's been a lot of talk about it in the discussions that there's nothing to talk about here because it hasn't been working well enough. We can talk about this from political ideologies, we can talk about this from economics, and we can also talk about this from clean work and practices. That's what I've put emphasis on doing here. In the end, the problem is that we are talking about the failure of the report instead of talking about its advantages because there are no benefits, that is nothing. Then we are in a position, in part, because this is a new arrangement, that we are now waiting to see how the first financial plan made up of this kind looks. This is a new form, and we all know it. In fact, we know very little about how the process will follow because there are unsettled paths there. All right. At this point, we are discussing economic policy, which binds us to five years of age, or binds the government to five years of age, and there is a question about how the government's situation will react to it. Then there's some financial plan, and it's probably more important because there's nothing here. When it comes, we can go to the bigger picture, hopefully we'll see who the government is planning to pursue health, education, infrastructure, street, etc. Then we can figure out how society might look next year and after two, three, four years and maybe five. Then we're in a position where we can actually start discussing these matters on an option, perhaps, not that we suddenly understand the benefits, but at least we have some sort of counterweight. But until then, we're in some void. We're in a void where we're being forced to complete a discussion on this matter and even accept it without having seen what the process looks like. I don't feel that kind of work is good enough. I don't think we're doing well as a council if we agree to take this case out and even vote on it before we see the financial or financial agenda - even the vows are confusing. We have to do better than that. We are gathered here to do a good job in this country on both legal grounds and other grounds at the highest level. A government, but we can't if we're always in some crazy situation where we don't get a decent, clear model or stage photos or at least Suggestions that are in accordance with the laws set out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u40	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. It's nice to take the conversation out of the politics, because it's nothing but politics, this bag, a big right politics under here. The ironing of such things, such as the senator's entry, goes on to hold up established Kingdom Halls that hear it rather than enable them to improve. I agree with that. Senator. We've attached both roof and expenses, and they're stocked up into years. Most of the parts seem to think that unless disasters strike, this will not be changed during this period. The senator discussed the injection in the health care system. The Minister of Social Affairs has now said that he intends to live up to the agreements made on the basis of housing and building and so forth. It runs on billions in the years ahead, and we know all about the road type, etc. Like the senator, I'm looking forward to seeing if the plan involves this. On the other hand, I am deeply concerned that a member of the council who has not already sat in the Hall and listened to the talks presented here may not be aware of what is being established. I'm worried people won't know about it. What we've been through here has been, I think, to some extent clear the picture. I ask the senator if he believes in this view that the Minister of Social Affairs can fulfill all his plans for development, whether the secretary of transportation can live up to its structure, without any private enterprise, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I agree, it's politics. But as I said, it's also an attempt to take the politicians out of the politics, which is really weird, there won't be anything left. We are dealing with housing and streets, and all these matters exactly because that is what is fundamental to society, it is not as if a public debt fund is fundamental to the community. To answer that. A senator: No, there is no way that these plans, whether in the construction of the transport system or in the building up of a house, can be met by this policy. I say so and I want to prove it by assuming that there will be rest; the remainder will be 1% at first and up to 1.6% of gross domestic product. We know that debt is rather high, but the increase in GDP is decreasing in the next few years. This means that the recovery of 1.6% of gross domestic product is going to be more difficult, that means. If we look at what it means in the prax, it means more cuts, which is not okay. How's the top? A government to respond to this? There are two stories of it. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson says that the banks should be sold and financed. But it says there's supposed to be a drop in the debt. Can the two be recovered at the same time? I have no idea. It doesn't look like it to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u42	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with him that we received different answers here yesterday. But it doesn't just mean, like, cot. A senator said, increased cuts, and personalization. It is where the government has shown the cards, whether in transportation or in health or now, that there is a tendency to go in that direction. The Senator discussed the capacity of the Generals to make decisions on certain matters. I was at a meeting at a State Accounting this morning. We discussed, among other things, the opinion of the U.S. Council agent regarding the constitution of the council's right to make decisions. I have faith that it will. I trust that the Constitution will weigh the weight of it. Of course, the process is very complex. We need to find a way in it and find out. It may well be that we have some way to fix these laws. There were certain ideas infuriated. But I think it's to see how the process can be the best. I believe we can make some changes here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u43	Mr. President. I agree. I was here until midnight last night talking with the council president. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon. We had this conversation about whether public financial law might be a violation of the Constitution. There is good reason to consider whether there is something to try to fix the faults there, so that it is absolutely clear that it is the Council that controls the arrangements for money. That's the perfect key. It's not private officials, it's as fancy as they're now. This should not be their private concern. Why don't we just put our hands together and fix this for a second?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u44	A respectable president. Now I have heard both speech and literature and have seen pictures at the height. Secretary of finance has a nose for math. Since he is written for this piece of paper, I find it Spanish to see that on page 18. 7 Underdeveloped debt and property goals, it's word for word: The urban cold state has improved recently, which includes the fact that there are only a small number of rural communities with debt of more than 150% of their regular income compared to 13 at the end of 2014. What I think is a little strange about this is that ◯NOWH is not even talking. Then we have a number that is defined as "sharpensy " and that the situation is better than it ever was. I can naturally define this, but the number is 110,12, probably less than 13. Now I know what to do. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy is just interested in math, which, in fact, I haven't. Has he heard anything from the math on the figure of the toss?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u45	Mr. President. No, I don't know that number, but this is an interesting figure in connection with a bill submitted by three o'clock. For example, members of the Independence Party on minimum response reduction because these issues have a rather strong bond. No matter how many rural communities have debts above 150%, they are not very many that are below the normal range that happens in general. My partner's debt is a major concern. For the use of words, it might have made more sense to write a number than to use the word "necessary. " I think of the word pirahã, spoken somewhere in Brazil. There are no numbers, just concepts for a lot and very little, and there is very little difference between humans as to how much and how little is considered. I think we've come to the pirão-Cential use here. I don't have any better answers than what. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg Gunnarsson for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u46	I now realize in this conversation, Smári Mccarthy, that here we have found a solution for the future government without numbers, it would be most comfortable for those who are running here today. You could say that we're only going to fix things a few times, which could be a lot or a little, because numbers have the ability to explain things in context. I don't know, if this is the argument that this council proposal should be carried out, I'll share at least the burden of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u47	Thank you. A senator for this comment. Although I'm very against him, I think it would be a rather bad idea to stop using numbers. But perhaps it would be better to put some money, and even use it as a word, in the structure of the wood, even using some, perhaps a few coins to improve the health and education system and all the other systems. That'd be fine. I'd rather not mention any numbers. But we're talking about financial policy where there are no numbers on these specific points, so I don't know what course to take. In fact, the government has been in these litigations, which are considerable and significant for our society over the years, as has always been and will always be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. His representative, who was very interesting, spoke to him. I'm going to have my answer in Icelandic if he's up to a conversation about a language in faraway worlds, especially without numbers, because I like words more than numbers. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A senator about what he came in on, and I also heard last night under midnight when we discussed quite serious things, such as whether these laws on public finances were simply the constitution. Now I know what to do. A senator is a very interested member of the Constitution, and he knows it well. Let me get this straight. Can a senator read that he believes that the General will not be bound by the five - year financial policy that will be approved here? The reason I ask is that without being a great prophet, I pretend to know who the song will be when more expenses are started. It will be referred to in this frame, referred to Generalis's hands, and I do not talk about the development of financial plans in the following days. Senators can do little or nothing within this framework. I share my thoughts with them. A senator, if I read his words correctly, that it conflicts with the Constitution and the General financial authority. I wanted to pray. A senator about to come into it a little bit better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u49	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the question. That is a very good question, and to a large extent, it turns to the setting up of the government structure of the land. Now I'm not a lawyer any more than a what. A senator is a mathematician, as was repeated in his case yesterday, so I may not be the best person to enter a government case. I think, though, that if we should consider this, it is the standard that public financial law is mostly valid, mostly in accordance with a constitution, but that there are laws that conflict with national administration because it means that the General Assembly is allowed not to make decisions on the precise distribution of funds in certain matters but only to some pots. As a result, the Council will be able to agree with any budget it might offer. It will be the government's requirement that this conflict with financial and financial policies, but it's still up to the General. The problem is that the Council has only these pots under these laws. Now I'm very interested in the government ship of the country. Although I'm not a lawyer, I think that one of the things that would help me so much is the phenomenon that is seen in most countries, but that somehow has not been used here, that i.e. that there is a administrative court, a administrative court, which has the privilege of examining the law and checking the requirements of the constitution. We have no such thing here at least, so I don't know, so at least it's never been used. If we had, it could at least be tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In many ways we agree on this, and I find it very interesting to wonder how you can continue working on it. I believe that unless the law is better than no law, it must be careful, especially when it comes to the important role of sharing the combined funds that society earns. This is called one of the largest bill of government. I'm a little surprised by the indifference of the executives during the discussion. I count to seven o'clock. The council members have participated in the discussion until now, of course, of the highest order. Minister and chief. Chairman of the budget board and manager. It would have been nice to have a word with others about this subject. I'd like to go to the end and ask what. A member of the council how he feels about this law, which is in addition to public financial law, that the official's annual spending will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product over the period. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator to put it in a synonym that gets legal requirements until the next five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u51	Mr. President. A land shall be built by law, but a land shall be desolated. I don't agree with what. A senator for not being better than no law, I can't say... [[Up front.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u52	I told you they were worse than no law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u53	- Okay, in that case, I agree. Senator. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear very much, it's the worst kind of error to reverse the meaning of words altogether. Then we agree. I'm glad that's clear. Then the question that may be more important in this context. Of course, the government has time to decide what to do with its financial policies. Of course, the General has the right to make comments to them as we do here. The specific point to place a roof on expenses - if the roof was high enough to cover everything that had to be done with it, that would be okay. I don't necessarily think it's the wrong methodology or, yes, it's the wrong methodology, but it's not wrong to have such a reference, it's just the wrong reference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u54	Mr. President. We're still talking about a council agreement on financial policy in the year 2017s22022. At the beginning, I'd like to say that I'm generally more in favor of making plans and setting a course. It's good to have a vision and to know where the meaning is. The policy on this subject is no slight policy, it is a policy of where to take Iceland's community for the next five years. In fact, it would have been far better if all of us, the 63 members, had been here on deck, including the highest. Ministers, but not just the highest. The financial and economic minister who, although not here right now, has followed this discussion and participated in it according to the events. There should be a lot more here to talk about this. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur did a good job of discussing it in a speech last night, and it was also presented in a verbal exchange. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr and Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér here that the funds and legislators are always in the hands of the Generals, and that the Generals can change things, but here it is a little bit vague and it seems to be theirs to each other. But regardless of whether or not something can be converted to, e.g. It doesn't change because this is a policy setting that marks the line to come. Our policy is pretty clear. The problem with her is that she's out of shape with the needs of society. Indeed, it is important to pay off debt as high as possible. Ministers have repeated efforts, but they also need to put money on building trust, for example. The welfare and education system. It simply has to do both. There may not be anything to be done about it by this course. In fact, with this matter of Congress, as if in some cases, it really gets worse just as the discussion unfolds, as there has been a lack of difficulty. Councilmen present a program of talks and draw out and explain how badly the matter is under consideration, and give evidence of that, for example. that additional expenditures need to be made up of inefficiency and, of course, proposed to be made payable. I wondered if I should not discuss the need to strengthen the infrastructure because we've talked about it so much, but it can't be released because the interiors are the ones that keep our community together. We have to talk about transportation. We have to talk about education. We have to talk about the welfare issues because in order for everyone to be good in Icelandic society, these factors need to be okay and for them to be all right, to make sure that the funds needed are placed in place. It may vary according to times in which money needs to be added, but it is quite clear that after surgery, first of the crisis and even of the years before a crisis, although there has been an economic rise for many years, there has not been enough money in the infrastructure. Everyone feels it. It doesn't matter if we're driving somewhere on the West, or if we need to, for example. We need medical attention because we are anxious. All over the world, we feel this because there is not enough money left on these factors. I don't know why. Senators or the general public, who I don't know exactly how closely this discussion we've been having today and yesterday on this matter, has just realized that if this policy is approved, then there's just no way that there's going to be any internal structure in it unless they're going to run it through private or private business, or as has been shown to do it with the entrance of the pension fund, which I have to say, is a little strange if they're going to run our hospitals. I don't think there's a mood for this policy in the community. Before the election, everyone agreed that infrastructure was necessary. This financial policy just doesn't assume it. If they predict the development of the economy that policy is not going to go by then, the result could simply be that it will cut down on the combination. Is Plan B, then, that the welfare system will become some kind of economy? That's why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir in his committee party. I was shocked to read it but find the tip needed and important. Mr. President. Thus, the discussion has been asked whether the criteria set out in financial policy are practical and based on solid foundation. It simply says in the bold form of a headline in the Committee of Committees, more part of the budget is that continuing economic growth is the main rationale for policy development. In view of that, I find it sobering to think deeply about the subject. paritaprevir Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir at the highest. A financial and business committee was given only 24 hours to give opinions or comments on the matter. Of course, this could not be done because going over economic conditions is only more time - consuming work than it can be done in a 24 hour period. A financial adviser also points out that uncertainty in financial policy needs to be considered in this context. Now I'm not in trouble. A financial committee, therefore, must say that when a committee's opinion is examined and that a person sees what is presented there, he or she is in charge of financial matters. As stated in Committee Component I, a smaller section of the budgetary committee, by permission of a president: It is suggested that, on the basis of economic forecasts, which is based solely on the National Organization's National Prohibition, which is thought to be inaccurate because of computer models and a discrepancies, it might have been considered as a basis for a financial proposal. These are quite a few words from a member of the committee who has gone through his job to greet visitors and make extensive progress. There's something else, we should say weird, in this matter of Congress, which is that in committees more frequently. The legal committee is not taken into account the comments of a financial body that I know as well as should be political and wide - wide. This gave us further insight into the matter, which provides numerous indications of a weakness in the course. I would like to quote what is said on page 19. 15, with President's permission: The fiscal policy is based on more economic efficiency than the uncertainty of economic forecasts. Simple calculations show that the result is very sensitive to changes in economic progress. Small variations from the forecast can lead to an overall improvement, without further action, being close to zero and even negative. In this context, it should be noted that uncertainty increases as the period progresses. Similarly, as with the target of recovery, if economic growth becomes lower than predicted, it may be difficult to achieve a target of expenses without increasing maintenance. That is, by surgery. I have to ask, like others do. Councilmen have made it: What is the purpose of financial schemes if it is not to be taken seriously? Although the discussion has been repeatedly asked, this has not been answered. There has also been no comment that I have heard of why some comments were not taken at least or somehow put in the committee's list of parts. I think it's weird. Third, I'd like to talk about selling the state banks. I wonder, " What is the course, and I'm not really close to it by listening to the discussion. ' Is sale of the government's property in banks a key requirement for financialism to succeed? At least it's the highest. Secretary of the budget is saying what. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the budget board, also came up with the need to discuss specifically how the sale on the banks should be handled, I don't feel quite clear whether this sale is essential to the policy and how it hangs together. In fact, it says that in a committee program, most of it is bad. The budget board, with permission of the President: ▪ One of the biggest uncertainty teams in the period of policy development has to do with the sale of state funds, particularly their share in business banks. So something is now being assumed that there may be something sold. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: To a large extent, the subsidence of the State's debt is determined by the way it sells these assets. V.E.G. President. Now a lot of discussions have been discussed and asked when it is good or desirable to sell a bank or a bank. I believe that I can quickly accept that I alone is not fit to say exactly when it is right. To appreciate this, I would need help and advice from more informed people on the subject. But I think I can still claim it's at least It is not good to sell when the buyer knows that your major plan or policy, financial policy in this context, is based on your need for the money. At least I'm a good enough capitalist or I have enough understanding how capitalism works to know that it's bad when you're going to sell something whether it's a bank or some other company. That's why I hate how vague and stick to all of this. It is not enough to take time and say: " Well, we just need to have this done in five years. It doesn't matter. I think those who have the intention of buying an item like, e.g. in banks - let's hope that they have money, even though today's news shows that you don't even need any money to buy a share in the bank, but that's a rather serious matter - could just wait, knowing that if this policy is approved, the State will need their money. Finally, I'd like to say I don't think it's time to close this matter. There's too many faults in that. It's strange to me that more things don't. Despite my previous reference work, I did not make any changes in the case. Therefore, I would like to agree with those who have been thinking about waiting to conclude a discussion on this subject until the financial agenda is submitted. It will help you to see how this policy is presented and proclaimed and what is the highest. A government thinks that he can actually do for the inside, for the community, with the money underneath. I think it sounds better than setting a five-year policy. Although I've said before that the funds are always Generals, we senators have to keep it that this is not the way it is, it's not just a goal, it's a political statement of what it's willing to do to run society. Because it's so weak, we need to look into it in a more context, even because it's a new process, it's all done in an environment that's new and strange for us senators, but more so for those who tell the news about what's going on here in front of the media and for the public who's watching the case. This, on its own, makes me feel that there is good reason to take it slowly, take one step at a time, and even think about it in context. Therefore, I think it might be good to have already seen how the financial strategy will be carried out in accordance with the policy presented here. It would be best to see the budget as well, but I realize that there may be a lot to ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u55	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here for a second. I don't have a complete assessment of what has happened. Senator, but I took note of her wording about what we spent our money on. Hv. One senator put it in such a way that we felt that all the interior structures of our community had been cut down and could be understood by its words that none of our community's interiors were good enough. I just wanted to stop at that point. I've been a little thinking about this kind of debate in general, since we know that in this room, we all like to do well and see how we can use our best resources for the combination. I have wondered, " What effect do expressions on important matters have on people's perceptions of final words? ' A member of the council was just about how a discussion of such a subject is being conducted in the community. I'm a little bit thinking about it when it's tough. Councilmen say it so that there are no inner structures in society that are good enough, what people in general have to experience from society. Got it. A senator can resist the fact that none of society's infrastructure is good enough? I feel that this is a lot less a matter of campaigning, claiming that everything is bad and that everything is supposed to be done. I'd like to get curious first. A senator puts it this way: "Where would it be? What kind of wood would it take to fix?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u56	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir Sveririsdóttir for the counter-sponsore and the question. I don't think it really matters what we say in here about what the public's experience is on it. I think the public in this community will experience it and sense in their daily lives that they did not put enough money into the infrastructure in recent years. As I went into my speech, the situation before the collapse was that there was not enough money in the welfare system, and in the years following a crash, obviously there was not enough money to be put into the infrastructure because they didn't exist, even though priorities were tried. So now, in the last term, when money existed or could at least have existed, it was not. I think the situation is just so everyone feels how weak the insides are now, no matter what we say here or talk about. Although we are important and enjoyable and of course mattered, and the political discussion, of course, I don't think it's an important point. You can probably find a place where money is sufficient. However, when we examine these larger teams, such as transportation, welfare, health, and education, I thought that everyone had agreed in the campaign that they needed to be strengthened. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's changed since the election. It didn't change after the election. If these infrastructures had to be strengthened before the election, then, of course, it has to be done after the election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I am, with all due respect for what. A senator, disagrees with her that it doesn't matter what we say here. On the contrary, it is part of our job here to have an opinion of our society, which then travels into society, although, of course, all have opinions and experiences in the ministry and other such. I repeat, I thought it was a whale. A senator overtook the river by claiming that all the interiors of society are in a paralytic state. I disagree with her about that. I wanted very briefly to come into what I feel is a very little talk about, e.g. the decision to pay off foreign debts and thus save interest costs. The cost of growth is so great that there is a great deal to say least about the future, e.g. For the infrastructure or maintaining the current infrastructure, and everyone agrees that it is necessary even if we sometimes discern where to put emphasis and how exactly to do so. I remember once when you put it on a radio show so that it would be a sin to spend so much of the government's money on nothing. That was interesting to me. I would think that it would be just political virtue to make decisions for the future, not just to build this school or this hospital and put on it eating and cutting, but just to take away the money of the State in order to build a community for better times, for the future that we want to boast about. That's exactly how I think it matters, and I want to end up asking questions. A senator, Madam President, if she doesn't think it's right to make such decisions during an investment discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u58	Madam President. I don't know if I was too vague in my case here, but I'm thinking that what we're saying in here doesn't matter how much people feel about how their social infrastructure works. Although our words are important, and we say things, I don't think it matters in this context, because I think people can really appreciate them and find them completely and regardless of what we say. Regarding debt, interest costs, and the future, I do not object that it is important to pay off debt. I completely agree with that. It's important. It's important for the future, but we have to do both, pay off debts, and put more money on the co-medication because we also thought about the future when we put money into the education system, which takes more money just to be a control of education in other OECD countries. That, of course, is part of looking to the future. The same applies to the quality of transportation. It is an investment in the future to make sure that the roads are just not worse than they are now, as they are now, and we have seen that it is happening because there is not enough money. That's why I think these two things need to be held in hand, not only to determine whether there is enough money in the infrastructure, but to plan for them. [[The president calls.]] It means, of course, that it must be paid down slowly, but of course it should. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u59	Madam President. I'm gonna go over these issues again, because they're urgent. I have to start by picking up what took place in reply. On the budget board, an excellent memory sheet received about the debt and interest fees of the state's budget and the development and the composition of the entire debt. It contains a chapter entitled "The Development of Kingdom Funds. " It is important to bear in mind that although it is virtue and the advantage of paying off debt, I have claimed that we should go slower into it, including. because it also takes time to postpone structure, as was done during the entire last terms. In view of the economic crisis and continued, and in view of the fact that it has been a good time, I believe it was a mistake to go down to the debt as quickly as has been done. It says here, by permission of the president, that's one of the important things to make loans: The non-convinced bonds are from 5% to 8.75%. - Very high interest. --VIEW'S VEATlS VERSlS OF THE SPEE PlBlBlNGS OF THE SPEECH The U.S. credit rates are less than 6%, of a loan taken in 2012, and the amount of euro debt is about 2.5% of loans taken in 2014. Both loans have solid growth and are inexpensive. If a government fund was interested in solving some of that editions, it would have to be purchased back at market prices. This means that we do not directly pay down what is in our best interests and animals, nor can we be able to cope with it. Of course, when it comes to the big pay days next year and later, it is good to have some of the benefits of subsidies. It doesn't make any difference to me that it's too expensive to postpone the structure of wood as it has been -- and it seems, in view of this government policy, that it should continue - unless they become a real champion. I find that more and more frequently during the discussion, you hear that your health systems are being built up, which is good. Somehow the other seems to be set aside, which has been discussed considerably in the community and here at the council, i.e. The billions who are expected to develop budgets for which the Minister of Social Affairs has claimed to be in line with a collective agreement and then build-up in the road system, to be set up here. Well, it seems to me, in view of this rigid schedule closed up until the next five years, that it could be really difficult. We know, and it shows in the opinion of the financial adviser and the ASI and others, that the share of income taxes in the State's funding during the past government was weak, i.e. The three - step system became a two - step system. It was not decided to continue with the collection of wealth taxes or such. The Secret Bank's Department of Money Policy insists that these measures have not been supported by money policy. In addition, these measures benefited only the taxpayers who were reasonably well off on income. The equilibrium effect of the income taxation was prior to this. Prime Minister, who is no longer a financial minister, announces a meeting today reduction of the value tax. I guess that still means an increase in something. Yes, we have two steps, 11 and 24%. I think it would be possible - since it has been previously recommended by him at the council to have this ratio around 19%, that it would have to be - that it will come about with enormous importance whatever counter measures it takes. If the food goes to a 19% worth tax level, if we make the result, everyone pays the same ratio, whether they live well or not, i.e. regardless of income or economy. The weight of the tax will be much greater for those with less than the amount of money that is normal; yes, we will receive the food at comparable prices. I don't see how these counter measures could look. In the past government, this was done only to a very limited extent, i.e. to the lesser ones. Tolls and goods were dropped, but I don't think it paid off to consumers in very small ways. However, it weakened the money policy and the economic system. Before making further adjustments in this direction, it would be wise to assume whether this has directly returned to consumers. All of this weakens the premiums under here. This too has been discussed about paying taxes for travel. The parking lot has been discussed mainly, but not much else has been added. Actually, it's only been possible to put a bedlamp tax. I think it was the Minister himself who said yesterday he could see how he slid his way into the countryside. That would be good. But there must be much more to it than talking about it. That would be part of an agreement made by state and rural society that has not been completely completed. I'm a little worried this won't work out. It's called demand expansion. We know that during the last term of the season, the cost of inflation can be broken down by a commercial palace in the foreign lands and what was done, as I traced it. What if people are going to do something like that right now? Prime Minister mentioned that insurance fees would be reduced in the terms of the term. V.E.G. The secretary of finance also spoke about it when he discussed financial policies and recommended them to reduce insurance bills. I encourage both the chairman of the legal committee and others to meditate on it. It was reduced by 0.5% in relation to the collective agreements at the same time as the birth stock is not guaranteed to the immediate future if plans apply to the subsidies, both for prolongation of the birthworm and for an increase in the roof. I feel there are a lot of things going on in the community, but not necessarily here at the council, on the part of the Ministers, who do not support what is presented here. A financial committee called this morning to visit the State Accounting and the Financial Commission. I just want to go into it for why we're concerned about this policy. We're worried that she's locked up in the way this is done, i.e. And a charger, and a bill of debt: it is shut down all round about. Then there is the assembly attendance that we've talked about, and there's reason to worry about. I think the conclusion needs to be made for that conversation. The General's agent has expressed concern with the administration and monitoring committee and this morning's state accountant. This organization and others have also declared that there may be a need to go into this process, that people did not necessarily foresee it, when they were writing the law, how many of the things that were under it would go into praxis. There is something that we need to try to figure out, whether changes need to be made now or if we are going to let this year pass and go through it to the end and then take it next year. Or what? We've talked a lot about the arrival of senators, including Because many of us feel that the transparency is not there, not in connection with the policy now, that it is reaching the plan. And while we receive the topic fields on Friday through the program, it may also be difficult to discern the breakdown that will not be evident until we make the budget. The question, then, is, What will the establishment of the budget be from budget to budget? Is she supposed to be somebody? Is that supposed to be a ministry seat? Then we will have to look for ways that we will likely have to fulfill the plan at the end of the assembly. It is not unlikely that it will be out at the end of May, during that period. Then the council is on leave. It is on leave until mid - August when a summary can be mentioned again. I wondered: " Does it mean that we do not now have an adjustment in our work schedule? Of course, the bill has always come down from the Ministry and the Minister. Then, too, we will have no effect on this turn of events until this has become a fact. Is that something we want? As we know, the disunition has no value as a legal document other than a copy, it is not a Senate document in the meaning of that word. That's why we were in trouble when we tried to make changes in December. That's one of the things we have to decide, i.e. how we should do so. I think it's clear. We have come to realize that ministers may take a different degree of attention, what was not listed in the report, do not seem to believe that it should be applied, etc. Despite the willingness to be described here at the council, even in opinions and debates, what did not directly appear in the text seems to be not included. It's something we can't wait with, we can't let a year go down in all my senses. I think there's a lot we have to worry about. I would have liked to introduce many other things in the light of the news being received today, the report on the Bank of Farmers, including the U.S.A. Because we are faced with selling the banks that have been greatly discussed in this discussion. Despite the highest. The secretary of finance says that not everything is based on the sale of banks, but he thinks that if he does not succeed in selling these organizations, I believe that today's report will make it clear that we have no choice but to make sure that the government will not be deceived. Why are the people of the land to be cared for? It went crazy in this context at the War Bank. I think it's clear that we need to make it clear who's going to take care of it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u60	A respectable president. Now we've gone through the first talks of the second round. If so, I would be happy to hear from a member of the budget board what we can learn from the mistakes we have made in this discussion and to improve the process. Are we learning from this? Do we see something that could be done better? What will happen next? It's, for example. A key element to the transparency to follow the laws on government finance is to see the next steps and how we can do better next. So on the one hand: This is exactly the key. A senator refers to this effect on the priorities the council can have, this financial administration, which is under the Constitution of the Generals. Where and when does the council have the opportunity to influence the priorities of the problems? At least I expect the Ministry to bring its list of projects: Here are all the work we can do and all the things we don't see we can't do. We've put them in this order, 1, 2 and 3, and whatever, after a timeline or by a corpse. Then we will see at a council which projects would fall in if we added money or what projects would come out if we did not give as much money to that topic. Then it is especially important to ask and key: Can we change our priorities? That is the main and main question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u61	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, there are many things we are already learning. First, we have to say that although the policy and plan were set up last year, it was in itself a little strange when it became clear that the election was ahead and the government was gone. I think, for example. That while we're studying, I'd like to have the direction open along the plan, as happened last time, I think that would be good. Then we would see if she could cover what she needs or not. If not, we could say, "This policy doesn't work out. " It's part of the transparency. 'Cause it's very omnipotent, this percentage of GDP on which policy is based. With regard to the committees, the timeline, and what projects fall in and out, and our impact on priorities, where and when, I feel we must try to see how we are going to do so. I think that's a great deal of desire for that on the Committee. The Chairman is very open to trying to improve these limitations. I think we should be able to get some kind of solidarity on that. Now it's about whether we have to live for a whole year under these labels, allow this to go through once, or if we want to change right away. I think there are some things that we need to do as soon as I mentioned. I believe we should be able to affect our priorities. But there's a question about, for example. the changes we make through the budget bill in December. The Patient Information Leaflet should then be updated. It is then a question of whether it will be submitted in January by a synonym or something so that they will have some position, and the change will be formally accepted. [[The president calls.]] It may be accepted in part in December, but it will not be here until later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u62	A respectable president. This is interesting, just this technical implementation of the copy. This is a very tricky matter regarding priorities, whether we can influence it, and we really don't know how to do it. That was our conclusion in December. that we could put the others and these instructions in a report, but that's very unclear. It is also very unclear what information we come up with with with with the budget. We're just gonna have a little more time for the field of paint... and then we're gonna stick our fingers in the air, and then we're gonna get giddy on what's inside? When it comes to the budget and the difference in budgets, we want to see what keeps us going for financial gain. We want to be able to influence it and some idea of how we can put something in it: No, we put a little more into this subject because it influences these and other tasks. Then we want to see it reflected in the budget when it comes to it. If we're just getting a whole lot of resources and big lawsuits get so much, and then there's gonna be some sort of change in it into budgets, we don't know why. It makes me feel like we're just a label office that does what a minister says, and it just goes against the constitution. Then the General will not handle its Constitutional work on the informed budget and control of Iceland's finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u63	Madam President. I thank the senator again. I think what we are facing now is this: Now the committees are dealing with this in a way that they have not done before. We get the field through the plan, that's the big package. As we get to the litigation point, I think I'm more than just the Ministry. I think they're going to have to call in all the largest organizations if they're to be serious about this job. That's why I think time is way too tight that's meant for this. What will hold back when we reach the budget? It's our job to follow it, and so is the committee, because we on the budget get the financial bill in our arms. Then we need to be in a good rhythm and interact with the members of our committees. It has happened over the years that we have placed money in certain lawsuits and have not directly influenced how this has been distributed. For example, high school is a model of distribution. There are some such institutions that we have had less impact on, but we have been able to say that we are adding extra money to Iceland's University or high school or whatever. We've been able to do that. Now, as we know, we put only 10 million, 15 million, or 100 million more into the lawsuit with some prelude that we want it to be that way. This may be what we need to figure out better because we were asked not to list this in a paper in December, whether it's what we need, or if we can break this down on the number order in the liters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She talked about the plans for personal advancement and sale of banks, which is an essential part of financial policy, should she go up. I wanted to ask you what. A senator on the report that we received today. There will now be material discussion on the report tomorrow. But there is a context that we need to look at. If we agree to financial policy for the government, which assumes that we do not have a process, we may end up in a similar privatization situation 14 years ago. The result could be exactly the same. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of how she feels about her being in the order of making financial policy that goes from selling certain assets, although we have no record of how to sell the property without becoming one of our own. I would also like to ask: How should we turn this process into a better place for all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u65	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. Personalization of the banks, the report we've already received. Maybe not many people have had a chance to look into it, at least I haven't started to do it yet, but, of course, I've already received some information from our agent left green on the board and surveillance committee, and there were some things in the news. That's why I say, "Who will protect our interests as a nation?" Who should care for the interests of taxpayers in this regard? It wasn't done there. That went crazy. We need to build trust. I have to agree with the World Bank, even though I don't do it often. I do it now because his focus is that we go slow, there's no need to rush down and sell the banks, we have to build up trust and make sure that there's a transparency. I think it's very important. I also have to trust what the chairman of the budget board has already recommended, and that is here in the Senate document. For example, a financial minister has also found that he does not necessarily consider it a reason to rush into selling the banks, but he intends to build on some premeditated money that is not available. But surely the policy is based on the fact that this is done. But in view of the greater part, it says that the matter must come to the council and that the process of selling the banks needs to be settled. Even foreign assistance is spoken of. I think it's good. We need to get started right away. Whether we plan to sell for the summer, next year or the next year, we cannot wait. [[The president calls.]] It takes time. That kind of trust doesn't exist in zeros. Especially after all the information that we now receive from day to day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u66	Madam President. I appreciate the answer, and I'll agree with that. There are many things we need to consider in this regard. I haven't really read all of this yet, but I'm well along. It's like a good fleece of reading. There's all kinds of action scenes. One of the things in the story is that the state also received assistance from abroad last time it was done, from the HSBC bank. It was their assessment that the S- group had a better facility for the very survival of Hauck & Aufäuser of the bank. I'm a little suspicious that having some finery on foreign assistance guarantees everything that has to be guaranteed. That's why I think the problem we're having here in a discussion about financial policy is that it's about to tie the hands of the government at any distance and possibly even the Generals, depending on how you interpret the administrative issues. This is being done on the basis of the fact that banks have to be sold, which, first of all, cuts the status of government funds as the bank seller, since all potential buyers have to be sold and must be paid. And then there's the other side of this coin, it's not a secure process. Watch your step. A senator might say a little more about how this is going to work for him?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that foreign assistance was silent, and this alone does not solve the problem. But need we not conclude that after the study report, after this report, the savings report, and some of the reports we have received, and showing how these were done, we will become more careful? It's just that you have to try to rely on, that now you walk a little slower about the door of joy in these subjects. Given the plans here, although to the highest level. The secretary of finance is trying to tell us that he does not necessarily have to sell the banks, can reduce the price of selling the stock market. There is talk of subsidies, but it is said by financial advisers, by ASI, and others that it is based on a weak foundation. It may be what worries you, though they are not an inexhaustible fountain. That's why it's not really there. This is indicated in these opinions, however, we have not failed, either in a committee or on the part of a minister. That's what you worry about. If it doesn't work out, what does that mean? Does that mean we're seeing a lot of cuts in our infrastructures, health and education systems? Or does it mean that we see an increased privatization because this government thinks it's cheaper and it's a better service if we go that way? I'm much worried that it might be what we're going to look at in the face if the economic moods went down too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u68	A respectable president. It is good to be able to grasp the subject again, especially after this tremendous study report has been released. The financial policy itself, an article with it, and a majority of its opinion, is said to need to seek the opinion of a foreign expert, and so on. That is why I have to wonder, in effect, that the Chairman of a boy. Fundament Committee, what? paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, may not be in the hall. Also, I wonder that I don't see any of the highest. Minister here. Given how extensive and dramatic our efforts are, I think this is the right time point for them to be in the audience. The discussion has been good and perfunctory, and I think a better conversation is necessary between the management and the executives, to protect their own document. I'm not gonna do it when it comes time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u69	President. I agree with the viewpoints of the day. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðrún Helgadóttir. I think it's very important that we ignore the fact that we are now for the first time working under the official financial law from the foundation, i.e. by promoting financial policy, then financial programs, and then prospective financial bill on the basis of it. In this regard, we are all at the General Assembly to take our first steps. We all appreciate just as much how good this tool is. More important, as we reason here, we need the content and content of the matter, which is the main point, i.e. The great and hard right policy displayed here is discussing the methodology presented here and basically whether or not the course is normally to be completed before we have seen the plan. We can actually watch this together. It is a very bad feeling for the council to lock us all up in a straitjacket to five years of age without having seen a slightly better country with what it means materially. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u70	Madam President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. The members of Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir and Siggi Svavarsdóttir have said. It is remarkable that, on the one hand, we are talking about a huge first - time set without knowing what the next phase of the process will be, and we don't know what the financial agenda will be. We can't tell what she looks like. In addition, we are doing so almost without the administrative issue being involved. Thank you for the attention you've given me. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir has given it. She sat with us last night and she's still sitting with us, but there's a lot more in the top of the board. I counted 32 last time I tried to count, and one of them, which I find quite remarkable, that I did not mention this point, is the highest. Prime Minister. You see, this case is not a personal matter. Secretary of finance. V.E.G. The prime minister likely made this document and has to follow it himself. Why isn't he in a house?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u71	A respectable president. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity and post my talk, since it is about this subject. I'd love to see the highest. I lost his answer last night to a cabinet minister in an antiquated chair, who did not enter his answer until my fourth part, and was very jealous of their answers. I take my heart to the words of the first speakers here, in the past for President's conference board, and expect many audiences and audiences to follow my talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u72	A respectable president. After the discussion last night, I looked at it, and I kind of expected the highest. Secretary of the budget and what. The chairman of the legislature board was sitting and rewritten the proposal. Such were the evidence of yesterday's changes. I did not hear them protest strongly or firmly from those companions. I can see why. The chairman of a legal committee is seated in the side room, so I say, as the man said in the courts when he stopped by town and got a plate of the pieces he used to house in a short time: Thank you for what has come, hope to get more. It would certainly be nice to have the highest power. Secretary of finance. As I mentioned in my speech yesterday, it is quite extraordinary that there are no more top ones. Ministers are helping to explain to the U.S. and national how they see this community for the next five years because that's what we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u73	A respectable president. Surely we'll discuss something very important here. I've been keeping a close eye on this discussion. To come to the highest. Secretary of the budget and what. To protect them, they have sat in parallel rooms, and it's so fun to know that here all talks are taken down, both in sound and in image, and in writing, so I know that members of Congress are being watched in many places. It has to be said, just as it is, that we may be at the point in our discussion that we are a little starting to repeat ourselves. I feel like I'm hearing the same things a bit often. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé offered last night to go up to the cabin with another senator and rewrite his policy so it's a question of whether there's any such paper coming out of his head. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u74	Madam President. I have to agree with them why. Councilmen here who have come to criticize the total indifference of the government against their financial policies or perhaps not total but considerable apathy. I'm interested in hearing from more advisers than I am in charge. Secretary of finance on how they believe this financial policy affects their seminaries, their projects, their plans, their elections, and their promises when they met this government together. I can't see how it'll be done if they sit here in any side rooms or watch TV at home because they can't come up in a pit and talk to us about this financial policy and how they think it will, for example, be done. contributes to the structure of the infrastructure or something like that. At least I don't have a conversation with my TV screen, and that rarely leads to illuminating discussions at that time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u75	Madam President. I'm going to join my friends. A senator may find that we are beginning to repeat ourselves. This has happened over the years and will certainly happen again, and it has sometimes improved the discussion. This has increased information, and people have become something closer. I think that, for example. has happened here last night, that people have become something closer to what is being discussed here. I'm really worried that members of the government parties and even some of the smaller parts also don't know enough about what this is, what is actually being done with this policy, that we are being locked up in a box that is not foreordained for state lawsuits, i.e. all the institutions under which they live. There is reason to discuss it here, so people can see it. Then there's the other, there's not enough to watch. If we really want to have a meaningful conversation, the Generals also need to participate in protests and arguments, e.g. why they disagree with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u76	A respectable president. I have to come up here for the second time, since TV is not a Al Parliamentis seminar. Yes, the discussion can be observed, but it is the seminar. The discussion needs to be done here. She doesn't ask for Facebook, she doesn't ask for the TV, she doesn't do it by yelling at the clouds. No, it's taking place here, and it's the role of the management section to show that these nine pages, eight if we don't count the appendix, which is a good document. And it is true that others have. This is a vast language group, and this is a way of saying that we really need more of the highest power. Minister in here. How's the top? Health Ministers financing the health - care system? How's the top? A secretary of transportation to finance the construction of the road system? These are all questions that must be answered by the board of directors and that is the basis for this document, these eight pages, and the discussion needs to be conducted here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u77	A respectable president. Repeating is good. My college instructor explained to me that it is necessary to repeat itself in order for the message to go well enough. In some ways, he put it this way: 1. First, tell them what you will tell them. 2. Tell them. 3. Then tell them what you were telling them. This was point number 2 and then it was point number 3: I was trying to explain to you how repetition is very important in the whole process, to realize what I'm trying to express myself, how others can answer them even, and to ask more clearly what I meant so that I can better explain myself over and over again. Repeating is essential if we are to gain a mutual understanding of what we are trying to express ourselves. You see, the language is a small inaccurate device, and we often need to repeat ourselves to make sure that everyone understands what we are trying to communicate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u78	A respectable president. The repetition has been quite a topic of discussion here. I'm trying to cause it. paritaprevir Don't be disappointed in Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir by not repeating me too much, but it's absolutely accurate that repetition can be a good thing. [[Up front.]] I needed, for example. Repeating the test in a book entry three times, that was a good thing for me. I graduated as a student. Repeating can be the best thing to do. We are discussing this blessed subject, which is not the very best case, i.e. These little bulges here with one blank opening at the back because they did not even have to use the pages that the ark offered. This is the frame around the world as the highest society. The independence government, the bright future, and the restoration are preaching in Iceland for the next five years. I reviewed it in my speech yesterday - and in view of new information about interest. Councilmen with talks about other people's problems. Senators don't need much to refer to it, I trust they're in deep care that they either watch a speech or read it if it is written - what the importance of this matter is, how financial advice will draw it up for us in a simple and easy - to - understand manner, which is good for men like me. It's simply, as has been observed in many people, and I'm sorry to resort to the repetition, a frame within everything to be bedridden. This is the frame of financial policy that will appear over the next few days, and this is the frame that each year's budget then sets, the outer box about the internal ones that the financial policy puts on the budget. There's a lot of walking around here. This is not even a frame plan. This is not just some bill that needs to be shared in a discussion, and then people can continue to be content with life. That's a big political thing. If we're not supposed to be dealing with politics at the Generals Hall, I don't know what we're going to do. These are serious comments or speculations, such as whether public financial laws pass a constitution. There is an interesting question that I have shared in and is something that we should take a little seriously when discussing these matters. I think it doesn't matter how you turn in it, you can't take the money from this room. You can't say: No, we've put here some outer frame we agreed on in the months of 2017, so we can't do what we're going to do in the fall of 2019. That's what's going to be done. Sometimes I feel like a lot of cogs. Senators didn't quite realize that. I sometimes feel overwhelmed by the conversation that always seemed a little strange to me about handling budgets in December. I felt like a lot of guys. Congress officials felt that there was simply nothing to be done. Don't add money, don't move expenses, you can't suggest the changes in the budget that Congress would like to see, individual classes. At least in some places, that payment was a great deal of joy, and it spoke of great peace. It is easy to make peace if it is to be put through a bill that is so constant. If, in fact, the funds of the state's budget is divided into the drinking, if everything is ready in some large stripe that goes through automatically, then it is very easy to talk about reconciliation. A photocoper does quite well and is in great agreement, since it always produces new and new copies, but it is not Polish. I only came into it yesterday, or probably didn't come into it, probably one of the few things I didn't come into last that I was going to discuss, that the secretary of finance and others have discussed that this frame, the new method we used is to be a Scandinavian model, a Norwegian model, referred to until and stability of the government's finances, which is good and blessed. It is very good to achieve some sort of stability as far as possible. It's like looking at the countries around us, the Norwegian states, that we're seeing something that may be forgotten during the discussion and especially at the highest level. The minister of finance, which is a social stability, which is the stability of paymen, is a stability of housing. We're looking up at everything, a whole different model here. I sometimes think it's the highest. Ministers, both present and last government, overlook it, be beginning at the wrong end. They're supposed to put some frame around contracts in the labour market and here, but they ignore the fact that they're missing the other side of the coin, this social stability that may be the basis for it to be different when it comes to contracts in a labour market or financial agreements. We're putting a frame here and trying to force him into something that doesn't belong there right now. We've been talking about, and we've been in the woods, which I think is the fashion word of the decade, everyone was going to advance the infrastructure. I made it a pleasure to read me through the campaign halls of Birt's future and campaign halls of resurgence. I wish I were good at assuming that what's promised to do in these campaign policies cost the price. It costs the shilling, for example. The restoration is rated in health and welfare matters, approved at Council 24 September 2016. It's been six months? They need to improve health, improve prevention, complete the Hospital, build up in aging services, home nursing, and nursing homes, support of health care facilities, a waiting list for health care needs to be shortened, reimbursed health insurance. It's all gonna cost money. Nowhere is it said: All of this, however, must be confined within the fluency. That didn't say one candidate in front of the election. That's what the present candidates say. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers now, however. For the sake of this time, I can't amuse a Senate by reading out of the Bjart's topic log of the future. To avoid having too much fun, I did not get into the campaign focus of the Independence Party. [[Up front.]] I trust that everything stood there like a cane on a book and everything was guaranteed responsibly, I can hear it at the moment. That's my colleague in the gym. You see, this is what I'm saying, about setting up elections and praising all beautiful things, coming after elections, saying, "Yes, in fact, I meant that the tax system, which Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, come up, it can't be taken lightly. We're going to put extra roofs on our heads, we're going to put in cashier roofs so we're sure we're not going to spend too much, and it's going to all go down in the economy. I would have liked to have this conversation with the candidates before the election. That would have been very honest. Then we could have gone to elections and talked to different ideologies, for that is what this is all about; either to promote the combination and the things that come with it or to starve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u79	A respectable president. The budget may be to disappear from the council hall with these laws on public finances, but it can't be done. One advantage I'm seeing in the law is that it reduces its impact and may remove the ballot that has been so bad in the past. A pool of soil is described as an unsanctioned decision on budget management, because a certain area was given to a member of Congress in the district, not another area, that is being carried out in the territory of the senator but not based on the professional choice of its entire district or even the whole country. Then the senator mentioned the photocopy. In fact, I thought it was an interesting comparison, and I would like it to be something similar to a photocopying machine that could help us with, for example. The financial work where we could post jobs and get expenses, perhaps a little complicated. But something like a National Economic Institute or some General Work Centre that will offset the facilities that we members of the Parliament have for the Commission could help and that is, I am absolutely necessary to achieve the objective of the law. Then we will have some objection to this authority from above as it appears. Of course, it has the highest power. Ministers to represent the council, but this seems to be the legal arrangement for public financial matters, which is unfortunate. We have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u80	A respectable president. It's good to have a place to say. Senator on the nature of photocopying machines. I didn't see it coming when I went to Congress this morning that it was waiting for me today. But the engine was fast enough. A senator spoke of where you insert the premise and receive the cost, not a photocopying machine, but some kind of computer that calculates it. I totally agree with what. A senator said that it is difficult to see that the Council is not properly equipped to provide assistance, access to experts, and proper assistance to those substances. We already see that this issue, either this or the financial policy that comes, will be referred to a committee that will have a few days to calculate within the framework of the next year or year. It is obvious that equalizing the support of the council is different, i.e. the legislation and the execution authority. As a result, we have too much to do with the development of the initiatives, coming in here, and making them little or no changes in some cases, and this is how they go through. That's what a Xerox machine does. The poor photocopies of political meetings over the years, I realize that there's always the same thing coming out of it as it goes. It's a bit of the stuff I thought was here on the budget of December. I'm afraid the next time the budget is over, there'll be a slight factor, and they'll be referred to the frameworks that have been approved here. I'll come to the ball after, I forgot.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u81	A respectable president. That's exactly what I was going to do. A senator at the ballot. Regarding the photocopies, I used it as an introduction to a discussion of more mechanicalization or at least a process of privatizing to assist us members of the Parliament. I'm gonna explain the ballot a little bit more. I am a member of the Reykjavík District of the North, and maybe because I am on a budget committee rather than some member of the city of Reykjavík, I could speak better for a walk across the street in the city of Reykjavík, which would be more appropriate in the city of Reykjavík. That's the core of the ballpark, this unconventional decision-making thing. In the end of each election season, there will be a time when some piece of shit scatterer will start off with money running through the countryside and spread out to the right places as votes and promises apply. I had this experience during the 2013 election campaign when a man went to a ballot meeting, and members of Congress were asked if they were going to finish the meeting and this project that everyone said yes to everything. The fact is, in every local community all over the country, people are asking just the same questions that everyone always says yes. It doesn't work. It's not working. It doesn't happen that way. We must keep our priorities in the vicinity of our territory, where they decide in their neighborhood which priorities are priorities. It comes to them eventually after a certain professional process, depending on various calculations, it should be possible to use it better. Instead of choosing how to make wise use of the money in a professional way, we would take away their power and replace it with a professional process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u82	A respectable president. Yes, it is. A senator's decision should be made on professional grounds and a description. The senator's promise of elections rhymes well with what I talked about, since it was not a unique project but was praising entire political parties to the structure of the health system. I think I remember over 80 of you. signature as maximum. Ministers received and rejoiced to raise health - care expenses to 11% of GDP. I don't see it in this financial policy. But we will never escape the fact that decisions made by generals and politicians are far too political. There will never be a system that figures out, saying, "Hey, all the evidence points to the fact that this is going to be done now, and then this, and then this. And that would remove any political or human assessment of it. The system that went down. A senator would remind me of a travel plan, i.e. how to calculate the needs and costs, and how to proceed. Is that not a good description of a transport plan? We've seen what happened to her. I agree that anything that reduces the levels of promise before elections or anything that makes them think that people have to keep their promises after election is a benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u83	A respectable president. I've been watching these discussions the whole time that I've been going through this matter and I haven't been disfellowshipped. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé wrote about the promises of political parties and their appearances, what they say in a campaign, and what they show up after the election. As a result, I'd like to say: " I think it's okay for us to talk about these things. In fact, I lost only a thread when my associates talked about photocopies earlier, but that's all right. Such is the case in Sweden, which we often compare with, taking a little into account in the government legal arrangement, that political campaigns or campaigns are to be discussed. I've thought about this a lot, after we were in this process, whether it would be wise to take this step to meet the viewpoint the senator had in his speech, because you notice entirely in the campaign that people speak in different ways about money. You listen to politicians say things, and often you say: Wow, they'll sweat about it some day. The question is, How would the senator react to it if we were to introduce it into law when we reviewed the legislation - I think it is not a question whether or when we need to do it - that political elections, campaigns, campaigns would have to be agreed on by a financial hearing before they were actually valid votes in the General election.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. An interesting answer from a senator. I trust that he will support me in the future by asking for a special discussion on the photocopying machines so that we can keep them in our thoughts. I'm very impressed with the idea that election promises are worth money. In the left green, we did it before the last election. What has stuck with far too many political and political parties for far too long is to be more diligent in praising the projects and expenses than to explain how to finance all of them. In many cases, funding means an increase in tax returns, for example. Sadly, for some reasons, taxation has been introduced into the mouth of some abuses. Taxation is a financing of the overall consumption. Taxation is what it costs all of us to participate in the human society we live in. Sadly, all too often political parties have been reluctant to explain how to earn what they are not reluctant to explain how they are going to spend. As far as a campaign policy has to go to a financial body for it to become valid; I think the idea is interesting. In the spirit of freedom of speech and of such, I do not know how to say that a campaign policy is not valid. But if she got a plunger from the financial council, there would be a natural obvious difference between the campaign policy groups it did and those who did not do so in the eyes of voters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's worth a lot of attention to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u85	A respectable president. Now that I've been watching the discussion from the beginning, I'm sorry I'm feeling that things are just being diluted, I'm not putting out what people are saying. Now I have read all the minor hibernations, and they are each a good summary of people who have worked on a financial committee to analyze the information presented there; they are a good witness to conscientious people, so that I just say so, because I want a speaker to be recognized also by what is well done, and when people work hard to do it. My business at what? There is now only one suggestion in these four minorities, from the 2nd smaller section, to the law of debt. There is financial policy and the opinion of the greater part, and certainly it does not have any adjustment, but in itself I am no closer to the policy of the lesser parts after reading the minor aluminium. Don't include them in any of the changes I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I have also read the reviews of the committee, and I agree with that. A senator's commendation is to be given, and there are many things that he does well. It is true that there is one direct adjustment. I have to admit, I can't speak for those who put this minor opinion on the subject, but I hope so. A senator would agree that in minor colours, excessive criticism of the bill is often to be found. Whether such criticism is presented in the reports or whether a direct adjustment is made is made. Is it a position to make a change in government financial policy? I don't know. I'm new to the council, so I don't completely figure out what the proper way to do it is. Will is made clear in the minority view. I would have thought that this would bring him up with a discussion on the subject. As far as the majority's opinion was concerned, I was a little surprised that there's a lot of things there, warnings, and uncertainty about some things I would have thought could be done better. Still, it is suggested that this be agreed on as well. I'd have wanted that question in my previous answer, so I could have turned her over at what. A senator: How is it that according to the opinion of the greater part, something that doesn't have to be fixed so that it can be fixed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u87	A respectable president. I'm going to continue on the same page as my last discussion ended. V.E.G. The minister of finance has asked several members of the council what the leftovers and the rest of the state's funds should be according to them. It describes, as we have answered in the past, the position of the members of Congress where my members are not in a position to promote financial policy on their own terms. The smaller portion needs assistance to economic analysis, which the Minister has at the Ministry of finance and elsewhere, in order to work according to the usual practice. However, I encourage us to go in the direction of the government or individual minority groups to provide financial, financial, financial, and financial initiatives, similar to what is being done. correspondent in Sweden In my first speech, I reviewed the committee opinion. That was a technical consideration. I'd like to talk about the deeper notes on financial policy usually as I have understood it and that the discussion about it should be done. I might as well not talk about this, I might not be able to warn about the streets and flaws that are found in financial policy. If this financial policy remains to be agreed, it will be a priceless warrant for the rest of the season for me to be a member of the Continental Assembly. I could use it at every opportunity in the coming budget to ask, "How does this fit with financial policy? Or, "Where do we mention this in financial policy? " You see, this policy is half empty, including... technically. There are certain laws that need to be met. This means that you can make a U-turn at a convenient time. It's very convenient to take U-turns and set sails along the wind, but it doesn't necessarily mean that we get to our destination in the most practical way. We can take a very large U-turn in the wrong direction because the winds are like that right now. If we were to stay on course, we would reach where our goals are set, where the policy says we're going if we wrote it on a different level. If we don't write it down, it's interesting that our policy is against the baselines on firmness and stability, which are the aims of government law. If we don't write what the policy is, it's empty, there's a certain point in it that she needs, she's on the basis of a firm and stability that's a bit ironic, according to the slogan of one of the administrations. It would be more correct to have a clearer direction, at least the course should contain the legal requirements. In addition, it is one of the main roles of us at the General to make decisions on our common funds, to accept funding, while the aims of a government law are to create more confidence. But this course, as empty as it is, does not meet that requirement. The policy offers U-turns without violating any financial policies. Because there's no law to do what I want without my considering the course. President. I find it strange that there is nowhere to be found in financial policy for the next five years, issues such as the health system, the welfare system, the educational system, the transportation system, and the community, to mention, to name, the issues we are discussing in financial matters. They need some insight in the financial agenda, and they need to be explained in the financial policy how they highlight the baseline values set out in the laws on public finance. Now we are on a different road with members of the Parliament on this matter, and what I expected would not happen. I expected senators, some members, I thank them very much, and wish for their imitation, to take speeches to assure Congress and nation that all campaigns within the framework of the policy could be met. It's interesting that we're going into a process we don't know how to do. We're learning this in a speech chair, we're realizing what should be in it and what not, apart from the legal practices given to us. How ironic that the government has established a government covenant that I write my speech on the back! There are various expenditures, but for some reason the work of the Treaty is not mentioned in financial policy. I expected officers to beat their breasts here and say that this would be their case in financial and financial terms. I was hoping to see the government council members participate in discussions with government opposition to explain how economicism will bring the government contract into the budget. Here, members of the management committee have presented their views slightly. The chairman of the legal committee said that banks would be sold. This was just surprising and has been brought back a little by saying that nothing is on, but it is still a little bit different exactly what the course is there. It is understandable that members of the government do not have much to do, since their policy is very empty, and then there may be little to talk about. But let us look only at the government covenant. It is spoken, e.g. The section on health care, on safe and sound health care that becomes the top priority of the government. You can't find in financial policy. The construction of the Land Hospital is spoken of on Ring Road. It's on course. It is said of academicism, that the government will promote an all-school level to be promoted to a high-school level. It's not on course. Support the university in maintaining quality. It's not on course. Emphasis on teaching in creative articles, programming, design, and engineering, and campaigns in traditional articles. It's also necessary, it's not on course. It is culture, that good looks will be supported by research and development and the role of competitive funds extended to research in creative fields. Not on course. Legal projects continue, it's a good billion remembering, and it's not a policy. Economics and stability, long-term goal is that there will be no clean financial debt within ten years. I think it's a bit of a big deal, considering that the client said it was normal to maintain some market interest, etc. It's very complicated. In tax issues where part of the policy requires not to talk about the development of taxes, the agreed system of green taxes is spoken of. It's not in financial policy, yet it's in the government covenant. In the environmental and resource sectors, it is said that the design of the access rights of public resources should be transparent. This, I would think, is a bit of economic development, but nothing in financial policy. There should be increased growth in transport development in all areas. It's not in financial policy. Equally the cost of the population from having legal basic services. Not in financial policy. Strategic policy? It's gonna cost you. It's not in financial policy. The situation is that this policy is clear as to the decline in the debt of the state, but its policy is clearly not clear regarding the government covenant. In terms of the financial expenses promised by the government deal, the billions released from a very noble project seem not to cover the expenses required. It is divided into two parts, essential expenses, an investment need. It is not in the government covenant, the Constitution speaks of additional expenses to be paid. The amount of money referred to for income or exploitation of expenses does not completely match, so lower expenses are spent in other ways, during the expenses spoken of by the State Department. This, however, has solutions, an increase in income. It does not necessarily have to be a fictitious tax increase, it usually refers to certain resource expenditures that could be an increase in income, but there is a suitable increase in income in the upplicity of the economy, so beyond what the economic crisis itself produces, in order to be the more aggressive, repeated. It could also be used in monotonously, but economicism simply forbids it, no matter where it comes from. You see, the policy is very direct in this regard. Therefore, the management board must follow, even if some projects are offered more effectively than the benefits of less interest will result. It's a huge limitation. It will be very interesting to observe how the board pursues its policy. I could not talk about this. I could not point out the flaws in policy. If I didn't, I'd be a bad government senator. You see, my role is quality control and how intelligently it would be to allow the government to work on this policy. I believe that the conclusion would be bad for the nation, not necessarily economic, if economic growth continues, it will probably be all right, rather because the people must be built up by the General. Government laws are, in effect, a tool for building trust for politicians by offering a government to set and accept a policy that needs to be followed. Even according to lawistic thinking, which is very known within at least one of the administrative categories, following the rules. It will then be carried out in the Senate arrangement for financial policy. It is far more effective for law - thinking people than it is for the government. It binds the hands of lawmakers a little more, and it may be possible to push more carefully after they apply what they say. But get out of the way with your loops and U-turns in with a plan and a vision. Trust comes so if people realize they're following policy. By saying as little as possible and returning an empty course, no responsibility is taken, and when no responsibility is taken, there is no trust. Trust in the Council has now been reported to be 22%. I called it a bunch of junk, if you're gonna use an illustration to borrow, trash class, or something like that. We do not want to be there on credit; neither do we want to be there with confidence. So I call in the General Assembly, calling for a discussion on financial policy with regard to the government covenant. Because the responsibility of the Treaty is finally a prime minister, I call for an explanation of how this policy fits with the government covenant. I call for prime minister, even though I do not trust that what he says is accurate. But with a little discussion about policy, it would be at least can pledge words, and this is an opportunity to build trust. The goal of building trust, e.g. Ministers are required to promote, is extremely important, and should be above the authority of each minister and senator. President. Here is an opportunity for the government to stake his word and reap accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u88	Madam President. Hv. A senator had advertised his speech, and I eagerly waited for it. I have to say, she didn't have all my expectations, but it's got to be said that it wasn't. A senator has spoken in all his language. I know he knows well this process that's thought-of now, i.e. So we set up a financial policy that is wrapped around the government's expenses. In a financial program, this will be done on specific issues, so that is, of course, the explanation. A senator calls for why the policy will not be clearly defined as to how individual issues will be affected. It will appear in the budget. It is very important in the thought behind this process that there are men with separate processes, i.e. Start with the box, start thinking: What is it we want to be the main policy? Like what? A senator pointed out that this will be a very well met by the government contract for a reduction in debt. Actually, I have to say what. A senator praised the fact that when he read a part of his speech from the government covenant, I loved the best that has been said here today. There are simple explanations to explain why this is so. I know that the senator realizes that this is a process, and it will highlight these unique points that he mentioned in a financial program that will come later this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u89	A respectable president. I apologize for not meeting the brightest hopes. Minister, but I think it's the highest. Ministers tend to minimize my case with a joke, so I can get it out of my way. Yeah, I know the whole thing pretty good. On the other hand, I've been learning a lot more about the process and what is missing at each spot. The budget is to refer to policies and baseline levels. The financial policy should confirm how it depends on the baseline values. Once we're down to the budget, they can't exist in the void I'm trying to describe. We need to be able to see financial programs and understand when there is a talk for an increase or decrease in some subject: Yes, I expected this because it is in financial policy. I know it's going up or down next year because it's in financial policy. There is no need to stand there precisely, there is enough to say that there will be emphasis, e.g. Healing of the health system. When I look at the financial program, I see that there's an increase in the seminary and I say, "Okay, that's what they said in financial policy, now I know the number. That's how I call for discussions about finance policy because it's put in for the next five years. If we don't say anything about what the real policy is, right down to the main topic we're dealing with as financial resources, then it's a suitable policy that the government law on public finance is trying to get us out of the way. We're supposed to set a course for the future. That is what the civil law focuses on us. [[The president calls.]] If we ignore it, we're back where we were before that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u90	Madam President. Once again, I have to reiterate these points. A candidate mentioned the budget. These areas are divided on the same foundation as those referred to in policy, i.e. to five years. The financial policy may be such a economic or economic document, the economic thing, although, of course, it's a sera word of the iPad that men present. I think it's a good thought, and I don't have any credit for that thinking. This had started as we have seen in the past. paritaprevir It's Oddný Harðardóttir's daughter, the secretary of finance. Then it continued. Setting this frame has been an important process. Therefore, it is of great importance that we have a technical discussion on this framework as it is, not on other factors, the implementation of budgets, or the financial agenda. I can assure you what. A senator will act there. There he will see that we are going over a unique language field, which is to be at that very stage. But that's where we're saying the rest are from government. He is now bigger than in his prior financial program because the tension is more intense. We can see that this was more economic growth than expected. It speaks of how to pay off debt. We are doing this in order to get lower interest in the future, which all citizens will benefit from.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u91	A respectable president. I can see what's in the financial program. It shows an even more accurate implementation of policy targets, in fact very precise. I understand this by saying that there must be more general guidance earlier in the process. Based on the way financial policy is made to sound and how it is written, especially with regard to the baseline values, it seems inevitable to mention something about the final objective of budget management by topic areas and classes. Not in a precise way, just in a general way, as I described earlier. Why else would you really have financialism? Why are these same spending goals not being set right away in the budget? In a standard process, financialism is brought forth along with the first government financial law. She has been in the field since spring. The course is then not necessarily approved until at least before the first financial programme is adopted next spring. It is, then, a whole winter that is given to discuss financial policy. This suggests that there should be a little deep discussion about what financialism is about, it's about the next five years in the future. It's about budgets and budgets for the next five years possible. Time given gives me a clue that there should be some deep discussion of financialism regardless of how it is going to be presented today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This may be something we can aim for next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought it would be a good idea for him to read from the government covenant - I must disagree with the highest degree. Secretary of finance that it may have been the best part of the talk, possibly because I don't share a vision. Ministers of government policy - and compare what is presented in the Constitution with what is presented in financial policy. I have to admit that my experience with it was a little bit the same as when you watch TV and sound and pictures and don't go together because I don't see how this is going to work out together unless the government completely relied on you to say that all the economic forecasts are going on. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator whether it is just one of the major weaknesses of this policy that we do not have accurate analysis. The Economic and Business Commission never went over the case. We really need, at least, those who may come to agree on this document, to rely on hope, or cross fingers, on the fact that this will work, in order for the government to succeed, and in order for the government to fulfill their promises.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u93	A respectable president. I do not necessarily disagree with the goals of the government covenant that I read; perhaps I could disagree with the methods that would be used to achieve them. As for our health, education, and the like, these are generally good goals. As for the economic situation, what we've been discussing is that we've been trying to analyze in this discussion recently. It seems to be hard to see how the plan works without further economic growth, but the numbers don't seem to work out. We do not have access to tools to explain whether we are right or wrong. We do not have the information that would tell us how many tourists and last year would translate for economic growth or a little less. We don't have access to the economic criteria, except economic growth rates, this economic climate, and that's all it's all about. We don't have any sensitivity analysis or scrawl analysis of how likely it is to be reached. It has often been said here at a council that it will never be caught. Now I don't even know how likely it is to get caught. That's exactly what a client spoke of asking for a miracle to expect economic growth to continue for so long, since it has never been for so long. There's something I ask of you, that's my lesson from this discussion process in the Generals, to have access to compiling such information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is indeed true that we, ordinary members of Congress, do not have access to these economic grounds. I'm gonna let me wonder how much data I've got. A government has, since it reveals nothing more than the economic fortunes of the Hausp, or it gives its claim to support itself. I feel that we have to seriously consider whether the economic conditions have just not been deemed sufficient. In that light, it is even easier to calm down. A financial and economic committee would not have enough time to dive into economic or national grounds. There is also another question I would like to ask. A senator in. Now a good deal has been said about selling the shares of the state in banks as well as about sales of other companies in public interest. As far as I can see, the policy is built, at least in some respects, by the price of this sale. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me in thinking that it was a strange business model to have come into the position of needing the money that the person who would buy it can bring it into the country to follow up the policy. Isn't it just the legacy, if you let yourself go, Madam President, to think it that way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-29-50.u95	A respectable president. I'm not so sure that the policy would go up for the bank sale, but it's the monopolitan income that would be going down on taxes, and then we'd be in this circle nonsense we had earlier. We would, however, be in a very good position. If it were policy, it would be okay to sign it, but it wasn't the campaign code. I'd like to talk to you about what we were talking about earlier about time to gather information. We have access to information, but it's going to take a really long time to collect it. Information that we ask for, even on a financial committee, does not return in time before the case is taken out. So if we suggest changes, we need access to the process to evaluate what they mean. As regards the changes in economic outlooks, etc.? We also don't have enough access to that sort of calculation in time. In terms of the banks, I think it is impossible to go to the bank store until we have a secure legislation on the benefits of property, absolutely not possible. And then in a way that companies can always be traced down to certain individuals and that they can be assured that these remunerations cannot be dealt with, as shown in a database report on the Bank. Since this obligatory possession would be strictly an illegal contract agreement, and only authorized owners would have legal claim to the property referred to. If we had such a secret agreement somewhere behind it, the members of Congress could just walk away and the other person would have no legal protection because he had an illegal contract policy in his hand.
