ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u1	The president wants to report that he has received a word from Pirata's Congress on the change of human life in international committees. On the one hand, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, a major member of the International Assembly, and Halldóra Mogensen, take the place of Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter as a vice keeper of the same committee. However, that Halldóra Mogensen takes his place Birgitta Jónsdóttir as the head of the Council of the European Community of Safety and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Transport and Regional Ministers, and Marine and Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u3	A respectable president. One of the things that has been mentioned as a problem with the hedge fund being in the bank is that they're developing investors, which means they're looking for opportunities from day to day, but usually they don't have their money in the same company. In a conversation with the Morning newspaper, former director of Straums PéturEinarsson Investment Bank said that hedge funds are essentially confined to clubs, and not to observation duties like banks, their property, and their activities are not public. Then he also considers the hedge fund unfortunate bank owners, they're not long-term investors, and they're not interested in business. V.E.G. On the other hand, the Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson has rejoiced with the reports of the purchase of hedge funds at Arion Bank, showing, by the permission of a president, with a clear confidence in the circumstances of the region, and is truly good news if he wants to come here powerful foreign people who are willing to become long - term investors in Icelandic financial firms. Significantly, prime minister believes that the hedge fund is strong foreign long - term investors. So far, they have not been counted to be members of that group. One of the leaders of the hedge fund committed to Arion's bank said exactly in a conversation with the Morning newspaper, with the permission of a president: I don't know how long we're gonna hold on to it. Depending on how long the market takes to accept the value and prospects of the bank, the investment in Arion Bank - ◯ depends on how long it takes to accept the value and prospects of the bank. V.E.G. Prime Minister is celebrating long - term investments, but the investor has no idea how long he will keep his investment. So I'd like to ask the highest question. Prime Minister three questions: Does he agree with the former director of Straums that the hedge fund is unfortunate bank owners? Does he believe that their purchase results in increasing the confidence of the public in the banking system? Then I'd also like to bring him up to see if he thinks it's a moral defender that one of the funds that bought Arion's banks had been found to have a major misdemeanor in Africa and had to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and now have a credit rating in a trash company, apart from having the path of almost 17% of the bank's possession in Arazon, which ends in the Catasian Islands according to the official information available but small. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is the prime minister satisfied with this arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u4	Madam President. Of course, this material is in much longer discussion if you want to go deep into these things. I'm just gonna go over a few key things. The Icelandic state wasn't selling banks right now, it wasn't happening. On the other hand, the Icelandic state set aside the old Parliament's scrap shop that they would hand in debt to the Icelandic state at 84 billion dollars. What we had in mind at the time was that we did not want all these funds to slip out of the economy to the demands of the Icelandic crown. It was from the time before the bank's new owners, which came into existence after the breakup of the embellishment of Copenhagen's swellings, would seek new investors. What I want to celebrate here at the beginning of this week is the step we now see, that the bank can be registered, and that I watch for the first time from collapse that we get a bank that gets some future possession. His registration is being prepared, right? Here's a direct question to me about whether I'm okay with individual owners. We have laws on these subjects. Hv. One senator said that I rejoiced that certain members of the council were going to become intrepid investors. It's just wrong. The law assumes that institution investors are the more than 10% and that they will have to go through the needleeye of the FDA, right? I trust the F.A. to review whether those reaching for it should have such a share. Then we have to face up to financial companies, such as all other markets, who will be able to buy and sell in the future. And after we've cleared up this capital capital capital, anyone can buy stocks of 1, 2, 3, 5% at Iclands or at the Emship Company or in a financial company. I don't expect us to do that about it here in the Hall of Congress when that happens. [[The president calls.]] The other is a different story when we're talking about insinitating investors, they're not exactly what the situation is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u5	A respectable president. It's just like it's going to happen at the top. Prime Minister that we do not want all these funds to slip out of the Icelandic economy. But isn't that what's happening with the hedge fund getting this money and taking it out of the country? It is also true that the government is not selling. But is it credible that such parties have made such a big investment into an important institution, a financial system that does not have the government's approval? Now I quote the words of one of those who bought and said, by permission of the president: The reason we limited our property to 9.9% was that we did not want to delay the sales process. This was important for the Council of Copenhagen, as well as for something that the authorities considered positive. Now I ask: What authorities did they see in a positive way? It is vital that we find a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u6	Madam President. There is a misunderstanding here regarding the fact that more money gets out of the country than it would have been because foreign people come in with new funding. It's the other way around. There's new funds coming in here that'll clear the line. That's the genius of the contracts the last government made. You can't get away from this. You can't escape the conditions we set. Even if domestics had bought all this item and the funds had gone through the currency market and found their way out to the demands, the conditions we would have met would still be met. That's the genius of the contracts we did back then. The Icelandic State's premium also served as a defense, preventing people from selling things to themselves at too low prices and thus getting around the terms we made. I do not know what is being said when some government had a positive view that this route would be gone. But the other is clearly clear that we have a law in this country that says that the willingness of people to take part in a large holding thing will require the blessing of the SEC. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have no reason to expect anything other than that these matters will be handled carefully and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u7	A respectable president. At a conference on December 22nd. I had a place to talk to at the highest. The health minister, Ottt Proppér, was then a civilian member. I asked him about the future's policy regarding private business in the health system and referred to my case in the category's homepage. The Senator answered me, by permission of the president: ▪ I thank the senator, who, in some respects, correctly mentioned that the bright future has been a positive subject of varied health care practices. But so I'll explain better: There is no secret way to lie against the infamous and cooling of personalization in the system, but on the contrary, we believe that the diversity of the management sector and the services of the health system, as in other systems, is important not only to offer choices but also to offer certain competitions in different shapes. We're familiar with the health and health system with many examples of different management forms. The best examples may be found in the world of aging services, firms such as suspected and Frenchist, self - possession institutions have proved to be a very successful methodology for welfare and health systems. That's why I'm asking the highest. The minister: Does he favor the proposed hospital care of the Aarhus in an equal way to Gröns and Hrafni's business? And if it is, it wouldn't be cold and personalized, so I'll use a word for it. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u8	Madam President. I thank the senator for his inquiry and a bold speech. It is a pleasure to hear self - quoted, and it is so pleasant to hear what I have been flying, speaking intelligently in December. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to agree completely with myself and to live up to the claims presented in my talk on December 22. There is a positive outlook on the future with regard to a wide range of business practices, but it is not for profit or for the greater personalization of the health system. As I have said many publicly and here on this talk chair after I became a health minister, I will not represent a personalization or a major change in the medical system without the development of a marvelous focal point on such matters. It's not in the lake, so I know. The Senator asks me about the planned and imminent hospital in the Millennium. I have to tell the health minister that I'm surprised at this imminent hospital business. I don't know that he's in the water. Clinically, it is a work that has been granted to the surgeon general to provide a full range of services, such as at a number of other specialist centres, in accordance with the National Institute of Health. It is not in the water to change that arrangement, on the contrary. Or not on the contrary, it's just not in the lake to change that arrangement. So, with regard to the marvelous news and testimony from parties that it is in the river water a great change: I'm so happy to be able to stand here and to draw that news back. [[The president calls.]] I'm not familiar with them as the minister of the language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u9	A respectable president. It's good when men are flying talky and speak intelligently in December. It's the best thing to do if you do it all the second month of the year. I want to continue quoting words of the highest. The Minister of December, to strengthen him and support him precisely in his plans, i.e. if I understand correctly. We believe that well-being services should not be promoted for profit. A bright future does not exist and does not plan to, and does not press on to increase the level of personal growth in the health sector for financial gain, just to be clear. Excellent. Now I ask the minister straight out: If he receives a work permit application from this particular company that I mentioned earlier, will he say yes or no to such an application?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u10	Madam President. I'll agree again with these flying words from December to assure you what. A senator saying that I may have said something of a reasonable second month. I can assure the senator that I am not the one who allows employment and rooms, the facilities of specialists in town, that is the surgeon's office that allows work permit for the station. [[Up front.]] However, it is in the power of a health minister to commit health insurance to make special contracts with such a station for a job or service that is in excess of a formal agreement with the Icelandic Medical Association. That's not what I'm about to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u11	A respectable president. I also want to speak to the highest. Secretary of the health of Óttar Proppér. Mr. Proppé, he's askingppé. While I always like to talk to my uncle, both at councils and at family gatherings, there's now a little special and perhaps even more special after the last speech. Secretary of health. That's the best I could hear in a case. Minister but that he answered the question about if there should be an agreement with Health Care for the Clinical, so that this should not be done, which is likely to mean that the clinical and its activities will not be realized. There has been some waiting for these answers, and it has, unfortunately, been too much in this discussion that it has become a matter of technical considerations, references here and there in the SOUTH, suspected, and so on. It often forgets that what happens to our health system is politics. It is a political party, and especially the highest. Minister of politics. It should be for any person who sits on the minister's chair a simple matter to make clear whether or not the hospital or the function of the event is involved. That's not the technical point. It's politics that can be handled. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson earlier quoted the future course described as opening more for diverse management and services. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister again: Is it the case that they should say no on request for the Clinical Convention on Health Care?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u12	A respectable president. I'm saying it's always fun to talk to your uncle in any case. I cannot help but repeat the words I have spoken here and before in this chair, repeated, and echoed my words. A senator before testified: When it comes to the health system, the future has been clear. This policy is adopted, and it was quoted in the articles in December, which were just witnessing. I repeat my words from earlier on, even though I may not remember them word for word: No, it is not available for the Minister here who is assigning health insurance to make special contracts with the clinical community or other private activities beyond those of the frameworks that are currently applicable to the NYC and doctors of the Clinical and other centres. I don't know if I can make this clear, so I'm just saying once more: No, it doesn't exist for those here who are assigning health insurance to make special contracts with the clinical community or other special centres for business beyond the business involved in a cross-border deal with the Reykjavík Medical Association. This is in harmony with the bright future course that certainly supports a wide variety of management forms, as indicated in the quote, including when it comes to autologous institutions, which have been a very important and successful part of the Icelandic medical system. However, I will not support and will not support the development of private hospitals with a complete profit - producing service. It is contrary, I think, our feelings are more common if not all Icelanders when it comes to public health care. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u13	A respectable president. I welcome those words to the highest degree. Secretary of health. And yes, there's always a little more to say. It can be said whether you believe that such activities include within the framework of the existing contract with the NYC, whether you think the operation will be realized, who you think the consequences will come if the operation is realized, whether by any new contracts or by the current contracts. Has the highest. Health Ministers are concerned that if it does, it may increase the inequities, access to health care? You can talk very clearly when it comes to politics as to what you think should be realized and what you think is best for society. You can also clearly ask: Telvur. Healthcare secretary that this function will be and that it will be extended within the highest framework contract. A minister testified?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u14	Madam President. Hv. Senator, it's important to speak clearly. When you ask about these activities, you may wonder exactly what is meant. This is made clear in the Treaty of the Society's Office of Medicine, which activities will be involved. There is no way that many days of beds will go by. Such would require special negotiations. The Ministry of Health has made special agreements on living and not in medical departments, as I have previously said. Healing is a very complex task. We've hidden certain things, even simpler actions, those that run themselves on the basis of their own rooms, experts, etc. I think it's a nice part of the Icelandic medical system. But I don't see that it would be a delight to distribute the health system's energy by hiding in increasing numbers more complex and more medical services elsewhere than in existing hospitals and hospitals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u15	A respectable president. It has been three months since the purpose of the clinical situation was set up on the health desk with a proposal for subscriptions and a contract with the state to conduct a private drive to the hospital for profit from the city of Reykjavík. It's been hard for the highest. Ministers to make up their minds, he has said it himself, but the answer is now; this hesitation cannot be understood as if it were heavy on his shoulders. That's all there is to hope. If the highest. A minister would have intended to take this step then if he had taken the pursuit of wealth lightly. Of course, questions arise in this regard, whether no fly foot is on the news we have, that there was a contract on this subject. I'd also like to ask about the next minister's reaction to the action that awaits, there's waiting lists of replacements waiting for hundreds of women, and women are also waiting for their problems, several hundred women. Is it assumed that this will be a contract made with government agencies? What steps might this be taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the council asked the question and has to give a bit of a witness in my comments about the question. Here's the senators. In particular, since we are discussing the affairs of one physician's practice beyond that of others, our participation in a waiting list campaign is now taking back in the second year of the second of the third with budgets that were particularly determined at the General Assembly to shorten a waiting list. A surgeon's official has defined five types of action that needs to be tried to work on waiting lists. There are replacements, heart implants, retinal surgery, and certain female cure procedures, if I remember correctly. I've had a checkup with the Department of Health, and it's about the best way to get it under control. The conclusion is that we have made contact with the same parties, the same organizations, and have participated in the waiting list campaign last year. It is the Landsspians, the Akureyri Hospital, the Western Institute of Health, and when it comes to eye operations, we have also spoken to the verdgeers and Lasers who were involved in the project this year. There's been a talk to these people. We are hoping that these measures can be signed in order to make a good impression on the list. [[The president calls.]] We're going to keep a close eye on how it goes and check it again in five months so that we don't get out of time so that we can't finish the action that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u17	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the answers and, of course, wishes to congratulate him on having made this successful decision. Of course, the clinical record here has been repeated because there has been a critical change in health care by negotiating with a private hospital for a specific service. But I only want to make this point against the highest. Minister: Will he make more use of the institutions we all have together, the medical institutions near Reykjavík, to shorten a waiting list and to promote our activities? They are very well done in many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the congratulations. There is a great responsibility in being a minister of the mercenaries. I'm taking it seriously. That is why I have prepared my decision very carefully and studied matters as I have been able and fully. Yes, I believe it is important to build and maintain your ability in our medical institutions. So I feel that it is important in this waiting list campaign that agencies to be consulted, the Landspians, the Hospital in Akureyri, the National Institute of Health in Western lands, will also be sought when there is the possibility of using the facilities and services of other health institutions to build up and maintain the ability in our carts. [[The president calls.]] It really is part of an order or recommendation we send to our institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u19	President. That's a lot of news to me, I think it's the highest. A health minister gives this program to a assembly and to a nation, i.e. He is somewhat clear on his position that a major health - care business is not going to be handled, as is evidently the case or being in the discussion at least. As the minister says, this will not be done without a marvelous preparation and discussion, at least. jumped for a while, according to the Minister's word. I'm glad to hear it. It is clear, however, that there is a tug between the policies of the administrations and the words of the senators and the ministers of the administration in these matters. The policy of the Independence Party is very clear in the management of health matters, which puts up with not just a variety of management forms but more with personalisation than with public management while the future for which we witness repeatedly has been cut off and entered, offering a wide variety of businesses, as it might be called. V.E.G. In his reply earlier, a minister said that he has prepared the decision very well, which I feel he has made today, that there will be no negotiations with a private company on the health system and on the various data he has collected. Then I ask: Was there any discussion in this case with the clinicals to negotiate business with the health care system? What is the position of the government? Is there a monopoly in the government on the decision of the secretary of finance? Has this been discussed in the government? Does the government's members and ministers of the government represent a health minister in order not to be private in the health system and not to discuss such matters with any company? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u20	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry I'll try to answer. True, I don't like to disagree. A senator says there is news that I say that I will not represent a special private business or personal development of the health system without a great discussion or preparation for such things, because this I have said many times, including... Here from this chair, and is merely restorating my words. When I discussed the preparation of my decision just moments ago, I discussed the conclusions of who and what institutions are assigned to participate in the shortlist campaign this year. It is true that the decision was well prepared. I wrote to myself the evidence, and a special experience with the wait-list campaign last year, which was up and down because it did not work very well to perform the number of operations that were available and had to be completed by the end of the year, so to speak, in order to reach a reasonable conclusion on the subject. Hence, they were prepared and discussed with the institutions and, of course, with those who had won them last year, how they felt about being able to complete this number of operations this year. I am assured that it will succeed. It was a first - century challenge, an initial challenge, a previous year that made it longer than any other one that is not relevant today. But that is also why we will pay extra attention to how the campaign is going each month from month to month. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is not proper to negotiate with a private member in this campaign, since this is to negotiate with a private member of the eye operations, as was done a year ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u21	A respectable president. Now I feel like I've hit some of the sponsors, i.e. The reason behind the decision is the highest. There seems to be a minister who checked to see if he could do this at any other time in public institutions. What's floating over the space that's in the system today, it's going to be given to a private person if I understood the word at its height. Minister right. So there is no political view behind this decision. There's no policy. There is no political view of the future and the highest. HCP on this, i.e. The vision that public health care should take priority over private business, but how the situation is clear today, more can be turned out of public institutions, and for what floats over them, it will be sought by private agents. I'm disappointed. [[The president calls.]] I'm starting to lose my mind on the words that go to the highest level. A minister repeatedly stated that there will be no further privatization of the health system unless well prepared. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u22	Madam President. I'll be happy to take the talks I've been giving today, since I've repeated that I will not represent a special private or increased private operation in the system, and I'll print them out as soon as they're on the council web and move it. A senator, for that has not changed. It is the responsibility of the minister and secretary of health to ensure access to services and to ensure that the services made up of the decision have been performed. A decision was made at the General Assembly to make a special effort to work on the list of three consecutive years. The campaign started last year. It continues this year. It is the responsibility of the health - care minister to prepare and perform such procedures as possible. It wasn't part of the preparation to ask me if it was my personal opinion or my class that we were going to change our course in the middle. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I haven't been able to. Preparation for this decision is only to ensure that the work will be done and that the public and those who need the work to be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u23	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. A secretary of transportation to come and have a word with us on transport plans and on the highest level. A dignified president for allowing this on the program, for these are very important matters and have been considerable in the discussion, not inadvertently, since the level of transport issues is, in fact, more important than tears. I'm not going to take that deep in the river. Secretary of the budget, to the highest degree. A transport minister and others who adopted a transport program in October on sexual immorality, including the 11 members of Congress that 71 a day later adopted budgets that were ignored as if a transport plan were not available, i.e. The same members of Parliament agreed to both transport plans and budgets. In fact, it may not be surprising that during the last term, they acted as if they did not exist. There was no effective transport program, so to speak. The government, although the law is, could not get them started. Eventually it was accepted, and then in time again, but it became a relatively complete document when it was discovered that it was not to be followed on the distribution of funds with the approved budget. A protocol wasn't approved. For far too long, money has been lacking in the infrastructure of timbers. I guess it was the fashion word for the last campaign, built-in build. After the election, however, there was another sound in the eraser of some categories, and all of a sudden there was no money for what had been promised and even approved. V.E.G. When the criticism began to be heard, a secretary of transportation was quite direct, but a team would be set up to see if road transport was to be established. Fortunately, the highest. Ministers are only backing up and trying to get more money on transport. That's fine. As far as the roadside is concerned, this discussion is often out and south. There is a huge difference between environmental roads used to reduce traffic - in order to be active, there is a powerful public transport system - and then roads for funding the construction of transport workers designed to facilitate traffic. This is different. It should be a new minister and a new government campaign to do well, especially when there is such a problem with transportation as we have seen. And governments that teach themselves to fight amateurs, in terms of greater personal interest, should be particularly involved. Especially since November 2016, the importance of an updated transport programme is presented in a report by the Council of Congress, the Road Administration, and the November 4, 2016. It says, by permission of the president: The budget needs to have an updated transport strategy. It is important that, at any given time, the updated transport programme should be adopted by the General Assembly on total transport and transport projects. Internal Affairs is encouraged to look for ways to improve transport practices. It may be appropriate to point out that a transport program is not some request list that a minister can choose out of his own thoughts about what will be done. It is clear to the lawgiver's will in which actions will take place during the period. The fact that it is a political proposal does not diminish its value, as some have tried to excuse themselves. It can be noted that five - year financial policy is also a concierge proposal. You can argue that it is the largest document in every government. Speaking of financial policy, it's coming out in the next few days. Will financial resources be assured of a transport plan? What transport strategy, then? When will an updated plan be submitted? I'd like to quote again the previous report by State Revision, this time in the response of the Department of Transport, the Ministry of Ministers. A secretary of transportation, permission of the President's permission: The Ministry of State agrees with the President's opinion that it is important for long-term, short - term, up - to - date transport programmes to be implemented. For four years, a four - year program has been submitted by a minister at the Council, which has not been submitted until the four - year transport program was adopted by the Council. Work modalities with a transport programme must be reviewed in accordance with the changed work modalities in the budget of new laws on public finances. Thus a national budget covers five years of transport expenses, but up to now a decision on the budget of transport has taken time and is eager to delay the work on the plans. In this light, we do well to ask whether the financing of transport programs will be ensured by future financial policies. Will Ministers finance the transport program that he himself approved in October fully? How do Ministers plan to establish the more money possible for transportation? Will the Minister's opinion go to a private member with the financing of the road system? How far is the minister's idea of roadstones, and where does he place himself? When will Ministers submit an up-to-date transport program for the council he trusts to finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion that I think is very timely. The question is, Will the transport secretary fully finance the transport program that he himself approved in October? To answer, it is not a minister to finance a project, it is a minister to perform, to finance the legislature. In this discussion, people can constantly ponder that the October program was not funded. That's right. It has not been overlooked, but as I have said before, the situation is in that case and was at the time, so people had high expectations for what would be arranged this year. Then, as the council settled over it and settled relatively well on what to think, the emphasis was on what we all know here in this hall, on health and welfare matters. The same amount will not be used twice. Yet, four thousand million were added to transportation from the previous year. That's a lot of money. It's in one term period, about 20 billion bucks. Of course, I have hoped that there might be some additional funds we can get on top of this year's urgent project as well as that something will be added to the budget that's being developed right now. The priorities take into account the legal objectives of a transport program. Safe transport, easy transport, environmental transport, cost-effective transport and positive development. The aims of safe transport will be redesigned. That's the goal we've brought up right away during my first days at the Ministry. It is asked if a minister intends to consult a private member by financing the road system. We've arranged a team to map in and out of the capital area on a large scale. That work's going on. Now experts discuss how large that project would be, how it could be financed if a solidarity was to take place in these routes, and what effect would that have had on other projects, both in the capital area and outside the capital area. The objective of this analysis can be considered objectively. I hope it's this spring. It is suggested that this be at the end of May. If roads are to be placed, there must be powerful public transportation. I agree with that. Senator. Public transportation needs to be supported. Then I remind myself of a deal made in 2012 with rural areas in the capital area that would be 1 billion dollars laid. each year to promote the public transport system in the capital area. How far has a minister come to think of roads, and what does that impress him? It has not been said that I look forward to the next year's full possession of the Earth tunnel. Then we need to determine if we will continue to do so. In my opinion, it's not justified unless there's a link between it and that. As we have seen, we look to the possibility of more than one possibility. That's as far as I'm concerned. We've put a group of experts in the job of reaching out for that picture as if it could look, and I crossed the river. This brings you to a transport plan. We have a recent transport program to do so. Of course, we have set our priorities in what we have at the Ministry of State within it. She's not a target piece. It is, of course, a means of guidance to the Commission on the type of implementation to be carried out, and it was not ousted from that policy. I agree that it's time to put in another road plan. In many respects it would have been normal for us to do so on autumn days, but a new transport program is started, both short and long. We are to provide a four - year schedule, reevaluating it every two years and then making a 12-year plan. Of course, it will affect the transport programme if special funding is being made up of solidarities. We have that in mind. We have started this preparatory work, and then it will be continued on the basis of the results of this strategy. Considering this, it would be realistic for her to be submitted to the end of this year or at the beginning of the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u25	A respectable president. For the last election, there was one of the main slogans of the Independence Party on the right track. I'm not going to spend many words on that slogan, though I'd like to point out that way is going to be pretty rough if it goes according to an Icelandic road system. I am afraid to say that it was wonderful. She was adopted in broad favor by every group sitting at the council, as I know. I believe that this magnitude has had as much approval of the public as a transport program. The will of this world of Congress was perfectly reflected by the public's will at that time. From the media of the previous government in the leading of the election, it was clear that in the light of the elegance of economic conditions, better times and better roads were ahead. It was the creation of a government at the beginning of the year. Then came the eraser's second sound: It cannot be financed only in part. I'd like to point out that one of the first works of the first government was to eliminate a special fishing fee from the development that has yielded an exorbitant profit that has no precedent since the Silveries. Four years have passed since then. I want to point the top. A secretary of transportation said that if this fishing fee had been held, it would have returned tens of billions in the four years combined. These billions could have been used to strengthen the transportation system and other systems that are crumbling. But no, for that it wasn't a political will, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start this speech by sharing in the Senate that I will next few days celebrate my 10-year driving anniversary, but I took a car test at 27 years of age in connection with the 50th anniversary of the Roman Convention. In fact, I admit that the connection there may not have been a thread. One of the fines I enjoyed as a student in a car - test course was that I could go to the Halffield once free with my instructor. I mention the Halfground tunnel because hell is certainly to protect it, but winning is to be proud of and repeat. An example of a success of a sequoia canal was financed by roads. Of course, there might be evidence to support some of the luxury of the Cradle tunnel back then. There was still the situation, and it is still that the roads of the road system were still unalterable, there were only roads in many parts of the country, and, unfortunately, they are still. At the same time, there may be evidence that money is not justified in moving into an operation that is primarily to reduce distances. But it is easier to justify it in such a way that such a procedure can be taken before the order if it is self - serving and financed, and after that, the results of that investment, the road, the tunnel, or whatever it is, are generally used. I think there's an example here that we can look at and to new, not talk about subsidies in general, but about special projects, what we want to see happen in the roadside out of the capital area and how we plan to finance it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u27	A respectable president. It was certainly a shock when reports of a continuation in a new developed transport program. Whether it was a misunderstanding or a wishful thinking, most people believed that there was some agreement that a reimbursement of the budget would be looked forward to securing money on this plan, and most of the projects are urgent, as we know. Some of the projects have spent years on transportation programs and have even been involved now when it became evident that they should wait longer. What I shall say to the 60 Westfjords and 60 Daringhön, and the actions of the Berturdir! People in many parts of the earth have expressed their anxieties. Newly put in protest against the East. Today's Newsletter presents a challenge as a company and individuals on the Westfjords in the News News magazine, which protests - by Mr President's permission, I present this magazine to the United States of Congress. Of course, money is needed, and the minister is pityed when he tries to find it. Men have, for example. I want you to mention raising taxes, selling property, etc., but I think there's one more way to raise money. Of course, it is not entirely painless, it is slowing down the debt of the state's debt and reaching some money there. Of course, this is not flawless, for we will, of course, continue with interest payments that are expensive, but they can be obtained. I also believe that it is important to consider the need to slow down or postpone the development of Istavia at Keflavour Airport. This will likely slow the growth of tourists in the country. It will also provide space for other projects, as there are no tens and hundreds of billions of projects at the Cheflavour airport and other projects. It will simply translate an enormous expansion. V.E.G. The minister said at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee that money will be assured in the projects I mentioned earlier, the West Preservation Road 60 and The Daguesses. I know that a minister is a man of his word, so I worry about this much less than I did before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u28	Madam President. V.E.G. During the fall of almost immoral times, a minister called the approved transport program. It is true, it is a case of immorality, not because the senators approved of a late and vital operation, but because the independent party ran from all post-election, put forth along with the forward - looking budget that destroyed it, the budget that was largely ready for elections, and the approved transport program on October 12 last October. Madam President. It is not almost immoral, it is immoral. V.E.G. A financial minister himself participated in the game, composing FIB's demand for large amounts of transport money, but was then ready after election when there was a struggle to keep promises and to make money to them. I remind you that in the lndependence category and forwarding House budgets, expenses for road management were to be even lower, but this was the case with the approval of budgets. In the bill, 8 billion were needed to cover the average cost of road expenses over the last 40 years. The quality of the transport secretary is such an independent subject. Not just the betrayal of promises, but the minister himself decides to prioritize the money available, not turning to the council, but acting as if he had accepted the power of a god. Of course, the people's response to fraud was immediate. Now the government has entered the corner and is looking for a way out of the clip. The executives then wave their left hand to voters at home in the district and promise more money to the seminary, but with their right hand they will then expect to agree to a budget policy to five years old, the government's spending must not exceed 41.5% of domestic product. In other words, at the present position, there will be no room for any promised transport. [[The president calls.]] If the bond of national society is then cut down. Madam President. This government is not doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u29	A respectable president. We need immediate action. Road of Forest Beach, Lakes Road so hollow to approach danger zones, road to Smoke Beach is unable to survive because of mud or landslides. That's the way you keep counting. That's how the news sounded day after day in the fall. However, many of these rural and regional roads are driven daily to school. In autumn darkness and rain, these dirt roads run into mud and holes and become dangerous and virtually impossible. These roads have subsided because of insufficient maintenance and restoration. Despite the good health of Crystal and the swollen state funds, including ... forcharging the traffic of people on these roads is as if governments were out of touch with the nation. The rural or regional roads connect people and inhabited within the regions, even between parts of the country. About children who go to school or who go to school daily for work and necessities. After my trips these past few months -- yes, the roads have to be run in order to understand the need - I am thinking about. to the north of the Yearneshrepp, and through the Coast of the Barb, and of the Corn Sea and the British, through the Forest Coast, by Waternes, on the Smoke Coast, Higgenda, about the city's riots, and through the Mice, into a valley in Skavegur and Hunsium. That's the way you keep counting. The pressures of this way, the lifeline of the population, call for immediate action. I also suggest that at the same time hand giving the nation the currency of the Whale Age for endless possession next year, there will be a valuable tax due to the tax paid to the state's budget and likely a new transport campaign on the highways west and north to a country that may be at hand. They're hiding in the bridge of the road. There is a need for major action in road matters. Money items and income stocks are available. What were the members of Parliament thinking that allowed the budget through the council with a large hole in an approved transport program? We need immediate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u30	V.E.G. President. A protocol is a plan. The schedule may change if circumstances differ from those expected when submitted. All recognize that much improvement is needed in the transport system. We're having a soup because for years, during the recent crash years, there were little or no repairs or maintenances in the transport system. At that time, it would have been wise to stimulate the economy by building the transport system rather than starving it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u31	It was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u32	The current process of transportation is truly ambitious and promises far and wide. The fact is, however, that the 2017 budget does not improve for all the projects made in the program. Even so, from 2008 onward, the largest budget for transport is that of a 10 - year increase. A total of 29 billion, or 29 billion, are yours. A million. K. The budget of 2017. There were 25 billion for 2016. Thus, the increase is 4 billion. It's not cutting, it's an increase in inputs to road transport. It follows that expectations for reform were high, as stated earlier. Clearly, all of them cannot be answered. So priorities are essential. The Minister of Transport has requested a search for ways to provide increased access to transport, and it will be seen whether and how much further funds are available. However, a discussion of the recent weeks shows beyond any doubt that it is the country's will that the network will be rebuilt in a handsome way throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] But let us be aware that it will take time and requires much money and patience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u33	Madam President. When I was a kid and a teenager, one nice man sometimes came to visit my family in the north of Akureyri. He was a very comfortable business, pampered me, and asked me how I was doing at school, and was interested in my family and my interests. I was impressed with this man. You see, he was a politician. Years later, though, I began to doubt myself, and I discovered that these visits were usually just before elections. It was a bit of a fun coincidence. I'm not sure this concern was real. However, I am sure that the person's interest in my parents'votes was genuine. That's where the dog lies buried. They get to say their opinion every four years, then no more. As soon as the ballots are listed, some of the voters seem to forget the promises and policy issues. It is a firm resolve for the country's national, rural, and business to make extensive transport projects. The call is loud, and I don't believe that the government is going to hit a monster ear. The government has the backing of the legislature authority to submit to the nation's will in this matter as well as others. Only then can it be said that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u34	A respectable president. Thank you, Prime Minister. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, very much for this discussion and the highest. Jón Gunnarsson's communications minister for his answers. Paying attention was especially interesting. It asks what people were thinking when the budget was approved. I think it was simply that they wanted to make sure that there was some kind of money for the management of the state rather than nothing. But one of the things that characterised a very discussed section at least one of the Government Party, the Revolution, when he wrote about government cooperation, was the emphasis that no taxes should be raised, should not be raised at all. However, there was not a very long time before ministers facing large assignments, such as the Supreme Court. A secretary of transportation and, indeed, the highest. High - quality ministers, started talking about tax increases. However, they called it expenditures, talked about resource costs, also called roadtolls, either to enforce political policies or to pay for heavy projects. I'd like to take this opportunity and remind you it's, like, the highest. Ministers know very well and have themselves given, large and important tasks to be prepared and planned, such as the Sunway, how we may possibly support our rural communities here in the capital area on the construction of public transport, i.e. the so - called city line, and the many discrepancies based on the capital area. It is all connected to a very big task to take care of. It appears it is the will of this government to go to the construction of a new Hospital on Ring Road. This means that it will further increase the pressures of the transportation system in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Then we need to keep in mind whether it is wise to go as fast as is planned in the building work at the Cheflavour Airport and how we make sure that our transport between the capital area and the airport is the best possible way. There are major tasks that the minister needs to consider and work fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you for an interesting discussion on transport in general. I find more interesting when talking about the whole transportation system. Of course, we're here talking about a transport plan and the problem that it's not funded, and it's been discussed in the past. However, in terms of the whole transport system, I feel that we need to consider some of the other options, such as. Air travel, bicycle riding, transportation, and, of course, shipping. I often feel that there is a lack of overall vision, overall policy development, and a future view of transportation. So I am pleased to be working on a white book on public transport in Iceland, where it is my goal to get a complete overview of the information we are discussing here in general as far as transportation is concerned in Iceland, where it is highest. A minister has decided to continue that work. On the other hand, I would like to make a brief entry into my discussion of charges on roads. I think she's interesting. I hope we can have a financial discussion on charges or use fees. A variety of transport expenditures have long been used in this country, such as ports and shipping and landing charges, ferry costs and various other fees on which they have been assigned. I look forward to seeing the results from this group of people, and I find it exciting to see how the discussion will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert for taking up this matter that burns so intensely on all the people of the country. We are one nation, a small society in a large country that has unmatched advantages. The government's lack of understanding of this is evident in the government's work by means of a transport program in which the will of the Generals and the nation was ignored. She was a peculiar presentation of a travel minister recently. During the fall of the election and after the election itself, there was little more to talk about than there was a pressing need to build up in all areas. Transports were on the top of the circle, land, air, sea, lines, and light. The basic needs of the inhabitants of the country are now totally pushed aside, the need to get along in a reasonably reasonable way between communities. This is a cold greeting to the people of the land. They will not be written out of the book, that is not in anyone's power. On the other hand, we can make it possible to cut back and make a quick cut. A lot of time is needed for it to be put first. We still live on narrowly dangerous maladies and single - burnt bridges, road routes that are even used between parts of the year. I'm dealing with the northern and southern areas of the West, though they're supposed to be a common service area, e.g. in the field of health care. The present government will flee, and we will cast off calls from the inhabited earth and from commercial activities all over the country. The government cannot handle the needs and the structure needed, dares to face the challenge of obtaining money for construction. There is a lack of understanding about the condition of the people around the country. The lot of this government is in the best interests of treading the marauder. Astrologers had developed suggestions for promoting elections and plans for achieving the objectives of infrastructure. Sadly, the financial minister's party fell prey to fighting. We're stuck with a government of special interest and profit. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the government to take courage, to pull out the picks and shovels and seek to be effective and to get to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u37	A respectable president. Again, I want to thank the highest. Minister for this discussion. I'm gonna have to put some compliments on the top. Minister, all I've experienced is that he is invited and prepared to come and discuss with us at the council the issues under his direction. What a fine example! There's been some interesting things here. In the case of the highest. A minister introduced the fact that financing a transport plan was not a minister of his own. True, in the narrowest sense, the minister puts the line in a government - approved transport program and puts it before the Council. It's the Minister's fight for the money he wants to see on transport. I have to say to my parts, I think it's a little strange that somehow no matter how a year in the community, there's never money to increase the consumption, to add to our joint projects. There are many recesses, and we need to save, or it's thin and we can't spend it. There are always ways to find out more than having to take in the combination that we live in as a community. This has been grueled considerably because the amount of transport money has increased so immensely that one of the same things has rarely been seen. But it takes no more than a consideration of the budget bill that was put forward last to see that in 2016 solid prices dropped the Roads budget. They need to be examined exactly where they are after repairs, but this is not the enormous addition the government is enjoying. We are less than 40 years of average as a proportion of GDP. I think we should be very careful how great everything is and we're spending a lot of money on it and facing it the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u38	A respectable president. Above all, the main thing I take from this discussion is that we agree largely on the importance of the matter, the need for transportation. It is important that the discussion be discussed objectively. I've only felt that it was lacking in a particular rush. Councilmen. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson said that when another government began its reign at the beginning of the year, another sound came into the cylinder. It was not that government that left the budget of this year, but it was the council. [[Take it up in the same category.]] The government took over January 11th. An immoral transport plan, however, said so. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson. Government behavior, like whatnot. Ministers accepted the authority of a god? No, he has his authority from the Council. Such language is not intended to help in the discussion, to say that this is a fraud and a crime. Here it is just working out what is available according to the Generals' decision on contributions to this category. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðjón Brénsson of Brjánsson said that the will of the Generals and of the people was not respected by the minister of the seminary. I can't wait to talk like that. A transport program approved by the Parliament is being prepared, and nothing is eliminated. To bring in so much of a word that this is a government profit and private interest - it's not a fall to help us and not to increase the respect of the Generals to make it a subject of publicity. It's starting to shine a little bit through the fact that you're looking at things with your eyeglasses, from where you come from. Senators are coming. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson says that it had to be 5 to 6 billion and to stand in the way of the west and north. Well, I'm not quite sure that the same thing is said in South Africa and Northeast. We have to try to work this thing out together. Of course, I realize the basic need. [[The president calls.]] It is not true that the minister is not trying to think of ways in which a big and important effort can be made. That work's going on. It will take time to get around it and to see the benefits and shortcomings of such means, but they certainly turn to taking this class for a reexamination and to finance it in a new way. This is vital because all of us know how much money is needed in the welfare and health systems of our country. [[The president calls.]] It's where people were setting priorities for their last budget. I'm assuming there'll be a very high priority on the senator's wish list in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u39	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill for a change in the law on salmon and trout fishing on the threshing floor. 378, 271st. This is a suggestion for a change in the law of salmon and trout fishing and is related to the control of appeals. It's a bill written in the Department of Employment and Neons. It's part of a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. This bill provides some modification of the law No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, with subsequent changes. It is suggested in the bill that there be a legal requirement for a minister to be in accordance with the Regulation on eco-fishing, including to forbid or limit all-country fishing in certain areas, if this is thought to be necessary in the assessment of the Marine Research Centre. This bill's point is that with a letter dated November 24, 2015, a Fish Service agency requested that this take part in the banning or limited fishing activity in Iceland and in our country. Then, on November 30, 2015, the Ministry received a report from the Institute of Fishing, but as we know, the Veterans Institute and Marine Research had joined in a new agency, an oceanographic Institute, research, and counseling agency of the seas and lakes. The Ministry also received a formal counseling on the matter by letter dated February 3, 2016. It explains the biology and the life cycle of the aluminium, the labour of this country, the state of the strain, and the Agency's counselling. For one thing, it shows that the oil stock is in danger and can withstand ill - fishing. In the meantime, it is counseling the Agency that all ice fishing in this country will be banned. The Agency felt it necessary to set rules for emancipation in this country while the source's condition was under control and that a minister would be given the necessary legal authority to set such rules with a change of 20. track No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, as well as that, if an eel was caught in trout or salmon fishing, it would be obliged to release it. So the local matter of hunting suggested that the Ministry promoted such general peace while the foundation's condition was under established standards. The main policy is that high stock size reduction has been achieved in the pan-European region of Europe since 2009 in the list of international markets with species of wild animals and plants at risk of extinction. As I visited, this bill has been in the Ministry for several reviews. You've begun counseling the Preliminaries and the present Summit that this will be followed. I call attention to 1st paragraph. there is, in fact, a warrant that a minister can set up an eco-fish policy in view of strong evidence that the population is in danger. Of course, we take it seriously. We want to have a warrant and then seek advice from the Institute of Marine Research, in accordance with the principle of Icelandic fishing and running us in hunting rivers and lakes, we want to do what science tells us is right to do. With the bill it is assumed that a decision on rules established by a minister may be made by the Council on Fishing, including to see whether to ban or limit hunting in this country will be based on counseling from the new institution that we in our daily conversations call Hafro. A respectable president. Other than that, I would like to refer to the article on the bill, which contains a detailed discussion and an explanation for the subject of this bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u40	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for her speech and would like to say that I think there's a good reason to worry about the farm. Of course, I believe Iceland is among its fishing machines to protect strains of endangered animals. Without being an expert on oil, I know enough to know that there has been a huge decrease in this population. I've heard that one of the explanations for this massive reduction in population is plastic pollution in the ocean, that microplastics, or plastic particles are so badly treated with the aluminium strain. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in this context whether or not there has been any discussion between the Ministry and the Environment Ministry. There is, of course, an overlap between advisers in which we would like to take steps to protect the fish stock, which is, in part, by the Environment Ministry, and then to take advantage of our community benefits. These two issues conflict. I realize this isn't exactly at the plant. Minister, but connected. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Has there been any discussion about making such an investigation? That Iceland thus contributes to finding out if plastic pollution is responsible for this development? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Þóra Árnadóttir's Stone for the comment. I agree with what you're worried about. Senator of plastic pollution. She's a lot. It just so happens that I was at the Boston fishing exposé, where I spoke to a senator from the East Cove, who is about to present a primary plastic pollution bill, a high level e.g. ... in Alaska. He asked for support from us Icelanders on our bill. 80% of the pollution there is from Asia. The plastic crosses the sea and destroys much of it. I can't say whether this will affect the oil stock as such, but it's bad to have this pollution in the ocean. I told the senator that we would, of course, support everything that would mean clean seas, better ecosystems, sustainable fishing, scientific fishing, that would support Iceland's efforts. Yes, informal conversation has taken place. We are very closely monitored in the water supply and agriculture department, including the bill on the protection of the sealine or the coast. That's where we have a very rich interest. It's a huge interest in us, and thank you very much. A senator should draw attention to this. I'd also like to call attention to my companies who are working in this business. One of my first visits to a company in Whos? There's a company that re-uses plastic in Homing, rollback plastic, and takes about half of the time. Two tons, reminds me, plastics of the ocean, matrices, and so forth, which are recycled and placed in a reused plastic bag for Britain's market. [[The president calls.]] This can be cleaned, it can be done better. That's what Iceland and I are going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u42	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm glad to hear that the Minister agrees with me that plastic pollution in the seas is a major problem and concern. I don't think this is going to be one of the politics of the early 21st century that needs to be more and more concerned about and involved. Of course, it has to do with pollution. It also involves the way we are going to deal with human climate change. It's all connected. Yet, without being an expert on oil, I have learned in the discussion that there is concern that there is a link between collapse and plastic pollution. In particular, a partial thromboplastinosis is indicated. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A minister who sharpens and sharpens her for fine works in these matters. It's good for the Minister who brings the innovation factor in our resources also to set up these issues and talk to them, that this is not just a statement in the area of the Environment Ministry and the Ministry. Environment Minister. Of course, if we are to be able to do something about pollution, we must do anything contrary to the ministry. That's why at the end I'm going to let myself point out the highest. The minister should look at this with the microplastics and encourage her again to do what she can, in the power of her office, so that we can contribute to that material to the halting of pollution in the oceans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u43	V.E.G. President. I accept a challenge. The senator is very serious. It has vast interest in us Icelanders to know the state of the ocean at one time or another. In fact, there's evidence that Iceland's ecove is getting a lot better, including ... ofa responsible fishingman. I remember a picture I saw at a Meritional Institute. It revealed that in 2002 an eco-efficiency was much more than in 2014. There are some positive signs in the air. We see an increase in the cod population, but it turns out that clues about the river are very strong. Hence, if we are to do so, we need a legal authority to ban oil fishing. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a clear legal authority to limit or ban river fishing here in the country or on the Internet because that is not the case. There's a special right, a colony in a way that doesn't belong at sea. It must be based on scientific foundations. That is in accordance with our general policy in the issues and litigations that I am responsible for. Hv. A senator spoke of the plastic and the effect on the eel. We'll look into it. I will direct that inquiry to Captain. It will be shown through their advice on how the stock's condition is in this country. But I'll start counseling Meinro in these matters like many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u44	A respectable president. I feel that this legal section is going a little far, i.e. banning love hunting. I understand that there will be a limit to hunting, but then on the basis of some investigation. The article says, with permission from the President: ▪ More than that, it shows that there are very little data on ice fishing in Iceland and that no fishing has been recorded. It's a little strange to think of banning a fishing problem that we don't even know which is going to happen. As noted, this bill is the cause of a request for the Ministry of Fishing in Iceland and for the country to be banned. I understand that. A fishing room doesn't have jurisdiction in its waters. Later in the bill says: It affects farmers, hunting owners, and others who have practiced crop fishing. The main objective of the bill is to protect the river stock of this country against overfishing, which we don't even know which is the case. I don't know. We're gonna start running fish in Iceland if the Irish or the Scots have caught too much aluminum. Should we not examine whether we are in general, and if we are to forbid it, we need to examine the waters and know that the problem exists?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u45	A respectable president. It's as if I'm at the General Assembly when this case comes up for discussion. I've got a few things over the bill and I think things about it and I want to trace it lightly. It was observed in the highest range. Ministers that she wants to go to science and follow counsellors from this case, but I have doubts that there is so much knowledge in it that it is merely forged. Perhaps even more is the knowledge beyond that institution. It would be possible to cross a lifetime here in Europe and the state and state of Iceland. It is true that rivers are thought to be at risk of extinction, mainly because of habitat destruction, excessive glass production for use in farms, and diseases and parasites that have been generated through the import of Europe from Japan and elsewhere. As a result, the glass loads - the glass river is a young eel, it is spawned in the Saragosa Sea, and then it brings the ellipses here. According to my research, those who come to Iceland one year on the way here and grow up here and then walk back their way back, they're not gonna be seen again. The river fire has been based entirely on hunting and carrying glass branches, but it has only recently been successful in hatching and allowing them to live for a long time in the fire. Even the glass pot is crossing 100 pulses. A s., but it actually takes 2,400 pieces to weigh. Fortunately, we have not destroyed our habitat in the same way that has been done in the continent of Europe. There's not been too much glass here. I don't think he was caught, or most of the ones standing here. I know few others, at least not scientists, who have done such things. Fishing in glass - these are hundreds of pounds a year and could have gone up to some tons and in historical light just back into time, but this is relatively small today. Nevertheless, aluminium is being used in several places, and of course it is important to people. I've watched it quite well. I've been patrolling to Iceland since 1999, including the U.S.A. to examine the comparison between years in the tunnel. I have key sites under which I keep track of every year to get the index for the walks and kidneys. I'm the only one who's been doing these tests in Iceland so I know. It is true that this has fallen under pressure. It was observed that the glass load fell to a considerable extent here in Iceland about a decade ago, but to the same degree as in other parts of Europe. They may have dropped to 10% of what it was before, while it went down to 1% in Europe. Last spring, it happened that there were more walks than you've seen here for a decade. I'm excited to see what this will look like this spring. Then the whole thing's a little more complicated, because despite the drop of the glass load, you haven't seen a corresponding reduction in the size of lakes and rivers and habitats built here by Iceland. It also seems to enter some aspect of a density-dependent mortality number and such. The places I've been tracking every year to figure out the stock size -- I just have to keep talking from my research here because it's so pathetic as this bill is quoted - but I'm talking about how to make a bunch of wood lakes I've watched every year and I've done for 20 years. I've never seen so much in my research as I've seen two years ago, and beyond, the size of the stocks has not fallen in the same way that's interesting. In Iceland, there are no industry fishing on the glass farms in Iceland, which is the main danger in continental Europe. We haven't destroyed as much habitat as we have. Of course, we've been destroying territory here. This is where the swamps are lit. There are roads and other causes that stop walking. That may be what needs specifically to be considered, but it is forbidden to hunt the several hundred kilos now caught. I don't think what we do here in Iceland's utilisation doesn't compromise institutions. I think I'm gonna have to make that Iceland's year is in many ways special. One of the reasons why they have not been caught commercially is that they behave in a completely different way in Iceland. There's a whole different situation here. I've been investigating and conducting experiments on this finding. Without that knowledge, they can't be given for employment here. That's not the point. At any rate, we have used glass to test ourselves, not in the past few years, but in an aluminium. I just want to keep it up. You know, about the special situation. There's a lot of special things on the bill, and it's best not to have a word about it. Please refer to the relevant data; this is one 1996 report where rivers were caught in several lakes and ponds in the Southland, 20 years ago. Then there is a report explaining that the catch was a score of bright souls on the way down the Old Testament rivers one autumn. Then there are letters and counseling, and so on, where the claim is made without even building on the available data. I can also refer to another dozen sciences in international journals that discuss research in Iceland and genetic compositions and other activities that I've been involved in. I'm amazed to see that almost none of what has been done has been taken advantage of. But there's still a lot of research missing, that's for sure. We are also looking at the effects of climate change on the genetic structure and other factors, the inter- and inter-national interaction. In Iceland we have hybrids of Europe and America, which are nowhere else to be found. We also have the next few generations of people here who can't be found anywhere else, which means that there's a pattern there. The fact that they are not catching somewhere else means that it is not entirely random where they go or whether they come, anyway, the offspring of these hybrids. They come to Iceland more than anywhere else. It needs to be examined more closely. There are various aspects of it. I agree that nature is to be enjoyed by the doubt and to be very careful. It's so cheap to say that you're going to do it, but you're not even going to find out what the situation is. It's floating across the lake reading that fishing is about to be banned. They also need to show them respect for the kind of people who work hard, even if they do not have great interests, that they are at least Review the knowledge and the information available, and even the Ministry uses the major experts in this field. If you do not find them in a Meritional Institute, you should look elsewhere for them to do so. I strongly encourage you to do so. In fact, I think the Ministry has had some report a few years ago about the situation of Iceland's European institutions and the glass loads in order to answer to Iceland's international commitments as to whether these species are in danger of extinction, at any rate it could be found in the Ministry library. That's what I signed back at the time. It has to matter that from 1999 to today, we have had an overall pressure crisis and the results from that monitoring when decisions about the river have been made. I encourage the Ministry and the Council Committee that will discuss the matter in order to acquire and apply the utmost knowledge. At any rate, it is clear that there is very little background behind the argument here, though I understand and share the concerns, as there are many studies that are involved in these serious questions. It is difficult to come up here and talk about a matter that you know so well, but I have decided to do so and to discuss it from my knowledge of the matter. I'd like to end up encouraging the highest. Ministers, Ministry, and Parliamentary Committees to seek knowledge in other areas where it is available on this matter. Many things can be considered in these matters. There are a lot of very special things here in Iceland that are different than we see elsewhere. It's important to accept that. If Iceland has to back up, say, continue fishing and how it's being done, then it can be reasoned with by the way things are here. It would be a good start, rather than taking the cheap route and just deciding to ban it and then plan on looking into it or letting it go altogether. I wish for the highest. A minister responds to the meditation presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u46	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place, and why. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for bringing his indications, for his expertise is great. I'd especially like to call attention to this as a warrant. Why are we setting up regulations there, into salmon and trout fishing permits? Because we have to be careful about the rights there, which are guaranteed in the constitution through the property rights and more. That's why we're putting in a warrant. Besides, I'd like to point out that if you go on a burdensome route, because all prohibition is burdensome, it has to be based on scientific foundations, research. It will be done. A moderate rule should always be applied to all such approaches when people are to be limited to freedom or space. That's why we're going this way. But this is also a responsible way in which we have received strong clues, from both outside but also - and I'm just hoping that I've just misunderstood. A senator when I felt that he was in the Oceanographic Institute, which is our principal research agency, not only on sea level, but now also as a team of the Agency's cohesion with Veterans Institute, there are our leading water and river experts. I hope I misunderstood. A senator, and if I haven't, I'd just like to object. This is one of our top scientific institutions. Wherever you come today, even the Icelanders and I are looked upon. through our targeted research on marine life, the rivers, and so on. So that's what they say. I think it's very important that the Council Board handles another fine tip from which. Senator Bjarni Jónsson and why. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Guðmundsson of the Piranha. These are normal speculations. Should it be banned or not banned? Therefore, it must be handled with great care. It's carefully reviewed by the Parliamentary Committee. These are our opinions at the Ministry, that we need to be careful about the rights that people are committed to. in a constitution, and, on the other hand, in the matter, is the natural environment. There we want to be careful. This is the most clear policy of this government, for the environmental crisis of this government is the longest one ever written in a government contract. It's not a coincidence. I'd also like to assume that there is evidence beyond the development of the aluminium size reduction, but also that the Institute of Fishing said very clearly in the letter that the Ministry received at its time, in February 2016, that it was made known for the biology and life cycle of an elf, that its population was in danger and that its source was in danger of ill hunting. The advice of the Institute of Fishing was that all ice fishing in this country would be banned. I repeat, this is a warrant. The secretary will not make a decision unless there is clear evidence that the oil stock is in danger, so that it will not be restricted unless scientific advice makes it clear. Other than that, I'd like to emphasize that the matter goes on and on. Work committee for lectures, reviews and coverage. These views will no doubt appear there and will be reviewed. I look forward to seeing what the discussion and treatment will be done at the Committee, but it remains that I strongly recommend that this report be agreed so that we can respond if science tells us that the population is in danger. If the scientific adviser comes now and tells you by new research that the oil stock is in danger and we don't accept the bill then we can't react, Icelanders. I just don't feel responsible for not having that kind of law. I stress: The average rule is always in Icelandic administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to make it clear that I wasn't snooping into anyone or crumbling at a Oceanographic Institute or her abilities in many areas. There are our best experts in a number of fields, and it's important to take advantage of their advice. But then there may be holes in that knowledge. I reiterate that when it comes to the Ministry it is not to be too sensitive to seek knowledge outside the Office of the Ministry, if it is better to be found elsewhere, even in institutions under other departments. You can't have the skin of that. I can just agree that it is important to have the authority that such a thing is about. But what I was looking for was logical support. It is almost premeditated that the fish should not be fished. And that decision is on thin ice. Witnessing in a 20-year-old report and someone who's getting pretty old. That's all there is to it. Then some statements are cited. An article on the life cycle, even as it is in the textbooks, does not answer how we should tackle these items, especially with regard to the particular status of aluminium in Iceland and how the process of life is, in some respects, completely different here than anywhere else. So I'd like to call again for the highest. A minister describes it as ready, and he will seek more knowledge before applying such laws, such as banning fishing. That argument is not right. This needs to be reasoned better if that is the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u48	Madam President. I'd like to underscore the average rule again. I also want to emphasize that when it comes to nature, we have to take things seriously. Then we must look for scientific conclusions, look for the best people we can think of in order to make decisions. If so, and there's strong evidence that the ale stock is in danger, unchanged, as the situation is now, the minister can't do anything in spite of strong clues there. That's why I say it's a warrant. This is not an obligatory law on the prohibition of appeals. Rather, it is a warrant that a minister can by regulations set out on eel fishing, so that it is said very clearly. A minister can make a rules against hunting on a foil, but he does not do so without any warning. I think this is a responsible way, a reasonable way to try to harmonize viewpoints, environmental grounds, and protection grounds on the other hand, and then the views that are very clear and demand that legal legislation be clear when it comes to ban or limit fishing in rivers or lakes as this is being done. There is a way to compromise, a wise course to follow. The warrant is missing. If this is not possible, we can do nothing if we have clear evidence that the oil stock is totally falling down here along the shoreline.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u49	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister says he wants to go on a responsible route. That is where we agree completely. It even builds. Therefore, to gain and make the best use of the knowledge available to prepare decisions. I agree that it is important to have a warrant for this subject, but it sort of gets stuck here and floats over this report not to bother hunting. It is based, indeed, on bad news from abroad, for in some respects these are the same strains that are underneath. But in order to make responsible decisions, they should be based on the best knowledge available. I think, while reading a piece of paper that goes with the bill, there's a little bit more about the basis of knowledge. Sadly, in this case there could be a greater knowledge of this field in the Oceanographic Institute. Let us put it that way. Maybe it's more important to the former employees of the Agency than to those who are working there today. If responsible decisions are made based on knowledge, I feel that it is inevitable to seek more knowledge than just that institution, so it is said.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u50	Madam President. I'd like to underscore that I trusted a Meritional Institute. I can even hear you. When I stayed in the west for a few days, calling for more consultation with the sailors of the land, to those who use their resources at a time. I think Archa takes it very seriously. It endeavors to have regular consultation with those in the area who are fishing and working. Of course, the same is true of the river. I trust the Oceanographic Institute to provide me with professional counsellors, as it generally does in everything else. I'm stressing that the activities of the Oceanographic Institute over the years have proved this. We can see that, for example. now the development of the cod population and other institutions also yield to both the policy we have had in fishing management and the entire political spectrum has agreed to build up, and the way that Merro has obtained from his science. Second, if we talk about being in touch with aluminium: I remember very well that I went down to the creek, the Shrewdal in Alfus, and put on aluminium traps with my father. These were not the most fun creatures you could get into, but they were exciting. It was far more of them 300 years ago than it is now in the doctors when I was ten, twelve, and fifteen years old. During the last summer, I especially went down to the top and tried to look at something else, but there was not much aluminum in those old places that my dad and I went back to and set the traps. There may be one. However, it is good to know of an inscription in Icelandic nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u51	Madam President. I recommend a bill on deck. 379, for example, the 272nd issue of the bill for the adjustment of the law on the relations of marine crops, on the control of fishing and on the price of fishing. The bill has the heading: the use of marine vegetation for commercial purposes. We members of the council have called this the bill on thongs and seaweed, and we've enjoyed it a bit, for an important bill, especially for a particular region of employment. The bill was moved by my predecessor at the 145th C.E., but it was not over with Congress solutions. Still, they were addressed for material treatment. A job committee that provided some improvements through my Ministry. I will back up the additions below, but first I think it's time to discuss the matter in general and the key elements of the bill. Madam President. The bill suggests that there will be rules about what is mentioned in the bill. This refers to the beating of the seams and the gatherings of the seams. Happily, we know that our land has many gifts of God. Wherever rocks, cheerleaders, and big rocks come out of the sea at a beach in Iceland, seagas grows. Icelanders have made good use of them since the beginning of Iceland, and we remember how Egill's daughter, the Þorgerður of Egilsdóttir, played his father, Skallagrímsson, by giving him a bottle to chew. Often, old Sourville grounds will have been controlled in earlier centuries. We know that our ancient laws have the authority to treat and use seawater and other sources of goods. More than half a century ago, preparation began to consider the potential for industrial production in Iceland. Later, in the early 1970's, a special factory was set up for drying on the seas at the Rhineside of Smokenes in a Rhoolah carpet. In order to develop ways to beat the herd and seams, to collect, to land and, of course, process or to wipe the raw materials, certain methods had to be developed. They've given up quite well, but evolution has been quite a factor. The Rholium factory is still operating, and it will be employed for some time, even though a number of factors have been going through the process, rather specialized products that have sometimes gone terribly wrong. The factory is the most important company in the city of Rhool, and it can be said to sustain the village in part, even though other companies are in bed - to - bed. Many changes have changed over time since farming was considered hazardous to the idea that there was a body temperature that could pose a threat to livestock. It's been a while. Of course, it was the hilt of the Rhools, this old headpiece of Guðmundur the son of Arason, which was the basis for a factory to rise there. A portable dryer used to extract flour from the panel and from the seaside was developed from Icelandic sources at the time with the help of the fish - industry research agency and provided a model for over 20 droughts that are used in many parts of the country for drying of cod heads. It is also a joy to see that recently a factory was set up next to the Smokehla factory that extracts salt from the Breunnaut and uses the very water of decay from the factory itself. This rhymes well with our Iceland's aim that the use of natural resources should be sustainable and look for ways to increase value. It seems that by technological advances and the practicality of biotechnology, there are new and increasing potentials for robotic value. This can be seen, among other things, from what appeared during a recent protest on coastal equipment, which was here the other day at the Grand Hotel, i.e. Since 2012, on average, one new company has been formed in a year that is the product of nature's growth or products for industrial production. There are many opportunities for growth and increased treasures on the basis of ocean resources. In Iceland, in a few years and decades, there will be a growing industry. In this regard, in particular, I would like to propose that at the company of industry and innovation, we have recently been working on the development of biosystem policy for Iceland, i.e. how governments, careers, and citizens can promote economic conditions in this country. This trend is in harmony with the emphasis on economicism. The most important ingredient of the factory's translation at Rhools has been the clone called Latin ascophylum nodos - it's like just Harry Potter, in my case. At the same time, seaves have been new, but the cloven, as I could, is the most important thing in all of this. These are two kinds of seaweed, a horse in the middle, and then a large seaweed. It is evident, then, that some other kinds of seawater are also being taken along with these species, which may be called intensification, to use a term we know very well from our fishing therapy. The spider, in turn, is the species of flounder production, both here in Iceland and in other countries where similar activities are practiced, e.g. correspondent in Norway, Canada, and Britain It is no coincidence that there is experience with the beating of the Brenfjörður, which combines the unique landscapes, the number of slices, bacon, and an island that creates a very broad shoreline as there is a great difference between flood and seawater. This makes it a very significant amount of fish in the butterfly. However, the sea is under way, with the so - called tugs that catch it, which grows in a much deeper depth. This is explained by a bill of what I recommend here - and I recommend that you read the report, that it is interesting and full of fun information and inexpensive moments - to build the fish and the sea in the Creat has no such thing as direct supervision or control by public authorities. Thus, no rules have been set for making mowers or amputating tools, registration of fish, or treatment. It should be assumed that this was not a reason to make such rules. In fact, we shouldn't make such rules unless there is a reason. Heart rate has been improved in consultation with the local beach owner, but the tide is only growing on the shores and within the marine grid. The Smokehol factory will have rented its beat frames to its own contractors, who have since gained considerable knowledge of individual cutters. However, during the last loss, increased interest in the use of seams and seams has been observed, with the apparent interest in most or entirely being confined to the British farms. As reported in the media, the least two parties intend to start such activity soon. This increase in interest seems likely to be related to good markets, but the increased demand for use seems to be high in all kinds of industry, including the so - called subject and the incorporation of materials. Various algae products are desirable for improving taste, quality of appearance and loyalty, as well as for increasing demand for biotechnology, and even for health or medicine. This increased interest in efficiency will prompt the management of natural resources and specific reactions to the legislator. The bill suggests that research on marine growth will be provided at the same time, with the inclusion of marine resources and with the provision of the laws of fish management, including the release of permission for creative work, the entry of a year's workbook, registration and weighing on the price and payment of hunting fees. In addition, it is suggested that the implementation of the Agency will be subject to permission, a new recommendation based on the proposals of the industry from the last legislation panel. All major stakeholders have been agreed on in the preparation of their newcomers. The bill consists of this wide range of authority to govern the development of marine vegetation, as is further discussed in the explanations of the bill. Marine research has long been done in the past but because of the increased interest in the use of the European Union in Iceland, the Agency began an independent study of the spread and biomass of the British farms last spring. In addition, ecosystems were included in the study. The results of the study are expected to be about the month-to-day of March/ April, and hopefully they will be used here in the judicial treatment of this case, and the directors of the Oceanographic Institute, and then researchers will face what may happen. The job committee to review the results of this study. In few words, the main element of the bill is the proposal for an EEC to be assigned to study marine vegetation and to be a adviser to governments on how to use it. It is being suggested that the number of fish be collected and monitored under the fishing law. It is being suggested that theholding of the braces for implementation from restricted areas be subject to licenses and that the fishing fees will be paid on the land of the catchers and the seaweeds. Madam President. These were key elements of the bill. The bill includes an overview of its effect on the financial resources of the Kingdom. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. Madam President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u52	A respectable president. I agree with that word. A minister to the report that follows the bill is interesting and a number of detailed information there and a good deal more in it than a report I referred to in a different language, where only less was used in it. I would like to emphasize the importance of being built up by sustainable planning on the fads of the Bárfjords, like anywhere else in the country, as appropriate. It is a joy to see that there is a growing interest in making the most of it. Of course, we also need to look to the work that the Latin factory has been doing at the Rhandopolis, both in standard practice, is making many new things exciting. I had an opportunity to study it even better in the fall, and it's really big. There are also others at the British farm thinking their way. Of course, this need to be planned and looked especially at the position of those who have been in it before and in a sustainable manner to build it up. I strongly emphasize that although research has been done and research has been done, much more is needed. That's a lot under there. The eggs are at the bottom of the food chain, so if things go wrong, they can have a chain reaction all the way. I'm highlighting it. In fact, there are a variety of other techniques that need to be looked into about the intersection and such so that there won't be any conflict with any other uses, I want to mention it. I would also like to highlight the role of a regional research site, such as the Western Museum of Nature in Stykkisolmi, the University of West and others, as well as the research center of Vero's Guard, that they have a role. Maybe I want to hear what's at the top. A minister has to say whether she cannot predict the role of these regional institutions in these tests and in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u53	Madam President. So I'll answer a question. A senator who came to the end, of course, I can see it coming. We're here to take advantage of the institutions we have in the country. I think that's how we also strengthen the infrastructure, but of course it's always done on scientific grounds. I don't want to interrupt those who are responsible for the tests, but I am fully aware that there is much knowledge in this area. We have built up specific units in the affected area. A senator mentioned, but also, for example. in the ice, where there is a core that we see to it that can be very powerful because of the interaction of many institutions. When I was there, it was clearly stated by the employees of the institutions there, whether it is MAST, Merro, the Weather Service, or other institutions, that it will be of great benefit to them to be in this home, and at the same time, the results will be based on a stronger foundation, research done, etc. Every time, power is new. I can totally see it. On the other hand, I'd like to agree with it as a dog. A senator specifically said about sustainability, I stress that I agree with him in this regard. We need to strengthen our sustainability as such, we need to be careful about research, and at the same time strengthen the research institutions. We need to realize that there is a great deal of evidence to be made out of such tests, for surely the intestine are at the bottom of the food chain and can have a profound impact on life in this area if things go wrong. At the same time, I stress that much knowledge has been based on the smoke floors. It is, in some respects, fragile, but there the factory has caused it to be a core, a foundation that is very powerful. We must make sure that the inhabitants of the area can continue to do their work there and that the factory can continue to work in the interests of both the community in the West but also in the interests of the produce and value growth it is now creating. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for what was presented in the counterargument by providing for research institutions in the country and other areas. will be given a role in monitoring and testing. How important it is that we make good use of both the location and the knowledge there is and build it up even more! I welcome those words, and I stress that they will, of course, be done in greater context and cooperation with other institutions. There were also institutions in various parts of Iceland where special knowledge is available regarding marine and coastal areas. I'll welcome those words, and I just want to remind you once again the importance of being walking around in a sustainable fashion, and there's no need for more research, nothing's going on right now. It must continue. Also, if there is to be a chance of making the right decisions at the right time, the effect of increased consumption must be monitored. I want to get back to the fact that the bill is equally at home with the Environmental and Transport Committee because it's also important to the environment underneath, it's not just a business, it's also a very important environment. I suggest that the environment and transport committee also be discussed. There are exciting times ahead of you and there are other ideas to come up and people are developing new production, but in the same way, we need to be careful with all the cohesion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u55	Madam President. I think it's important, and I don't make any comments about the bill. to advise the Council's Environment Committee. That's why. A professional health committee who decides and will no doubt consult with her. It's important that we try. We need to try the trial here, call out to stake our interests, but we also need to be careful when it comes to research in order to continue building. building up the activity that has been built on the British soil, particularly in the Rhandool Corps, in connection with the use and management of the sea. I think it's important that this case be settled in spring, because this is an interest for the settlement at the British farm. I think it's important that we, who are in this room, do whatever we can to strengthen our country's settlements. Some are more fragile than others, and we should do everything in order to provide them not only for better reason but also for greater stability and more solidity. I believe that once there are rules of play, it helps all the jobs, whether they're in the Rhandola country or anywhere else, so that's also done. Then we can talk about the activities of our country's institutions, the research centres in the country. I have long felt that the best urban policy is to build opportunities for people everywhere in the country to have access to education, to develop research in certain areas. That is why I think it is very important that we see certain guidelines that the ideals are formed in education and research, whether we are talking about in Islanders or other areas. Then there's the mobilization, I mention, for example. South West, West, and Pathro, there we see that studies at the early part of high school have paid a lot of money for society. [[The president calls.]] In this way we can continue to build infrastructure in these communities so that they can be even more equipped to cope with the diversity of opportunities for employment in many parts of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u56	A respectable president. First, I'm going to quote the words of Bjarni Kristjánsson, one of the stakeholders who sent a job commission on the processing of the crew and on the first attempt to complete the operation under the control of fishing. By permission of the President: To transport sea plants in private possession under a fish management law that says in the first article that crops are in the national Union, are essentially national uses and cannot be compatible with Iceland's constitution. By this command, governments take control of government control and the usefulness of marine vegetation within the Internet layers that the marine owners have so far established. This is done in spite of government recognition of marine property rights on sea vegetation within the grid... Add to this the fact that not only are the group under fishing but they are also taking one party outside parentheses and presenting it with a license of 20,000 tons before it comes to believe that other parties will get the right to make braces. The overall grip of Brefuding to less than 2013 is about 13◯17 thousand tons. I think it's a very high number. There is an upcoming carrier assessment report, but this study was made by a Marine Research Institute last summer. This study is self-investigated, but the effects on the entire environment are not examined, effects on grey-free habitats, vascular and juvenile cods and other fish stocks. However, it is happy that the Agency report is expected. Unfortunately, the magnitude of the study is so limited that an informed decision cannot be made based on environmental considerations, according to sources that are familiar with the study. Could it be that the Lawgiver's aim is to provide one person with a private right to work under environmental considerations? Although the Lawgiver may be doing well, the words of President Aðalsteinsson, the son of the Chief Stone, the Supreme Court attorney, are an excellent bottom bottom in this discussion: From the foregoing it may appear that the proposed laws for the creation of marine vegetation will become very blurred by the means intended for the legislation. The regulations are scattered among the regulations of three law columns, and they are already lacking for that reason. The legislation on the building of seawater plants is primarily about fishing, but this trade is nothing like the creation of seawater. When, for that reason, there is a real difficulty in interpreting the regulations, as all the rules of the law are about different matters of opinion and, therefore, is not to be interpreted into the internal context of the law code. In that case, those assigned to govern the environment have a primary expertise in fishing and related materials, not in the creation of seawater. From the above, it is unavoidable to reject the legal course proposed to be sent and instead to negotiate a specific bill on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u57	Madam President. As soon as I thank the highest. Minister for her history with this bill to legalize the development of commercial seawater plants, I would like to agree and thank them. Council members here have addressed the discussion and have declared the importance of focusing on the sustainable use of this resource. I think it is very important that we maintain that point of view in our discussion. I'd still like to agree with the highest. A minister of the fact that the bill is an interesting subject. It is not every day that the conference articles contain laws or treatment of items all back to John's Book and the John book is used in support of matters, so it is reexamined. That made it a little different to me. It is certainly an unusual approach, which is refreshing when you read such lyrics that may be dry on chapters and quite uniform. I have to say, I really enjoyed this. Because it's the highest. The minister said when she took the Latin vow of cloning that it reminded her most of Potter Potter, I must admit that I rather associated with Mary Poppins and was expecting to get to the highest level. A minister would sing that way. It has been fun watching the conversation, since it leads to speculations about various places. It was an outcast. Now I'm going to turn to the material content of the matter and stop lightly. I agree with what's said in the report that with this bill, there's a lot of authority to manage the development of marine vegetation. I believe that this is important, especially in view of the fact that, as shown in the Supreme Court, it is important. Ministers are likely to be more experienced in the years to come. Of course, then, we need to be careful about the knots. I want to be careful and take care of all the environmental considerations, but at the same time, I want us to be able to use the resource. I think these two things need to be together. But I'm worried that it's not going far enough on the bill in that topic. As a result, when the matter was presented to the last council, I fell into a meeting as a runner in the prehuman race. The job committee, who became very interested in this matter, has been observing it ever since. At that time, I felt that there was a big problem with the fact that there was a study of the effect on sea income and the bill presented without the results being made. So I said I wanted to wait for the results. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Minister for results to be expected in March and April. Although I still believe that I had considered the results to be best, the whole case would have been reviewed with regard to what will be attributed to it, of course, would be better if the results came while the case remains to be discussed at the council scene. So I find it extremely important. The results of the work and handling of the case are reviewed by a job committee. At least the second best option is to do it that way. I'm mainly concerned about this bill about the environmental issues and how the natural resource is new and would have liked to be better off. In fact, the report was tore up a review from the University of Iceland Research at Snæfells, but it did not really respond to her, or it added to the bill. I'm sorry. That is especially two things I would like to mention: This material is not very much studied. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson said in opposition to this day, the algae are at the bottom of the chain of life. That is why they are so important to everything above. And that's why I think it's shocking that, as the bill is now not related to the development of marine power to separate resources from, but that a minister is authorized to command in a Regulation on how to monitor his registration and his opinion. A review from the National College of Iceland's University of Snæfells (Snæfellsia) strongly encourages the legislation to state that there is a subsidiary to assess the impact of environmentalisation and that this is actually a prerequisite for monitoring to ensure sustainable use. The review points out that not all resources were necessary, but it would be most desirable to take partial vision from resources and use them for a list of resources, e.g. to evaluate the common species of marine and plant species. So I would have liked to have gone further here and to speak more strongly. I want to direct it to what? The Senate Committee is making a special examination of the fact that it is not proper to make even more comfortable living here. It also points out that the bill identifies the role of the Fish Office and the Marine Research Institute. I'm not going to make a recommendation, of course, that's very good, ending important research institutions. However, here it is noted that the Marine Research Institute is too narrow to be the only research agency to assess the impact of environmental management of the British population and that its role is not to investigate the environment as a whole but only the consequences of resource use, which in this case are cognizable. Therefore, there is no overall eco-efficiency approach from there, so other institutions need to come to evaluate the impact of the environmental impact on the British environment. I think that's why. The job board should be very careful and careful with this, because, as I said earlier, I'm in favor of using the resources that are swollen and swollen, but I'd like us to use it in a sustainable way for a long time. That's why I feel that it is important, now that there is a law on this subject, that the knots are well cared for and that protection is well cared for. The report on the bill also states that although it was not proper for a direct recommendation to rest a cut - down area for a certain amount of time after use. I wonder: Is that good enough? The evidence is that there is no evidence for the study of the regrowth time of the term and that very good information is needed on the quality and quality of non-existent mowing sites. To me, that is the very reason to have more caution than not the other way around, as I feel to be done here. There is some question in the report that there is a need for a rule of rest, at least currently, where landowners and consumers at local level are to be careful that areas are given sufficient rest after a discount. I suppose they're being referred to as being the means by means of careful management of their resources. Of course, I have doubts about this, because landowners and newborns also need to earn their income and keep their business going. There's the danger -- I don't know if it's right to say business, but at least only keeping the business going can conflict with what's better in an environmental perspective for a long time. I think it's evidence again that there's a strict word here. As soon as I'm glad we're going to use the resources and resources that we're using, I don't think only important, but I think that the resources are really well cared for. I don't think it's on this bill and that's what I think. Thus, a job committee has work to make things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u58	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the structure of Braun in Axendal. This conclusion leads to hiding the minister of education and culture into building up a prison in Oxnadal to honor the memory of the poet Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson. The Ministry looks to the purpose of cooperation with earth's owner that Huguen Valley for financing and the implementation of the building project and the future organization in honor of Jónas. Further implementation will be carried out by a minister who presents this strategy to the General Assembly of 2017. I gave a Senate resolution on the same subject for the Council of 145th, but it did not succeed. That's why I'm gonna rehape her here. Jónas the Hallgrímsson of Hallgimur's contribution to Icelandic culture can be appreciated too late. Though only 38 years of age, Jónas's life - style is extensive and of utmost importance to the nation's history and culture. His research on Iceland's geology and maps was a pioneer project that sharpened the vision and enhanced the understanding of Iceland's nature. His translation, his essays, and his articles on politics and material that touched the whole nation was an important tool for the peace of independence. Then there are the countless songs and songs composed by Jónas and many of the nation's greatest poets. Jónas's writings and songs strengthened his sense of nationality and the pride of the Icelanders, and when they needed it most, they stirred their hearts. The memory of the son of Jónas Hallgrímsson must be celebrated as the memory of one of the greatest men the nation has ever produced. In view of this proposal, when it comes to honoring the memory of a waste, it is time to arrange for the knots. It is suggested that there be further discussions with the earth's owners atun in Axnadal, the poet's birthplace, the financing, and the structure of a local poet's site. In Iceland some of the world's most beloved poets and writers honor a cultural post. These include The Skulls, where author Gunnar' memory of Gruns son of Gunnarsson is promoted, Nonahouse dedicated to author Jón Sveinsson, Snortuu Surru son of Surlu, David Stefundti, son of Stephen of the Gernus, such as Noni House, Sigurgús son of Akús, and the poets of Matthías Jochumsson, the Glaca Stone of Halldor Laxness are here in the vicinity of the capital, and Thorberg's son of Thorberg Thornar, is east of Hala in the South country. In each of these places, guests and hikers can visit museums for the relevant authors, as well as culturally related activities in these mansions. In Thorberg's winter, a well - worn display has been set up, which can be between periods of life and the verbs of Þórbergur Þórðarson and learning about the poets and the works of Thord. The fact that Glacrastein, Nons House, and the sliding industry regularly performs events such as the reading of writers and music. They have cooperated to promote interest in literature and culture. The earth to Huun in the Oxna Valley, where Jónas was born on November 16, 1807 - this year is 210 years since he was born - owned by the National Society of Hugue in Axnadal ehf. It is a private and Hörgärgjörg unit of about 56% in its private partner, KEA being involved, I can't remember exactly how many percent, and savings are about 33%. Then there are individuals with little possessions. Society's objectives include: that he should teach in prison, in memory, and in the inheritance of Jónas, and in his work, and in his work of life. The Society held a long time out of a studio shop at Huuni, where scholars and writers could temporarily do writing and learning work. Then the president of Iceland opened the memory shop about Jónas on the 200th birthday of the poet in 2007 that Huun in the Oxna Valley, in the living room of the old house there. As a result, the barn was rebuilt byun and operates by a showcase, and the Society had got an architectural firm to work on the blueprints and expenses in that case. Since the collapse of the economy, however, the organization has fought on the banks and has had to put aside plans. It is no longer available for scholars to stay in the apartment complex in academic work. Instead, the apartment has been placed in general outlets to correct the financial situation of the company. The savings in the country were the main backside until the economic collapse, but since 2009, they have not been able to provide the necessary support. In addition, financial contributions from collapse have declined and have not been in the year 2012. According to the 2014 annual account of the work programme, the total budget grew to that end in 2013 in 700,000 amounts. And a 1,655,000 k. in 2014. Other incomes are extremely low. By now, operations have become so much better, and the earth's buildings have not been kept in good repair for the past few years. In the autumn of 2013, the director of the Society of Cultures Braun wrote to Oxnadal ehf. A letter stating that the company's situation was in distress and challenged a minister to take action to prevent the union from dying. It was requested that the Ministry promoted the birthplace of Jónas, son of Hallgrímsson, to be employed as a cultural site suitable for such a location, pointing to the business of other cultural targets associated with the nation's crown poets. In particular, a contract was made comparable to that of Thorberg's site. Jónas Hallgrímsson is unmistakably one of Iceland's most beloved national poets, and as mentioned earlier, his contribution to culture is invaluable. The poet's birthplace is on the road, wrapped up in more natural beauty and history. The will of the earth stands to honor the memory and legacy of the poet. Everything's out of the budget. The movers of this council concluded that the Allied Council shall commit ministers to making a contract that will contribute to a successful structure and function of the test of the Axendal River, so that the memory of Jónas may be maintained so that it should be maintained. Further to this proposal, the couriers are My Teitur Björn Einarsson, Stilgrim J. Sigfússon, Þórunn Eglil's Egilsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Logi Einarsson, Nyli Trausti Friðbertsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Einar Brynjólfsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u59	Mr. President. I think this case is very important and good, and kind of a shame that it hasn't been done so long ago. As explained above, the facilities and facilities are damaged because those who have supported them in the previous years have not been affected in order to maintain it, much less, in order to get it done. I remember that when I graduated from the School of Teachers for a while, I was invited to a graduation dinner. It was a pleasure to sit in the countryside in beautiful weather and watch this magnificent landscape there. When you think about all of Jónas's history, it's important that we keep in a comparable way the memory of our poets and people who were here, including them. Quote, as done, e.g. ... inTurrbergStilltime. I went to Thorberg's, two years ago. It was really nice to come in there. As in so many times earlier, in late August a man was surprised at how much tourists he seemed to be interested in history and what was under it. It is not just that Jónas was a poet in that sense, whether it is a song, stories, or such. Of course, he was a scientist, one of the most learned men of his day. There were not many in his time who took both the Blesss and the tests in Copenhagen. In time, humans learned as much as he did and had the opportunity to do. He graduated as an expert in rock and geology. I remember that when I started teaching, I taught Icelandic, then 1996, it was decided to celebrate for the first time in an Icelandic language on Jónas's birthday on November 16. Throughout history, the Ministry of Education has promoted the celebration of the day, both in schools and in public institutions. A fine tissue was then made that contains a large amount of information about Jónas, which I directed. My students take advantage of information and make fun of it, except for many other activities. It contains an enormous amount of information. There is also a film made in 2007 by Valdimar Leifsson, who is about 70 minutes old, hardly a movie length of movie, or about 70 minutes. In fact, it would have to be possible, as mentioned above, to have both exposés of the poet's history and Jónas's history as a naturalist and a scientist, and to offer people the opportunity to come to prison and use as an informative home and so on, to do so in a variety of ways, I believe that it can be done. I believe that the ideas of a small restaurant in an old house along with running a seat like that could have caught a flight, just like those of other places. However, this has a special position similar to that of Thorberg, far away from urban areas, rural areas. Here's the Laxness House, just over the city line, up in Mosfells, and there's nonause in Akureyri. But all these houses need more support. That is primarily what this is about. There's too little money in there. It is a shame when this is the case when money can really be kept low. History costs too little money, if you can say so, I find so much fun in Jónas's story, the ruse when he became a Polygaman, and I began to publish The Watchtower with his schoolmates in Copenhagen and continued to do so for a while. There was a lot of things he did that I'm not sure all our poets can boast, i.e. His variety as an individual. I really hope that we will achieve a agreement to create a setting for this, in whatever form it will be, by a service contract or by some means, but the proposal is to finance the development of the needed structure and then plan the work for the future. I hope that if it is observed at the end of March, it will take no longer time to set this up and then plan for a longer period of time. Well, that's how it works with this house, like many others. It can't take many more years without something being done. It is a small rural society that has tried to be behind it and has wanted to make it happen, but when it doesn't come from the state, you realize that it's too much to move into the countryside when big sponsors like the savings come out of the stock and that it's done badly to get someone else. I'm going to allow me to read one song in the rest of Jónas, whose name is another song about the Council, and he wrote 1843, and he says, by permission of the president: Fire must be driven by drifters. A land of counsel build, People's Fierces to fetch, The Spouse of geniuses the course to be seated; Predignity Honorable Curbs on. So shall the young be Order of the Council as themselves They will choose. I have given a present. useful for the long time Particles and puerperium Which I love most of them. This is how Jónas wrote about the Generals and the Generals. I think it's all right still today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u60	V.E.G. President. It would now be possible to stand here for many days talking about Jónas Hallgrímsson if we had room to do so. But where the first speaker, w. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, was an Icelandic teacher for a while, and I would say that this arrangement, making Jónas's birth day in the Icelandic language, was a great step of progress and for the benefit of the nation and for the benefit of our language, which is so important to us. I wondered, " Does his emphasis on the importance of the language not contribute greatly to the fact that we still have this sense of universal English? ' I also noticed why. A senator spoke of Braun being a little far away from the country. However, Laundromat is on the other side of the road. We're here on the highway between Akureyri and Reykjavík. I don't think there should be any fault. But I'd like to ask what. A senator of what she believes would be the greatest attraction for the public to arrive at such a mansion like Braun in Axendal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u61	Mr. President. I haven't come that far, unfortunately, to be able to answer in the formal language of this sort. As time passes, they may learn. However, I enjoy reading poetry, Jónas, and others. Thank you. Specialist for the counter-sponsor. Of course, I believe as an Icelandic teacher that the day had something to say. It's like a lot of other things, when you lift it up in some way and make it higher under your head, it automatically leads to another view. At least that was the case at my school, and that's how I feel about it in many others, both in younger school and in the older. Like what? As an alien resident, we are important to try to hold our tongue. That's my opinion, anyway. This is part of it. What I meant when I talked about being in the country, sure it's on the whole, that what I find so charming is the exact location of the house. I think it's in a really beautiful place, with the lava coming up above. The landscape is awe - inspiring. What I meant is that Thorberg and Braun are still special where they stand. Maybe that's what I meant. I think that it alone is to make the house high in the environment that it is and to offer both to an educational site and to the mixed presentation of Jónas as a natural man, of his travels around the country and that story, try to set it up, I think it would have gravity and poetry. Maybe it's just because I find it so exciting. Of course, you have to think about what you personally would like to see and imagine if others would want to see it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u62	V.E.G. President. That was exactly what I was fishing for, if that wasn't a reason to support the naturalist too. Happily, Jónas was so versatile. He's very well known for his research on nature, but I think the nation's always connected him more with fiction. This was one of Jónas's songs. He has, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful lovers of the Icelandic language, i.e. The end of the journey, which says in the last verse: High understands spheres Skyspaces, a sheet understands tray and eggs; but the spirits that love he/she is ever Forever to part. I think it is very important to have this wide variety of people guided by Jónas's presentation. I think it is also worth drawing out the young man Jónas, who walked through the streets of Reykjavík in a blue coat and charmed young women, and we can read about in old books. The person may also appeal to young people, that he was that man. It is also very exciting to observe what was going on in Copenhagen, as well as the relationship between Jónas's cousin and Skafti Tímóteus, who was very special and had little time left, I feel that there is something that would be most important to us. What does it say? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u63	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I completely agree with that. You think about it all the time, or at least I'm thinking about it. who live in a rural society where you wonder how to get people to stop, what you can do, etc. Many times it has been said: There have been plenty of museums. That's not my opinion, actually. But that is often the case. I think that in this case the advantage of Jónas is that he was so versatile. It is possible to have exhibitions that are less than a year from year to year. There's a lot of information and material that can be changed. I think that's one of the things you need. Of course, we need to make sure that people don't just come here once and that they've seen everything. That's why I think it might also be fun to have coffee or something light so you can run out of coffee, whether you're heading north or south or just on Sunday or whatever, and groups, school groups, all this. People may not be able to see the same things if they arrive two years apart. Of course, such displays are not set up and changed as a whole, which takes time and money. But here's enough to eat. I met Jónas only as an Icelandic teacher through the poems and stories. It wasn't until I started reading more that I discovered the naturalist and his travels through a country that interests me as much. You can imagine it a little visual. This image that I quoted from Valdimar Leifsson is also amazing. I'm not sure that many have seen her because she needs to be bought. There would be one thing I think such a seat might offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u64	Mr. President. All is three. Here comes a third senator out of ten for the Northeast standard, which says: "Merry the sixth, the seventh, and the eighth members of the council see the sound and the third Icelandic teacher, thank you very much. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm very pleased with this initiative. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's selection and was very happy when I offered to be a cohesor to this proposal. I want to say the word, too. paritaprevir Olsen, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, the web, the son of Jonah, is good. The web, together with the scientific web of the University of Iceland, is a little tough for my talk here. Who was that Jónas? Isn't it the guy who came to his house after a scrap, fell on the stairs, broke himself a little bit badly and then got hurt and died? Because it wasn't penicillin already? I don't know. But that is not everything. Jónas Hallgrímsson was not only one of the beloved poets but also a great author in that area. With President's permission, I'm going to read here a little bit of the scientific web of Iceland's University: ▪ Few people appreciate how good Jónas's vocabulary was, and even fewer people remember that Jónas wrote more than poetry. He was an excellent translator and also wrote a good deal about his field of education, nature. His respect for the language, his language, and his sensitivity to the nudity of his tongue enabled him to express his thoughts and others in such a way that using things or ideas that were previously out of harmony in Icelandic language and new words and combinations in poetry and free language would seem familiar and as part of the root source of the matter. [...] One of Jónas's most famous songs is Gunnar. It contains many words that Jónas evidently created. They fall so well that the contents of the song are so vivid that the reader visualizes the land as an open book. He sees the comely spring of heaven's blue, the towns of small towns, the slides of ravens, and the pleasant flowers of the countryside. He looks in his mind at the cleverly yellow eagle, who looks forward to the hunt, stands on the slope of a striped field, and hears the waves of the shore, listens to the waters of Eyjasand, and provides tables of a beautiful spoon (ship) waiting for Gunnar and Kolskeggur. On the road to the ship are spoons from yoar (horses) on the way with their masters. In the U.S.A., Jónas addresses the land as a barren, white mother and speaks of land miners as liberal heroes. In the Visa of Iceland, singing about the joys of hopelessness, the monsters of the gods revive the soul, and on the day of the festival, we call it in the court of hope. Another vision receives the reader in his poem Mother's love. There Jónas envisions the freezing merger, where a mother is traveling with her child through a dark night, giving up before the storm, and feeling found under a snowy snowstorm. Jónas makes a statement that describes a difficult journey in Icelandic winter, so the reader responds well to the coldness of his life and can fit in with his mother. Jónas made much more words. He spoke of the turning white snow, the sea blue waves, the skys, the look of love, the beautiful sun, the likes of ice blue, etc. He invented words such as gravity, ellipse, featheryness, medium-streaking power. In fact, one day I heard that he had invented a candidate. In fact, my sources are not of the scientific web, just that it is being held in place. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's why I'm saying it in advance. A respectable president. This is the kind of job that we're going to need here, and I really hope that there's going to be a career.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u65	Mr. President. I could not resist the temptation to come here as a Sunnlander and say a few words about Jónas Hallgrímsson. There are few people of this generation, Jónas's generation, who are the most desirable of men. There is no need to think for a long time about why that is so. It's for his own good. In spite of that, he's still a little secret, that man. I don't think he's completely clear. The witness was here in a good film by Valdimar, Leifsson of Leif. Her title is exactly who was he, that Jónas? How true that is! But he was certainly the author of terms and words, and he benefited greatly from Icelandic language. To create words like air, it takes a great deal of vision. Even humans have different meanings in the word "air. " Now she's a genius. Jónas, of course, did more. He actually introduced modern lions into our fine society and was at the same time one of the pioneers of modern science. I admit right here that he's very personal with me because I'm a geographer and poet, and somehow I've always looked to this fine man who, I don't want to say good-looking but as a man's inspiration. I have a specific idea in addition to those that are presented in this fine pact of Congress. Jónas Hallgrímsson was a pioneer in one field, i.e. wrote Iceland's first volcano story. Of course, Eggert Ólafsson and Sveinn Pálsson written about these matters, but they had some eyeglasses other than Jónas. The unpublished volcano story of Jónas, son of Hallgrímsson, is, in effect, the first of modern - day flows. I would think it right to put Jónas Hallgrímsson in the north just a little wider and to take in a man like Thoroddsenur's Þorvaldur and his volcano story at the same time, or let's say that the original military service in geologic science in Iceland; Guðmundur G. Bárðarson, who I am now not sure of where he was from; and a younger prime army like Þórarinsson, who eventually became a world-famous scientist in certain fields because of an assortational age which he was author of, with more men. He's a D.O.W.s. Everything would be okay back there. What I propose is to expand this idea, covering more than just Jónas Hallgrímsson, although he is a large part of such a mansion, but to extend it to people how the Icelanders became experts in volcanic studies or volcanoology without going further than World War II or so. I have designed one of 15 exhibitions both in the country and abroad, in nature shows, and in other ways. I can see the possibilities in this even though this location is not in Akureyri or in the urban core, it is in the beautiful, remarkable frame of action at Braun. So I think it's very necessary. I'm not going to the financial side. Others must offer intelligent suggestions in this regard. But I think it's very important to have a case that deserves all support from the House of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u66	V.E.G. President. It's a pleasure to listen to the natural scientist Ari Trausti about the poet. When I listen to what I'm saying. Trausti Ari, the king's mind looks to all the natural songs that Jónas composed, e.g. When we watch Gunnar, who's full of magnificent natural lights, like a dog. paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfsson only came in earlier. I think there's very good information about the environment and the landscape as it was back then. But as we have also seen, Jónas Hallgrímsson was a new publisher of Icelandic poetry. Among other things, he is estimated to have written the first Italian sonnet, which is a very special poem called Gunnarsolima. But then there are two of the last things called octava. They're both Italians out. This includes the way Jónas actually draws down in the song of the lovely, quiet, yet strong way in these last two matters. I think it's a pretty good idea for a man. paritaprevir Ari her Trausti in a volcano show, she wondered, " Is there no reason to set up a special show with the pioneers in that area? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u67	Mr. President. Of course, this can be done in many different ways. What I saw in itself was stretching this place out over Jónas's self by simply bringing in the pioneers, not all Icelandic volcano history or volcano research, but only those few men. Let us not forget that geologists in Iceland until World War II could be counted almost on the fingers of one hand. They all came to this story, this largest part of Icelandic geology, which can be called volcanoology, to draw them into the real history of Jónas's origin. That part of the show isn't the main thing. The important thing is still Jónas Hallgrímsson. However, the thought was merely spreading the idea, making it more useful and thus having more appeal than only Jónas himself. I'm not entirely judgmental of it in itself, but this can be worked out in many ways without adding to a tremendously larger cost. But don't forget that the Þorvaldur of Thoroddsen wrote a thick volcano story in German that was released to him by the dead. Guðmundur G. Bárðarson was one of those pioneers, as I mentioned, and then Sigurður Þórarinsson, newly introduced into a global volcano study. That's where you could put the line. That's what I was trying to explain in some of the short cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u68	A respectable president. I thank all the speakers here for an extremely informative discussion. I can say, as a senator who has lived in all the elections, except for the Northeast District, unfortunately, that I think this is a very good idea. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] At least there's no ball on the road. But I really miss that there are no more here. There are, however, some members of the council that I think would have made a lot of money with the lectures that have been here. I think I'm richer after listening to them. I just wanted to take advantage of this as a senator outside the Northeast District and say that I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u69	A respectable president. I suggest here for a hearing about carnivores, but I use that word to separate from the word animal culture in which animals are cultivated for human consumption or for the use of meat or other food products. The proposal is to hide the marine economist and agri-gri-environmental development of carves for experimental purposes - where the production process takes place, how long until the products of carnivore become competitive - and to plan the implementation of technology for Icelandic agriculture, and, in fact, sea fishing, to speed up the competitiveness of carnage products by traditional fishing or breeding animals. Generally speaking, a form of meat without the use of slaughtering animals is a process of making meat. The idea has existed since 1912 when Alexis Carrel managed to keep the cells from the heart of chicken alive for 34 years outside the body of a living organism, but it was only for the students who forgot to feed their cells, that they died; The Wondering Cell, or the immortal cell, was spoken of in this regard. Winston Churchill predicted in 1931 that within 50 years - it did not last, but may be somewhat close to the latest forecasts - we would be free of the absurdness of growing a whole chicken just to eat a thigh or a chest. In 1995, the U.S. Food Institute (FCA) adopted attempts to cultivate meat with the goal that food would not be a problem on long space trips - all of its noble goals. The main advantage of growing meat beyond animal culture for human consumption is the environmental impact, especially in terms of the problems we are facing today in this respect. Although this may be true in Iceland and elsewhere, carnivores also have the advantage that antibiotics do not need to be used. In fact, we do not use antibiotics in animal culture here, but there is one of the advantages of carnivores that no antibiotic is needed in such cultures. There have been extensive studies on the environmental effects of carnivores. Carnivores send 789966% less greenhouse gases than traditional animal species, use 99% less land space - that is a huge difference - uses 829966% less water and 75.945% less energy. Only in bird farming is less energy used than in carnivore. No matter what Iceland does to prepare this food-making technology, we will have to cope with the changes in carnivores and diets. Although the demand for meat from animals certainly does not disappear, similar to the demand for wild prey, we have not disappeared, although we have domestic animals, it is likely to fall very low, although only because of environmental impacts and animal protection policies. This may have a significant impact on agriculture and fishing exports in Iceland, even a positive effect, since the demand for production from organic animals could increase and such production could become much more valuable. The effects here may be different from those in other parts of the world where the idea of carnivore actually replaces production of meat. It is therefore very important that Iceland is prepared for this technological progress, both by implementation and by law. During the last term, I asked a seafaring and agricultural minister to see if the development of this technology is being monitored and how it could have been affected in Iceland. The simple answer was: No, and I don't know. This was of interest to me, for shortly earlier it had been announced that within a decade this technology could become competitive with traditional production of industrial production from animals for human consumption. I would tell people to find that discussion, for it was very interesting in other ways. At least these ideas are something we should know about; we should know what is to be expected. I find it very interesting in this technology that it is the first real revolution in food production since we stopped being museums and hunters. All the technologies that have become in agriculture since then have actually been successful in making the same ideologies more efficient, the idea of farm animals and seed in a field; the concept of production that is not dependent on the resource but is not necessarily close to consumers. This is what a carnivore can add. It is not local production dependent on putting a fence around an animal in the field; therefore, we can produce the meat in the desert. Then outside the horizon are other technologies that are also important, e.g. A revolution in creating energy and revolution in production, such as a 3D print, and so on. It is also a step toward leaving local manufacturing processes for a specific distribution. This will rid us of the huge distribution system that we rely on to transport goods from one corner to another, an enormous cost, and a great deal less than we can imagine. A parallel to these technologies can be drawn in carnivores with other recent technological advances, e.g. on the digital revolution of music and films. Suddenly, the distribution of music and film was not dependent on the manufacturer and his distribution system. This led to intense revolutions and problems as to how we hated that system. We're still arguing about how we're supposed to have this. Instead of getting into an argument and all kinds of trouble, let us try to get ahead of ourselves and try to see how this will affect our community as it does. Carnage is not limited to domestic animals; it embraces animals that are not as easy to put around; I mean, lions, whales, eagles, whatever people think of. Animal protection grounds for the catch of endangered animals are very strict, and we could actually leave nature alone. This technology has a tremendous potential. The aim of this conference resolution is simply to prepare us for the changes that carnivorous technology causes in the current industry and in human society, not just in Iceland, but throughout the world. This may not be a reality within 10 years, those scientists who predict it may be in Kári Stefán's prophecies to acquire more research funds, etc. However, though the time will be twice as long, the results will be so huge that all the steps we take will be able to make this happen sooner and later, mostly in terms of environmental and animal protection principles as I have traced them. I go so far as to say that technology is a foundation for creating peace in the world. If no one is hungry, the motivation for war is simply much less. It is also true of energy, but likely there is a energy revolution that could contribute to the lack of national competition and national competition for food production. These two technologies could completely help the situation of the world's military affairs and our rich tradition of arguing with our neighbors. On the other hand, without an argument about eating in the stomach, they will be much less likely to argue with them. I think it's a good exercise to think about the future. You see, it is always better to be prepared for the changes that we see to be close - looking rather than always going for a chase. This arrangement is intended to prepare us for the process of thinking about the future instead of being in a chase.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u70	Mr. President. It's not just some strange Pirantars who are a little fond of this idea of cultivated meat. Those at the Farmer magazine, the countermaginatory media, have found that this is the way in the near future, most likely, a technology that is going to be completely new to the world, no less or less. In the first March of March, issue of the November 5, issue of The Watchtower, this magazine contains a small piece of branches bearing the title meat on each plate of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. I'm gonna let me read it, it's a short reading, with President's permission: In the past few years and technically nothing that stands in the way that meat can be cultivated in zoos is like vegetables in the greenhouses. The logic of the spoken - of meat culture is also the case of the animals. that cattle and other meat - producing fish are increasingly environmental problems and moral wrongs in animal history. In recent years, research has resulted in tens of thousands of reductions in food costs. Today, the cost of growing meat is only three or four times the cost of traditional farming. It is believed that if the past few years continue to progress in the breeding of meat, meat will become cultivated on the plate of those wishing to grow in less than a decade. Today, it's easy to grow hamburgers, but it's been harder to grow ribeyes and gardens. Efforts to raise chicken meat have gone well, but at this point it is not known to be cultivating dilka meat. In addition to pointing to the growing environmental and animal well - being of talking, advocates grow on the meat of technology so that it will eliminate famine in the world. According to reports on the production capacity of cultured meat, about 20 trillion chickens from one stem cell of chicken should be made in three months. That's all there is to it. Mr. President. I certainly hope that the Icelanders will join the nations who care about these great developments that will change the world completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u71	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for his talk and wanted to mention one thing that was mentioned in the Bjord magazine that said the price was three or four times higher than that of traditional meat. However, it does not take into account that traditional meat is eliminated by various contracts; environmental costs resulting from conventional animal development are not taken into account, and many other costs are likely taken into account. We are far closer to competitiveness than these three to four times the cost. Thank you so much for reminding me of the Bjord article, I left it in my story talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u72	A respectable president. The bill on this subject is Pirata's idea of a free hand hunt and I'm going to review the report. The objective of this bill is to improve the situation of coastal fishing not only by taking into account economic and safety issues. Coastal fishing has proved its value to support smaller settlements, to create innovation in the fishing grounds, and to contribute to the diversity of marine resources. The bill suggests that there is a more extended period of time than has previously been done for longboats to reduce the risk of hunting in the weather. Coastal fishing is now equipped with some 650 boats. The different conditions of the country and its application have led to considerable division within the system, yet there has been great interest in fishing. The Hook Summing System is under attack because of changes in the length and volume of small boats, resulting in a large compression within that system. On it. Three years later, the number of boats has decreased by 77 and is now 227, not because of poor fishing boats but because of fishing costs just higher than a small boatman can carry. With a bill this, the plan is to strengthen the platform of small boats for those who do not have a catch mark, as well as economics for small boat sailors. The benefits of the coastal fishing system today are three: First, they match the state of a country that does not follow specific boats. Second, the coastal fishing system contributes to innovation in fishing waters, where the cost of sharing in coastal fishing is less than in the fishing sector. Third, coastal fishing boats burn well within one third of the oil that tugboats to burn by fishing at the same level of fish, nor do they harm the bottom of the ocean by any means. According to a 2009 report, which promises to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland, more than three times as much fuel as local fishing equipment is reported. So much community and environmental interests are concealed in extending and supporting this system. These changes will reduce demand for markets with increased freedom to commercial sea attendance. It affects the types of projections that hire from source to output that need to meet the local government's demand for contribution to the mobilization of municipal resources. This bill assumes that the change in the treatment schedule and the provision of the resources derived from the source is 5.3% at 3 mg. Section 8. legal about the control of fishing. Such increases do not conflict with discussions about various other systems of 8 grm. is to some extent out - of - date and must be removed. In 1st. are provided for several changes in Article 6. legal about the control of fishing. The length of a beach fishing period is suggested to be extended from four months to eight months. The period is so limited to every boat in a new 8th. 5 mg. Because the period covers the limit of the fishing year, beginning on September 1, each year, this may be interpreted as being two, one from September 1 to October 31, and the other from August 1 to August 31. It is suggested that a minister of advisers, not merely authority, but the amount of money needed to catch the beach. This adjustment enables the wording of the paragraph to measure up to the requirement set out in paragraphs 3 and 5. Section 8. The law. At present, the articles disagree slightly, possibly causing a misunderstanding or opening up to a variety of interpretations. It is suggested that Sunday fishing be authorized. Much has been discussed with the need to allow fishing five days a week. Given the original objective of the coastal fishing system for land management within 24 hours, it is unwise to allow hunting on Fridays that usually do not take place on weekends, even if markets are open. By allowing hunting on Sundays, market sales and management are moving on Monday. It is also suggested that the 5th mg. I'll add five new numbers. New number 7. face to reduce an attack by force. In this case, countries with a range of species other than the one available to fish, or up to 100 kg cod water, will be allowed to exceed the 650 kg allowed according to the 5th count. Same paragraphs. Then there is a tablet that shows the difference in coastal fishing. As you can see from species exchange, the last three lengths of shore fishing usually take place at a direct application of cod. The application of only cod should come to the land of the hunters of some areas allows other species to remain on the outside because of the dose. Thus, an endogenous trigger for evaporation is present. The bill presents a license to take 100 kg by force in other species that are normally ufs. It has more espionage to land, but there are currently evasions used as exchanges in the target system and are not really new. Thus, at the end of a fishing year, it is estimated that this rule does not put sea stocks at risk to any extent. Rather, it contributes to the better use of marine crops and the more efficient markets. New 8. limits the number of days per boat at 50 days across the entire period. This is somewhat comparable to what is permitted to every boat in the present system, where four days a week for 12 weeks last 48 days. However, the number of days in which hunting sites and their offensives have been far fewer than they have already been. 99911. a number. it is intended to generate a fishing vessel but at the same time make it possible to switch from beach fishing to mackerel or gray-free fishing. However, it is not possible to obtain hook-set clearance along with coastal fishing. Two. The bill is suggested to go from 20% to 22% of the fish stock of cod. The target system is determined to remain unchanged and to receive 20% of the total stock of motors, as suggested by the Agency's adviser, but 2% will pass to meet coastal fishing requirements. However, this increase is not expected to be fully replaced for the time being. A report on the use of major crops from June 2011 speaks of an amendment that 22% of the crops stocks under advice of the ICES (International Council for the Exploding of the Sea) and therefore should not be affected by the marketing of Iceland. In the accompanying box, you will find a table that explains the size of our numbers in relation to the previous fishing year. In a new labour policy, cod fishing is expected to increase by 2% of the total stock of cods to a maximum. I emphasize that it is to a climax, for the 9 yous. tons that are in the coastal fishing system do nothing initially, and the real need for boats today is about 21 ys. a ton, i.e. if everyone hunts the peak, which doesn't happen in fishing because fish are fishing, and fish tend to move, and sometimes we don't find it. In such cases, the plan is that, although the number of boats may be increasing, each boat always reaches its limit, but in the early years of coastal fishing, the boats were 700. This seems to be about the maximum number of boats compared to the boats that could be sead in the years to come. The new boat is an expensive vote for fishing, so there are several years before new boats are added to the pots of potential sailors. Where the budget has been applied, both the National Protection Agency and the Marine Research Institute are in Article 4. created a change in the fish price law. It is suggested that a special fishing fee be placed on coastal fishing boats at 10 k. on each land of codskiskis. This provision is aimed at trusting the management base of the Marine Research Agency by supporting the research of bottom-fish populations around the country and new research factors towards the temperature, sale, motion patterns, and separation of different cod populations around the country. For decades these teams have been financed, so the research of the Agency is a child of their time. Marine research agencies have had to be more cautious about their advice on the lack of data and error in studies that could be partially adapted to further data collection and research. Also, the special fishing fee is designed to increase contributions to the DLA, which are also under attack for financial resources. A respectable president. Dear Senator's World. Icelandic people. Today, we are at a critical time. We need to have a positive influence on the development of the country's rights to fish. If that bill is adopted, which I recommend today, of the change in fish control law, it will completely turn people's living conditions into villages and towns all over the country. The present fishing system, the eater system, has been very difficult for many, especially for small TVs. If this bill succeeds, huge steps will be taken to halt the migration from the coastal region and improve the living conditions and employment of the region. By making this bill legalized, we add access to both new and small - boat outputs to the use of the ocean's resources. We're here to put an end to the sale of markets of the largest parties and to promote the competitiveness and employment of rural communities across the country. We're supposed to rebuild our nation's ports. We're supposed to promote fish markets and add raw materials. We're here to meet the settlements of Curfjörður, Stykisholm, Souththing, Florence, Painfrefjord, Patrefrefjord, Chefjordur, Northfjordur, Kopask, Hakvik, Dalvik, Gímíney, Rausfarley, Thorves, Hornfjörður, Vestan Islands, Deserts, and Sandmaker. Farmers who developed and thrived because of their support of commercial fishing grounds, rural areas that have suffered from reduced access to fishing grounds, rural societies that have become the food system, with reduced population size, and decadence. With the bill as it is today, individuals will be enabled to pursue eco-friendly development and fishing without disrupting the lives of the sea. We add access to the raw materials for commercial fishing, a company that was badly affected during a recent fishing strike. There will no longer be a shepherd of Gullveig fishing, who will be able to hunt for a living. The system as it is installed in the bill is a modest approach to what is being done. The Norwegians have similar devices, and the deliveries go a long way. One thing is certain, though, that our human approach to the control of fish that is common in everyday speech depends on the term peddler system for human activity. Laws are human work. So I propose this bill in hopes that, contrary to political parties, we can agree that improvement is needed. Today, these changes are ideal conditions. Fish prices are low at this time, so concern is that half the Icelandic people are caught for fishing. At the same time, active men and women have long fled the country with their small boats made to Norway and the Faeroe Islands. A number of Icelanders have visited in North Noregi and have it really so good that they're expected to return. The knowledge of the waste resources went with them, adding Norway's competitive attitude to Iceland. Dear Senator's World. Here we have the opportunity to undo the damage done to the country's country's construction project. Although that harm will never be satisfied, we have an acceptable solution that serves the interests of innovation and then inhabited in the country. This will put an end to the systematic risk of fishing by those who engage in coastal fishing. It all rhymes with 1st pars. legal about the control of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u73	A respectable president. I have a problem getting into a pit here with such a fire speech being delivered here. It's true as hell. paritaprevir Gunnar Ingiberg Gunnarsson says that the waterfront is not at all at peace. During the day, political leaders received an invitation from a sea emissary to favor a team of workers who should consider the future fishing arrangements and were asking for the names of the groups in such a task force. It's supposed to be a celebration. This bill we have is a step towards reconciliation. It is environmentally available, and it contributes to the growth of the scattered settlements that are facing a very violent turnaround like a nice wind. A senator pointed out here in his list at all the places, all the space that has been beaten by this fishing system that we now live in. I suggest that this fine bill gains progress and surely hopes to do so. That would be a good thing for an Icelandic nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u74	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending a synonym for the interpretation of the switch-out of the country's members. It reads like this: The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretary to order a team of workers who will determine whether or not they can switch sides of response between two companies. Ministers consult the Minister, who deals with local government and the Union of Icelandic rural society. The following is stated in the report: With this convention resolution, financial and economic ministers are assigned to appoint a team who will check the possibility of replacements between two companies. Some people have vacation homes or soil without the practice of farming in a rural society other than a legal home. The black - eyed person goes to the local community where he has a legal home, and thus there is no kickback to the country where a vacation home or land is located. Even this may be the case with a large portion of the year on that earth or in a vacation home, which often involves a requirement or expectation of a special service from that rural society where land or a vacation home is located. For example, there are requests for snowstools and other services. Transporters insist that it is possible to find a way to cope with the above challenges. Besides, I'd like to point to things that are involved in my rural society. Many rural areas are faced with large amounts of land in the rural community sold to individuals who do not live in the area. Because of the sale, society has no income, as it is paid a fiscal tax. Often, they buy these earths for their own benefit. Also, there are no incomes for the countryside. They're going to the government. But many of these owners, and I've heard them, would like to be more involved in the communities where they buy land or houses and are much of the year. I hope this case has its place here. Besides me, it's not what you're talking about. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, Gunnar I. Guðmundsson, Einar Brynjólfsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. After a discussion, I suggest that the situation be addressed to the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u75	A respectable president. I can't help but take my heart up under the council arrangement that we're discussing here. The problem is a big one created at a summer house in small settlements where the cost of building is far above the value of possessions. Young people living in their homes do not have access to purchases or rents, and little towns become ghost-based parts of a year. In turn, rural communities themselves suffer a major loss of income because of this. Here, though, we take steps to meet the needs of my rural partner in financing, which could result in a lower weight price to be built again. Piranians have a valid policy to have a suitable extra tax left in part at the introduction site. However, the body of Congress proposal we're discussing here is another approach to the same subject, which is sponsoring our rural communities. So the proposal rhymes with ideas of authority and a theme of Porta's basic policy of protecting their power from the more powerful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u76	Mr. President. I'm only going to participate in this discussion about tax revenues or the outbacks of my community. I'm just saying that this is one of the things we've been discussing for years, i.e. how we split our income between the state and our community, that's one smell of it, i.e. spending longer or shorter time on its property, which is considered to be a factor, e.g. for vacation homes and no fees, but there they accept a variety of services, whether it is waste care or not. This also applies to many other matters. We also know that rural society has been affected by a large number of private associates that may have affected rural income more than otherwise. That's at least some explanation is that since that tax flows directly into the government budget and is not for division. So we also know what it's like now at the big tourist stand, I think of a Mý water squad, a Skull dump, a small company that's supposed to have a large number of employees over the high-resurrection period that doesn't have a legal home in the countryside, and that's no problem, because there's no staff shortage, and it's in the library. There is a situation that needs to be prepared for, as we have heard, and is part of a lack of housing. Several suggestions are suggested, but then, of course, the campaigns go to the local legal homes. Small rural areas, and larger, of course, will be the result of the expansive process. It's been discussed with me and those of the North East-Correate District, and no doubt more, I'm expecting, if it can't be changed in some way when a person is working in another rural society, I don't know if it should be based on a particular time or a certain percentage or something, since it's a rural society where you're working for some part of the responders. This is also true, as we know about the value of employment and mobility, since a partner may be working away for some cycles and comes home and accepts natural service in both places and returns to work in others. The income will only return to one place. This is something we need to consider in progress. So now that we're about to take financial policy up next week, it is disappointing not to have an agreement between the state and the rural community on the same side and on expenses and thresholds. Doesn't seem to see a country in this. But I hope this group can be said that we haven't exactly been watching it. I don't think it was taken to the former secretary of finance, and not to be expected now, but to the point that the percentage is so low that the state takes over the total tax percentage, and it goes into the countryside considerably. But somehow, these views need to be balanced. One is to raise a specific percentage, or split it, where people stay a lot of a year or less, they need to find a flat surface to split it up. But I'm not gonna have this any further. I hope it will be easier to find a flat surface, but it seems that there are other negotiations between state and rural society these days with so many extraordinary cases, and the gray areas always increase. But it's a good thing, and it's certainly right. I hope it works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u77	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with this synonym that a group will be appointed to find out if it's not wise to switch expansives between two companies. We know this, and this may have happened to a greater extent from the turn of the century to the rise then, that very many people purchased land and land were divided into small farms, where men have then used in increasing numbers to stay and even to work part of it, at that place and in the rural society in which they live and have legal households. Many of these parties, as happened by a dog. paritaprevir and the missionary Þórunn Egilsdóttir, are interested in sharing in the community they live in even six months or at least as much of the year as in a place where they have a legal home; hence, it is not unusual for them to want their income to flow to the rural society where they live. In many lands around us, people have been concerned about this trend. I'm sure they're worried here too. Of course, we need to protect good agricultural land for food production. As a result, rural society has increasingly adopted clear rules. In a national organizational policy adopted during the last terms, such provisions were just given to support the local communities, to have a clear policy on how to ensure in an organization that good soils for food production will continue to be used. But there are also other areas where nothing is wrong with it and that will improve the development of those who want to come and stay in the community. That is why this suggestion can help to produce income into that community. That's even. the will of those who have decided to divide their household in this way. Many other countries such as Norway and Denmark, for example, certainly go much further, making the requirement for living conditions, i.e. That people must live on earth that they buy. In Denmark it is mandatory to use the land for agricultural purposes. You can't buy land and own it and do something else with it. We haven't thought about going that far, but I'd like to remind you of a working group as a so-called agricultural minister. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, set up in the fall, and hopes that the present government will follow in its wake, turning to how we can defend government and land that is used to produce food for continued food production and how we deal with money and sale on earth. It is simply not that land should be like any other real estate. It is a land that we use to produce food for future generations as much as we who live here today. There's one thing I'd like to say. I think there's a great need to look at it if it applies to a vacation home as well. There could be more trouble for rural society if, in vacation homes where not permitted whole - wound farms, people who pay an answer begin to live and, as a result, can naturally demand various services for their rural society. There would be discrepancies between areas defined as entire areas where garbage is taken, children attending school and physical transportation, and the like, as well as the real vacation homes or vacation homes where they are not permitted. But as for the other factor, I think it's a great deal of ground, whether it's large, or land, that's cut down to a small farm, I think it's a very good proposal, and I'm going to come up first to support it, hoping that they'll get a good publicity on a committee and come back to the council later in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u78	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for a resolution on the interest and survival of the crown. The messengers with me are all the members of the Assembly of the House of the Tent, Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir Eagle, Eygló Harðardóttir, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Alfreðsdóttir, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Silja Dögg Gursdo the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egdal. Here's the suggestion: The General concluded to assign prime minister to order a transverse committee by independent experts to investigate in a clear and precise way: a. the effects of changes in the European Union's gang to domestic consumer behaviours, b. the impact of gang swings on the competitiveness of the Icelandic and commercial sectors of the country, c. The link between the management interest of Iceland's Central Bank and the Icelandic Calculator, d. the effect of incorporation into domestic growth, both long-term and short-term growth, and see if 3.5% of the agricultural budget contributes to high long-term growth in Iceland, B. whether Iceland's National Bank interest policy contributes to high interest costs for state funds. The report goes deeper into this, and I'm going to allow myself, by permission of a president, to slip through it. In the United States, interest rates have been much higher and have walked in other Western countries, whether by name or by physical growth. In general, high interest rates for public life as well as the competitive status of employment and long - term growth differences between continents, regardless of economy, must therefore include considerable welfare losses for the country. So there should be no doubt that growth reduction is one of the most important means of well - being today. It might be noted that large interest is interest to those who have it lend it to those who do not have it. That's why it gets bigger and bigger. Our ongoing role in politics is to make sure that those who have such a loss in the community are bearable. But if the growth is growing on its own, this project will become a little out of control and inexhaustible. These differences in interest from abroad have often been attributed to a higher level of inflation than are known abroad. This leads to higher rates of inflation and must lead to higher names. At the same time, savings are relatively low among the public in Iceland, so it takes a relatively high level of real interest to keep a domestic demand in the rise-up period. This argument in itself is valid. However, the fact is that after a collapse, inflation and inflation have been well prepared for the defined inflation targets of Iceland's Federal Bank for the past three years and more. In addition, while domestic debt has decreased as a part of land production, private consumption has increased more slowly than provisional income at the same time. So, after the collapse, the relationship between saving and growing seems to have changed. In other words and in English: People learned quite well during the collapse, use increased income to pay off debt, and increase their savings. It is no longer the same as it has been for decades. All this time, though, for the past three years, since the beginning of 2014, the bat has foretold a higher level of inflation, and according to its direction on those predictions. As a result, the bank has kept its interest too high for all that time. On Iceland's Secret Bank on web: The aim of the Bank of Iceland is to promote stable prices and financial stability. With the approval of financial and economic ministers, the bank is permitted to declare an enormous aim for inflation. A Act on Iceland's Secret Bank No. 36/2001 gives the bank full independence in carrying out the money policy to achieve an inflation target defined as a 2.5% increase in price of goods and services over a 12-month period. There will be controversy that its independence is one of its cornerstones. Thus, political involvement with the bank should be minimal. This does not change the fact, however, that the law on the objectives of the Federal Bank, and the bank in other respects, is produced by the legislator, of the Council, and is therefore essentially political. Not to be overlooked is the U.S. Federal Bank. Expenditures set by the General Parliament and by councilmen are paid by the Federal Bank, where the main account of the state funds is saved. In a similar way, taxes are paid into the financial account of the Federal Bank, and it can be said, as it were, that the Sentencing bank funds provide every public service necessary. The hanging bank cannot deny a state fund for banking, such as paying pay that the General has agreed to take place, even if the Councilman can make a comment about the economic effects of such expenditures, which he often makes. Then the Council of State bonds will be issued on the market. Thus, while the bank is acting independently when it comes to the application of its controllers, it is a significant way of doing business with political parties. One of the Cords' main controls to ensure inflation targets is the so - called direct growth, which is the basis for the country's growth points. The higher the growth of the Federal Bank, the higher the market growth. It is not uncommon for a so - called growth exchange of the English language called the ◯carry trade to be practiced on the markets of small coins, such as the Icelandic crown, when investors take loans on small interest rates and investors where higher interest levels are served. This was particularly prominent in the fall of 2008, in the leading of a bank collapse. At that time foreign funds poured to the country, the dollar grew, and the situation grew. The late bank had no other way of holding back inflation than to increase growth, the only control device he had at that time. This made more money for the country, and the problem grew; a vicious cycle came to an end. We now conclude this here at the General Assembly of June 2016, to prevent this from taking place the way we knew about it, but with enduring interest, this problem is also evident. It is obvious that the Society's Maturity Policy plays a major role in how much money came to the country in leading the crash. The high interests closed investors to the country. In many European countries, growth may now be around 0%, which is, of course, abnormal, but in Iceland it is 5.0%. The situation today is that Icelandic investors have lived in a currency capital since the fall of 2008, and because of these, there has been an imbalance in the current importance of property in their libraries when it comes to domestic and foreign assets, but in some cases it is not the case. Because of high interest in Iceland, the motivation for pension and other Icelandic people is reduced, investing - to distribute the risks of investment between Iceland and the rest of the world. Now we can expect a change to occur after we complete the procedure. The balance of the unstable Icelandic economy is going to be too much compared to the foreign economy in the financial collections of pensions, and this reduces their strength to cope with economic losses. This situation cannot be considered suitable. As currency flows into the country, the Icelandic dollar's question increases and grows stronger. This enhances the level of level gain and helps to control inflation. It will be more expensive for foreigners to come here and stay here. When currency returns to the country, the harbor bank needs to increase its currency reserves to meet the expected discharges. This results in a great deal of interest in him. Now it's time for the bank's currency to reach 800 billion dollars, i.e. The currency man. The rising costs of the Federal Bank, which can be attributed to its accumulation in foreign currency, can be the result of the bank's own growth policy. As the bank's profits are paid for, the increase in interest of the Society reduces its profits, which can again be viewed as a financial loss. Then there may be a postmortem of loss on the Secret Bank, whose reason might, for example, be the case. The bank's high interest costs, a desire to keep its own money positive, will lead to financial gain from a trust fund to the bank. So it is important that a full report be prepared for the interaction of the UN interest policy as well as its general interest costs, as well as the building of the currency reserve and other factors involved in its operation. It is then important that the direct interest in Iceland's Management Bank and the interest level of the State bonds in Icelandic U.S. dollar is clearly explained by the move of the Shining Bank. The growing cost of a government fund as a proportion of its total income is to make a substantial amount of hair on a global scale and to understand fully all the possible reasons for it. It is also a matter of note and answer to the question of whether 3.5% of the Pentateuch will last for a long time. There seems to be some evidence that it is too high and is a factor in growth in Iceland. It is also important to consider whether a retirement fund is required to invest a portion of its holdings on foreign markets. We fishermen have been talking over the last few weeks, months, we miss, that instead of the roof we have today, the property collection of individual pension funds may not be exceeding 30%, it would be wise to set floors where 40 or 50% of the holdings of the pensions were in foreign assets, both to have more eggs in the community's pensions bin in the country, but also to put the value of outlets to the country and from the country to walk the distances as much as we know. It is suggested that the committee be transverse, i.e. ... thatallclasses at the Council nominate in her. You see, it is very important that we form solidarities at the General Assembly when we answer such important questions as the conclusion of this resolution. According to the movers, it is necessary to get outsiders to do the work, even foreign ones, in addition to the political representatives that the party would appoint. I've completed my report and suggested after 1st. if the synopsis is directed to what? The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u79	A respectable president. Thanks for the transfer. The financial committee received an overview of government loans, and one of the questions asked by the branch office on loans was their assessment of the effect of the currency requirements on interest levels in the country. The answer was, in effect, that it was very difficult to appreciate it, but there was evidence to suggest that the fruit stalk encouraged and increased in the land. I agree that this needs special consideration. The size of the pension fund with a 3.5% crop requirement must be quite high in order to cover all pension bonds. We need to understand how much of a pension system we can have economically seen in this country without affecting things such as public growth and competitiveness, as we have discussed here in other matters. I appreciate this council mishap. She's got a lot of interesting things to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. This is one of the factors that we need to investigate regarding the synonym. The reason we put it into practice is that the growth rate and the attempt to affect inflammation with a flier, with the growth device only, is direct gang control. We feel that there may be other aspects to consider in a revised money policy. But because growth is the basis for what we see in the economy, this is one of the elements that truly need to be considered, the harvest of the pension fund. Of course, if we look to that time from the beginning of the Pension Fund, they have failed to reach this requirement of 3.5%. But it is a question of whether the requirement for maintaining competitiveness, maintaining well - being in Iceland, can never be low or comparable to the countries around us, as we really need to keep them competitive, to maintain their well - being in this country, not to create gaps between those who own the money and those who borrow them at times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u81	A respectable president. In fact, a financial committee arranged for a representative of the pension fund to introduce these matters to the committee. That's where we even came from. ... to set a floor for a variety of people who were involved in the pension fund for interest on loans from pensions. There was a little debate over how much effect it would have had, but people sitting on the other side of the table were very clear to the fact that the pension fund viewed it as a very specific floor of interest on loans. It is inevitable, therefore, that this will have any effect on the system outside the pension fund. There's definitely something we need to take a closer look and get a more systematic analysis to understand what we're dealing with, and see what effect it's having through the whole system when we change the flow rate into plus or minus. Any information request that clears the systems, is very well seen by the Pirates.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u82	A respectable president. There are a number of matters in the synonym that aim to get better information about how this will affect you. Men have pointed out, e.g. A Canadian banker, Eric Stubbs, said that if walked, by 5%, it could have a greater impact on consumption than on the 5%, which would be responsible for an increased influx and negative commercial balance. But we live in a completely different environment today after travel has become so big, and the influx of foreign currency is to the extent that we have never seen before. The economic environment today is far different from what the current money policy was shaped in 2002 or 2003. So it's obvious that it needs to be examined, and I agree with the government in that it needs to be established by the Review Committee of Money Policy. Of course, I would have chosen that the money policy would have been done in more extensive consultation than it was seen where it applies to all Icelanders. This highlights the broad consultations of all categories, especially those of independent parties. In our small country, it is sometimes necessary to get foreign people to explore the systems that we have enjoyed because humans are often and often, as it were. A senator pointed to and referred to a meeting of the legal committee, a measure of firmness in his views from places where they have the authority and interests they need to defend and speak for. In order to accomplish this, the proposal is also made for independent opinions, even foreign ones, to cooperate with the political authority here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u83	President. I'm just gonna run over the proposal that is presented here for the growth and survival of the crown. In many ways an excellent suggestion. Excellent in many respects and the full need to examine and examine matters that are listed there, not just once, but that are to be kept in mind by these issues, i.e. the impact of our environment on our economy. Among the things that transporters want to be examined are the effects of changes in the Icelandic 'nother' gang practices that are, of course, very needed, especially now that a large part of the crew of the kroner, i.e. The amount of money that is strong is a good reason for the increase in money that has become available in society, i.e. The import is cheap and the power to buy is increasing. Similarly, the effects on consumption and import are a major factor in the management of a temporary low-susceptible inflammation, i.e. The import costs less than once, especially oil, gasoline, and anything weighing in that measure. There is good reason to examine this in detail, but it has been done even though the effects may flare up with us all around us. It also suggests that the impact of gang swings on Icelandic competitiveness and employment practices will be examined, i.e. effect on gang swings. Now we have various terms for changing our dollar from day to day. Sometimes we talk about fluctuations, sometimes about fluttering; then we're talking about 5, 10, even 15%. Recently, a flutter on the crown has been reported when it has been growing by 51⁄2-10% in a short period of time. In every normal country with a somewhat stable currency and a stable price - price system, this would be called a collapse and a collapse on a currency. But we who are used to it all call it a flutter and a slight fluctuation. Similarly, a suggestion is made to examine the link between the European Union's direct growth and the Icelandic kroner, which is full of reason to do - and vice versa, i.e. influence of the crown as a currency and its gang on ellipse growth, how the Cronium's position can affect the decision of money policy committees on national home-building growth. It is just as important to do so. I suggest that further discussion will take place. A transporter mentioned several times the accounting requirement for the pension fund, whether it could contribute to high long - term growth in Iceland. For one thing, it is not the interest of pension funds but, more importantly, the fruitage they have gained from our money, the pensioners, in recent years, and must reflect the rights we believe we have earned from the pension fund when we need it. In order to pay us out at the time, the pension fund will have to increase our money. Sixth, it is suggested to see if the Federal fruit policy contributes to a high financial cost, as if it were a non - political policy. The country's problems are determined by factors other than the World Bank's policies. The late bank has no such policies; there is no goal of growing in a particular number, 10, 5, or 1%. It is not the National Policy of the Federal Bank; growth is determined by other aspects of society. This should be kept in mind when talking about growth, high and low, why growth is high. They actually reflect something else that happens in society, other decisions, other economic factors, but not that it is directly involved in the particular interest policy of the World Bank. I would have wanted more details to be examined in this relationship, i.e. In terms of growth and success of the crown. So I refer to the committee on this subject as well as to the movers. The effects of the crown as a currency on growth need to be examined, the effect of having a small independent currency in our current situation. Is it possible that this will affect the growth in the country? And interest decisions? I think it's very important that we look at it. For one thing, it is being examined by the government to review the money policy, and I find it sad that we look at it from all sides, including whether our currency has any effect on growth and then on interest. The proposal will discuss the independence of the Federal Bank, that it is one of the cornerstones of the bank, and its political involvement should be minimized. Although the bank operates according to the current law set here at the Council. What is the objective of the Federal Bank? In the 3rd. The law on the Secret Bank says, with the permission of the President: The Cord of the Bank is designed to contribute to a steady price. With the approval of a minister, the Secret Bank is permitted to declare an enormous aim for inflation. Iceland's secret bank shall promote the implementation of the government's policy for economics, although it does not seem to violate its primary objective. - That. to maintain economic stability in the country. In other words, the secret bank has the task of seeing to it that government policy is carried out as long as it does not interfere with economic stability. This lasts longer, for the Council of Governments must exist. On this point, politicians who often complain of high interest should decide whether their actions here in this room or from the Council will be directly involved in the continuation of the land's interest. As an example, I refer to the tools and tools that the Fendolman has in a gross way called in, decommissioned, with interest, or by increasing the binding of banks, i.e. That the money doesn't make traffic. Similarly, the State can decommission money through tax changes, i.e. ... witha tax raise. With the same approach, the state can expel money, i.e. by tax reductions and by increasing the thawing that again becomes necessary in other areas, action must be taken in order not to be harmed. It is time for the bank to use the equipment he has, including the machine he has. by increasing interest. That's how it's been a little bit over the past few years. Time and again, the state has poured into the community tens of billions of dollars with reduced taxation on those who have most, with special transfers from state funds to the highest population, thus increasing consumption and increase in filancy, and at the same time called for someone else to take action to prevent the consequences of it. Which are what? Yes, it is the job of the Office to intervene when government policy can potentially disrupt economic stability. This requires growth. Someone will then have to take the money back to reduce the burden. This is to be kept in mind regarding the conditions that were here before the collapse, in the turn of the crash, with a strong gang. Money flowed into the country. Sounds to me like the transferer of the proposal is to compare it. Maybe interest should have been lower then. Perhaps we should also examine the impact on the economy if interest was always low, no matter what the government did, no matter what the influx of currency was in the country, no matter what the country's population was, no matter what the government did by pumping out money on taxes and the transfers of any kind. What would have been the effect on our economy and our standard of living if the Navy had never taken action to eliminate the frequent measures that have been determined in this hall? Over the years, I am happy that such a suggestion has been made. I think there is every reason to investigate and examine these issues, i.e. The growth and walking of the crown from all sides, and without prejudice, discuss it so that we can reach some conclusion, no matter how reasonable it may be. [[The president calls.]] I hope that we will discuss this and come to a conclusion that will help us to get a better hold of the economy than has been for decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u84	V.E.G. President. I am now offering a proposal for a resolution on telecommunications and telecommunications programme. My importers are down. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. The proposal suggests that the General concluded that a prime minister would use the introduction of a common principle for all the Ministry of the Management Board on telecommunications and the use of telecommunications at such meetings in order to facilitate institutions, rural governments and other sources across the country of national relations with the Ministry. The secretary of a ship in this intention of working group making recommendations for the procedure and the implementation of a new task plan. The secretary introduces the results of the work group to a date no later than September 2017. The reason for the contributions to this assembly is my opinion of procedures and practices within the administration. As we all know, many pots are broken, walking and happening, and many other items to be added. This matter is a means of calling attention to things that are not too complicated to fix but that may be of great importance to many. The experiences of people in the country would increase the fact that the Ministry and such institutions were services of service rather than governments in the same country as the experiences of many today. It may be inconceivable to receive information from potential sources. Not that it's easy to request telecommunications, you may be able to figure it out, but that people experience that there's great trouble and trouble, and people in the council could even be badly affected by such devices. I'm not the only one who has that opinion and speculation. In the beginning, I made the decision to present such a matter as an ex - inquirer. paritaprevir The branch office of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, who proposed to the 145th legislation of eight e-mails to the then secretary of the Council, who served with his employees and subcontinents of the country, the use of telecommunications in such meetings, technical training of employees on these devices, and other related items. In response to the senator's inquiries, it can be noted that it is a custom in every Ministry when it comes to telecommunications and the use of equipment for such events. In most cases the staff has been trained to use telecommunications equipment and only in one case has the Ministry developed and presented policies on these issues. In general, it seems reasonable to believe that there are high levels of waste management in the management sector if telecommunications are available to those outside the capital area who have to be consulted with consultations, whether appropriate and acceptable equipment is available in consultations and whether employees have the necessary technical knowledge for use of such equipment. This is very clear in the answers the Ministry itself provided at the time. The above requests only protected meeting halllagues with their own employees and staff of the subsidiaries in the country. However, it should not be forgotten that a large number of other organisations, individuals and companies as well as public agents, have residences in the country, and may need to consult the council, even as do members of the capital area. It is enough in this context to mention rural governments throughout the country and educational and health institutions in the country, as well as a number of companies, important to national employment, have settled outside the city market. The government, with the National Commission at the head of the United States, must be in place for all the people and services of individuals and legislators alike, regardless of their residence. It is not quite possible that people with a southwestern corner of the country have more access to administration than those of the country's population, where they live, e.g. due to the inability and cost of travel, it's harder to attend a meeting in a house - to - house hall all in Reykjavík. Strong equilibrium views suggest that those who need to attend a meeting at the council demand to do so in the form of telecommunications, and that the available equipment and knowledge of its use are of consultations. In view of this proposal, it is important that the clear and consistent rules of telecommunication and related topics, such as the necessary equipment and training of personnel, be clear and consistent with the guidelines for a meeting. Transporters believe that at relatively low cost, mainly at the purchase of equipment and training personnel, there may be improved administrative practices and high costs of tourism as a result of meeting costs. To this end, it is suggested that the prime minister be committed to preconceiving to become a procedure for telecommunications that will be implemented in a consistent manner in all councils. Along with the rules of action, a clear plan for the implementation of the rules will be implemented. The rules normally include will be discussed in which cases the department should offer representatives who are meeting with telecommunications and any procedure for such meetings. The implementation programme will include Specified time frames and steps in the recording of a new job, on staff training and how to obtain needed special equipment and ensure that it and its use will be consistent between recruitment practices. I'd like to add it before I open my case that what also recommends the implementation of this case is that technology is there, it is known, and most people know the technology. Civil authorities throughout the country that you regularly meet have developed the use of telecommunications equipment for several years, such as. in cooperation with national parts of the network and, of course, business employees. Today, a lot of Icelanders are doing some telecommunications here and there. Remote telecommunications and telecommunications, this technology is accessible, it is known, we have become accustomed to using it. It is, in fact, remarkable that the Ministry has not advanced in this field. I mentioned before the operation plan, the importance of it. It is one thing to plan and then follow through on it. I am stressing that, in addition to providing an induction plan and a time frame, such a schedule needs to be followed down firmly by regular assessments, at least at least for a while while, this is being arranged. For a few years, I've wondered if there's any reason to put this matter together, but the reason I'm doing it right now is that things are moving way too slow. I believe that by presenting the case and that there will be reviews and discussions in the following committee, whether it is finally approved at the Council or not, it might be possible for those in charge of this matter in the scheme of action. I don't believe the will exists. Technology is there, the knowledge, the cost is relatively small - there is no basis for implementing this and should be an entirely parapolitic community. I can see that both of my partners have wanted the word, and I can't wait to hear what they have to say and hope that they're getting positive pay from the Council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u85	Madam President. I want to thank her for the case and tell her exactly as she said it was a long time ago. I've been thinking about the years I've spent at the council, since 2013, that I've been involved in a budget board before, and that in the past, even as a district officer outside of the country in winter, when it was being made up of funds, that was 15 minutes, 15 minutes with a financial committee, trying to promote their affairs. We were the first member of the United States of Mountain, who wanted to have a telecommunications meeting with a financial committee. There's been a slight policy. Then it was. A few rural communities continued to make good use of this, especially those with a longer way of applying, and that is understandable, since it is not just costly, but takes an enormous amount of time. For the inhabitants of my house, it may be only the day to go to, but if you're west on the beach, even these two whole days, stay, and other costs, which, of course, matter. There are other things that could be done in a short period of time, though it certainly is with the institutions and rural groups that come here and meet, for example. A legal committee, that they may try to find time for their own problems and so forth. But this is really just because, in view of the local community, such meetings are necessary to communicate directly with those who have the funds. Since I named my community, I'd like to say that when we were united, in 2006, sailing, and Ólafjörður, the tunnel did not exist. It was because of the low honors to go, which isn't everybody's favorite. This is the kind of road that most foreigners want to go today because it's interesting to drive. But it was so, as soon as the first snow came, it was just shut. One of the first things a united rural society did was to buy telecommunications. All committees and council meetings were conducted, however, local officials met at a meeting that was always fishy. Then we drove a few hundred miles on a longer road because they were held in the town council. But it was as if it were hard work and wise to do so. Many times people must meet at a real time - not in a real time, but in a real - life way. But there is so much more to do with telecommunications. This is pragmatic, and this is an equal basis, giving everyone a much better access to the administration. It's not supposed to be that complicated. It is a little unusual that the council is rather neglected when it comes to telecommunications. There has been a man, when we were e.g. starting a meeting during the last term, how the situation was then. It's certainly improved since then, but better if it works. Especially in the plot itself. This is where most people, health care professionals and others, who need to have a conversation directly with a minister or with these institutions, can do it without much time to have a brief meeting. I'm not going to have any further issues on this. I just think it's the best and can't really see why it shouldn't be settled, because it's not such a cost, I think. I'd like to see that introduction to this new process would be real in the fall preferably, but if not for the next year, something like that, because, of course, everyone needs adjustment and all that. But I think this should be possible in a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u86	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for suing this case and following up the council. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's zeal drew attention to this, as it were. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir did explain, asking about this subject submitted to the last term. This is where it goes. A senator steps further and proposes to correct the failing that exists according to the answers to those inquiries. I'm not going to talk about this for a long time, but I'd like to be glad that this is the proposed implementation of a common protocol for all the Directorates of the Board for telecommunications and the use of telecommunications at such meetings in order to facilitate institutions, rural administrations and other sources for national contact with the Ministry. What was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Dögg Döggar Gunnarsdóttir is particularly important, but it is also that the follow-up of the project, how the induction process has worked, and how we are able to use these technologies that we truly have, and are present at meetings, thus bringing the Ministry of a particular film to the country and making it easier for local managers and people who work in various companies, governments and other projects to have access to their resources. You see, at least in the discussion, a number of services have increased to the capital area. People now need to attend this service to the capital. It is a responsibility that we look at how people can be helped. In fact, I am surprised at what is stated in the report that in response to the inquiry presented during the last term, most of the staff have been trained in telecommunications, and only one case has the Ministry developed and presented policies in these matters. It shows that there are a wide range of situations in this between recruitment methods. It is very important that these factors are consistent. As mentioned, technology exists. The knowledge is there in most cases. We must see how we can make it easier for people to do so. There's a lot of difference, for example. to people on the West, if I only watch the Northwestern standard, be able to sit in front of a computer or other telecommunications and meet. Time is precious. That's how time will be more useful to people. It's all that matters, except for the conveniences. It's a long-term project. I agree with the words that have fallen here. I'd also like to say that this must be saved in the whole process, the whole system, huge money, because all travel is expensive, time costs money. I really hope that this conquistador is moving with people, being discussed at the moment. I'll be all right here soon. I'll be right there. General. We may see an immediate improvement in the telecommunications and access of people in the country to the councils and the Ministry's administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a Senate resolution on international flights through Hornafjörður Airport. Transporters with me, Vilhjálmur Árnason, are Ariri Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Elínardóttir Sólólól Sólnarólólólólólólólnar, Oddný G., Harðardóttir, Páll Magnússon, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gursdotsdotir, and Smári Mccarthy. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide transport and local government administrators to see if at the Hornafground airport there is sufficient equipment and facilities for international flights with smaller passenger planes and machines on a ferry flight now authorized to fly through the airport. This proposal has previously been moved for some time but has not been fulfilled and is now reassigned. The Hornground airport plays an important role in the transport systems of the country, as do other international airports. It is important to examine the ongoing operations and development of the region for the benefit of the local people and their professional life. Clearly, the location of the field affords a wide range of opportunities for increased travel, especially following the development of Lake Bay National Park. To that end, it is necessary to examine the availability of adequate equipment and facilities for international flights. In January 2008, the Air Force worked on the request of rural and other stakeholders to make the airports at Isafjordur, the Western Islands, and the Cape on international airports, what measures would be needed to take to make this possible, and what cost of such changes might be. The report says that improvements in safety and monitoring factors at the requested airports will have to be made so that smaller air planes can be received in international flights and planes on the ferry. The report evaluates the potential and costability of these measures, but there are three main measures to be taken into consideration. A slight change must be made in Annex 1 to the November Regulation. 53/2003 and add Hornground airport to the list of defined border stations. In addition, the requirements for Regulation No. 464/2007, about airports due to human activities and because of the security and airport cards and the conditions of Regulation No. 985/2011, air protection. According to Article 5. Regulation No. 464/2007 will fall under the category I in the sense of Regulation. The Hornground Airport now falls under the category of registered landing sites. When an airport is removed from the landing site to plan an airport in category I and defined as an international airport, the regulations of the above regulations have a primary impact on costs. Qualifications for Regulation No. 464/2007 for human activities includes largely the stock cost for workers, such as security sites. Costs due to the required regulations No. 464/2007 for quality and security and airport card services comes from staff working on the projects both on the field and in the central Istavia departments. Source costs of the requirements set out in Regulation No. 985/2011 is for arms search tools, for example, changes in facilities, etc. In addition, as a result of additional assistance in the search for weapons and management for air protection at the airport itself as well as in the central departments of Istavia. At Parliamentary resolution of a four-year transport program for 2015-2018, No. 65/145, says that the Horn of the Ground Airport over the period receives a total of 139 million. K. for maintenance and regular renewal equipment. At the conclusion of the matter, the greater part felt the need to strengthen domestic flights specifically, not just the ways that already used, but other ways to reduce prices and increase the number of trips. Made it 300 million. K. starting progress in 2018 is helping to strengthen the position of air transport as part of the public transport system. In that case, the majority of the items were considered worthy of checking the use of smaller machines on international flights to land, including land use. On the Hornfjord. This could help a lot with the distribution of tourists, as well as reduce the pressures at Keflavík Airport and increase international security. In spite of the above - mentioned facts, the Conventional Refecture proposals of this procedure is important that the Hornground airport be strengthened further and emphasise that smaller planes on international flights are allowed to land on the Hornfjord, as shown by the above - mentioned opinion of the majority. Transporters stress the importance of the initial attack on the work to further trust in the Hornfjord and the area and contribute to further development and development of the Lake Earth. Then I would especially like to stress that this is a very important project for the national airports, to get increasing activity to make the international airport more efficient, and to facilitate the management of these airports. But in this case, it's so much safety, too, because of the location of the airport. When small aircraft are flying across the ocean, it is very important to be able to cross the ocean to get fuel and so forth, and thus also environmentally. Also, when tourists arrive by airplanes to the country that are within the size category mentioned here, they don't have to fly to one of the three international airports and then fly back to the corner ground, as often happens and get rid of flying over the highlands when they have to land in Egls. So there is much to recommend. The cost is not great, and will always be paid, as any other means of transportation, always pay for the price. I suggest the highest. The environment and transport committee will be treated appropriately for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u88	Madam President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the construction of the cab spray. Besides me, the transporters are Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Gujonna S. Brjánsson. The conclusion is, by permission of the President: ▪ The General concluded that the government will bring about the construction of 1,000 cabib sprays each year starting in 2018 and at least for the next three years. The reasons for this synopsis are a serious situation in a housing market. This is only a very small step in talking about many of the important things to take in order to cope with this problem. I was now expecting people to come here to the hall to support the discussion and to draw out their fountain of wisdom and telecommunications, but no doubt members of their offices are wondering how they can happen, or out in Byko to buy apron and hammer in order to start. Madam President. The conditions of the housing market have become devastating. Actually, this is one of the biggest and most urgent tasks we are facing. It has caused huge trouble for large groups, and especially for young people. Prices are in the highest. Those who don't have money for down payment in an apartment land land in the hands of an unstable and often greedy tenement. So we need to act now. That is why, as I said earlier, we need to engage in many operations. Some are long - term surgeries like this, since it takes time to build a house, but they also need emergency solutions. I know that there have been a number of groups in this country that have come into the situation of rent rents, contracts that need to be changed, and better circumstances for renters. We need to build practical rented camps that contribute to and prepare for a developed tenet, and we need to direct the structure to nonprofit partners. However, we need to take immediate note of those who do not have a down payment and who are trapped in their parents'homes or in all too expensive tenets. In many ways, poor talk over the last days has affected the problem. Hard - working people who should not be in much trouble need to choose between paying bills, allowing their children to participate in social activities, or even to buy drugs. Of course, it is not acceptable in such a rich country as Iceland. Since a collapse, the union has used many improvements in housing since its collapse. For several years, however, the situation has proved to be inexplicable. It's been a long time since government business. Nearly four years have passed since the Continental Party proposed emergency measures to meet this challenge. But then the former government, the government of Independence Party, and the forwardings, did not want to do anything, and the theme was familiar; tax and resource expenditures had to be reduced and best supported. What's the situation now? It seems that a new government is just as out of control as it hides behind the same right course. It took threats to the labor movement to break off collective agreements recently in order to squeeze out funds to keep promises that are the basis for the last collective agreements. We must think larger, and make sure that the development ahead is to rebuild social resources for housing. Over the years, it has been clearly seen how bad the paces of independence classes and forwards were when these groups were the privateized workers'farms. Among the suggestions the Conspiracy has proposed is to monitor more closely the development of a housing market. A few years ago, it is becoming evident now that this would have been better. We need to build a public and social tenet. It was a great opportunity to do so, especially when prices were less than construction costs. We need to improve our tenure by improving our rent, supporting our rural society in order to increase the number of social housing, and we have suggested that the law to reimburse one individual apartment be tax free. That suggestion will not make any remarkable changes. But she'll still face this Airbnb problem and a rent problem. It will encourage people to think rather about renting their apartments on long - term rents, on school or on young people who need an apartment, rather than trying to profit from a tourist outbreak. The government wanted nothing to do with these routes, as previously said. But what did she do? Instead of extinguishing the fire, she poured oil on the stake. Instead of undergoing emergency surgery, she held the hostage complex while waiting for a deposit of debts. After dunes and plates, 80 billion came, mainly of the wealthiest of the country's population, leading to higher real estate prices. Young people and tenants were paid another blow in recent years. The arrival of the government under the Parliament's decree shall be on the basis of a law on general apartments, No. 52/2016. It is essential to meet the demands of unions on increased social stability and to put young people and tenants in a safe home. Those who do not have homes live under far too tight conditions. If people find an apartment at another table, all too much resistance will be required. Global prices in the capital area are increasing. That has even been true. increased by nearly 70% from 2011. Thus, many cannot buy or rent. The tenet situation has serious consequences. Research shows that tenants are far more likely to have financial problems, and tenants are more likely to live in poverty than other children. By means of trade unions, an important success was achieved in the preparation of collective agreements in 2015. A foundation for building a public tenet was then negotiated for 2,300 apartments to be built for 2019. It is a minimum requirement for governments to fulfill that promise, but it is not found in the current financial program of the 2017◯2021. In order to meet the demand for housing for the next year, the country has to be built at 8,000,510,000 apartments and for 2019 C.E. That's what I'm based on from Arion's Analysis Department of Banks. There is also predicting a further increase in real estate prices, and this, of course, will further add to the problems of those who do not have real estate. Thus, it is essential that governments establish the foretold structure and ensure that this structure will be used to further the tenet. The government has to ensure that homes suitable for children's families, young people, and earners with little savings have not benefited from the rise in prices over the years and cannot apply the laws of the last government on special property. At the open meeting of the EEA and Business Committee on February 22, 2000. asked the representatives of the National Association of Iceland that funding was guaranteed to build 300 apartments a year. They need an apartment for 300 more. I understand the Minister of Social Affairs has responded and promised. But here we're talking about adding that package because it's absolutely necessary. Therefore, I propose this conclusion that for the next few years, the building of 1,000 public rents will be started immediately, a total of 4,000 apartments. The unions have claimed that there is a lack of social stability. Therefore, clear declarations of housing structure are called for, as well as a longer and better birth source. The General must respond to these requirements in order to pay for a labour market reconciliation and meet an urgent cumulative need for rent houses. Madam President. After these discussions, I suggest that the matter be carried out to the welfare committee and be treated quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u89	A respectable president. A moving driver noted that to meet the demand for housing, 8,000 to 10,000 apartments would have to be built for 2019 C.E. A recent analysis of national records also showed that the most optimistic estimates are 5,000, the estimated need 8,000, and even 11,000 pessimistic predictions. How beneficial it is to put that number of apartments in line with something we know! 8,000 apartments means we have to build Akureyri. It's our debt in apartments. To face each year's development, we need to build 2,000 apartments just to face population growth. So we spend just four years in debt, but four years in the sense that we live in Akureyri. If we are going to make 11,000 pessimistic predictions, we need to build a whole Hafnarfjörður fun, that's the debt, and in effect, we need to start building right away. So I ask, why not more than a thousand?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u90	Madam President. It may be critical, and many have pointed out that this is not entirely bold enough. So, to answer, I think it's more likely that we can get it through and get started if we're realistic that we're going to get more of this proposal. We should not forget, too, that there are others who are building. Of course, there are individuals on the market. Here we're talking about rent stores that don't go into a business - drive system, but there are others building. In the capital area, there are now 4,000 apartments in a building, and there are indications that there are weights to meet this shortage over the next three or four years, except for what is built on the land. I find this an excellent point and really a pleasant response because our role is now in the days ahead, and weeks must be to gather all the ideas that are available to meet this need, as well as to increase the equation in the country. It sucks in this insanely fluffing, the alleged stability, that there is nothing more than the ever-growing group sitting behind and not enjoying the quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u91	A respectable president. A moving man just introduced another problem that we have to deal with. According to industrial organizations, I'm reminded, we know how many buildings there are in a building because there are two people driving around and a handshake. It is the information we have about how much housing will be ready in the near future. This may be the case with Reykjavíkurburg, with more accurate numbers, but the method used is an inaccurate method. That's one of the things we deal with when we ask about a number of, like, 1,000 apartments in this context. Do we know how much is really in a building? If we don't know, it's really hard to guess if the population should be bigger. But I think 1,000 apartments are a careful estimate based on the identification of Iceland Bank and National Records. I remember talking in other matters about improving the information system to get better numbers about the position we are in right now. Maybe it's been fixed by what's in a building. I really doubt it, considering the overall problem. But the problem is huge as it appears here, an increase of 70% in recent years. It actually appeared in that in my former job, I could not afford to save money for an apartment except because I lived with a connected person. That was in accordance with the advice of a former social minister who was valid for that matter. Sadly, not everyone has the opportunity to take advantage of that. [[The president calls.]] We need more information. Better access to information gives us the opportunity to answer if there is enough 1,000 containers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u92	Madam President. No, I don't think a thousand is at all enough. As I said before, we play out an idea that we believe is the real truth that men should not hesitate to jump on it and then take in more options. Like what? A senator says it's remarkable how the count is being made. We're talking about a huge house, these aren't invisible things, they're big things. It's remarkable that humans are using the same methods here as they are used to count migrating migratory birds. In fact, there should be much more accurate analysis, especially since construction is actually the most expensive investment ever made. The building industry is extremely polluted, so building more than you need is also wrong and wrong, so in other circumstances it can also be beneficial to have it. In the case of the increase, it must be a direct result of the lack. People are forced to buy whatever they possibly can. It is natural what is so frightening that now the free market is fully enjoying its own free market. Now people can make what they want because they know that there are so many who are in dire need and who need to be in a shelter. That, in spite of all our basic needs, is a roof over our heads. We have to spit in our palms.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u93	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Prehistoric Logi of Einarsson and the laying of this synonym, which is about the idea that the Allied Council would conclude that the government would establish 1,000 tens of tens per year starting in 2018 and at least for the next three years. It is stated in the report that this is being done on the basis of a general law adopted here at the General Assembly last spring, and I agree that structure is necessary to meet the demands of unions on increased social stability and bring young people and tenants to safe housing. This proposal, therefore, is based on a matter of general apartments that the government under the leadership of the advance party established as law during the last term. It was the highest. former minister of the Mission Party, who proposed a general camp bill to be held at ease. General. It was a matter of material pursuits. A well - being committee of the General Assembly and with great pleasure, the case was settled from there into a tripolitic reconciliation. I'm glad that we put these laws to work on the building point here because it was a very important matter for us. Councilmen and the highest. Councilmen of the forward party for our reign. According to the laws on which this council smell is based, tenants who are fired without profit - which is very important, and I hear that a carrier is still there. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson agrees that it is very important to our housing market - 18% of the stock market. The general rule is that a strain from state to state is 18% and 12% from rural society and the development of rural society can be in the form of discounts of cross-cutting costs or by sharing items from a rural society or some combination of both. In addition to this, under the laws of the prosecuting and the Supreme Court. In the last term, the minister of the advance workers had the job work done by those who built apartments, e.g. for students and disability, there's 4% additional improvement from the state. That was the bill when it came to what it was. A welfare committee, but when the bill was being treated by the Committee, there were adjustments to meet the local settlements because it was very important to look for construction in a country in many lands and to reach them by law. It was suggested that if a cold area or areas were built for a considerable length of time and where there were a number of problems with borrowing, loan institutions have not lent in agreement on these areas and are done in the capital area and surrounding it, 6% of the extra stocks could be obtained. The same could be true of these cold areas as for the conditions set, would provide 4% of additional stocks from rural areas, and could be in the form of roads or some other factor. As indicated by the proposal of this paper, this big case was our candidate during the last term of an important piece of collective agreements in 2015. The 2,300 containers reported in the agreement - the continuation of the task, in fact, are not included in the current government contract, but it has been stated to continue and to give even something in - there was an agreement between the former Supreme Court. Governments and unions back then. At the same time, these measures were part of the government's policy that people have a selection of farm shapes, i.e. to present with these regular apartments. We've changed the housing laws, and we've taken some action on the special policy. The previous talk spoke of housing plans, and I'd like to say that it is very important that the other is a housing project and an analysis of the need for housing. It is a pleasure to relate that there was a bill submitted during the last term that the camp loan fund would be assigned to keep a track of the housing market, i.e. To find out where the need is, where the need is most, and to call for communities to work housing plans and to work with them, so we don't always have to make excuses. President, following our tails, building houses, we have a plan on how we should react, but we're not always responding afterwards. It's all right that it also shows that these steps taken during the last term were one of the biggest steps that the ladder had been going on toward building a ten - year period. There were reports of this, not just when. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of the government at the time who spoke about it but also talked to unions and other members of the government about their greatest steps for a long time. We agree, and we have heard news of the need for more. I kind of have to say it here, because of what. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson has been shooting at the former government, that she has not done anything in rent, that the Conspiracy, has been a member of Congress. A senator was in the government for seven years before a former government, and nothing was done in rent cases. I think we should look forward to building on the good laws that were performed during the last term and moving forward. So I refer to my father's house when people and political parties are criticized for doing nothing about it. I'm going to use a little bit of my speaking lesson, which is actually almost over, but maybe I'm going to be able to make some of it up because I hear some of them go away. Congress officials are going to respond, to say that the entire mortgage package needs to be watched and further developed. Despite the words I spoke earlier, I rejoice in this suggestion and look forward to accepting it as a treatment. The General welfare Committee. However, in an effort to improve housing supply, housing needs to be improved by the cooperation between the state and the rural community. There is even more to look at building regulations. Even more resources need to be considered as supportive measures for those who want to buy housing, since we took action during the last term to help them. Hv. A senator who was present proposed a matter of Congress on the British method of making house purchases to meet those who were not at work, such as, perhaps, in a manner similar to the arrangement of the old custom, but the case did not come off course as a Senate case at the time. I'd like to emphasize at the end that I am celebrating this proposal, highlighting housing plans so that we're not always behind the fires, and we're looking at a total three-way housing market that's a lease market, housing partnerships, and special policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u94	Madam President. That's certainly a good idea. A senator is going to come up here and set up what laws this proposal builds. It is true that it is based on the laws of the last government. In fact, it is probably a matter of respecting good works from wherever they come from. The next day we'll be able to look it up in Parliaments to see if I've said that the government didn't do anything. I think I said she didn't do anything with the suggestions we had. But that may be wrong. There's a lot of things I can say now that I can't think at all. In this proposal of the advance party during the last term, this fine - looking social network, which is so beautiful in the forward category, appeared to disappear considerably during the last term, especially when this large - scale operation was called the correction. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator's opinion of correction has been good and proper during this period of time, whether it was likely to improve the housing situation, especially for those who have been most difficult. Or thinks so. Perhaps a senator might have been able to use these almost 80 billion more, even to build here a powerful and large social housing market?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. I'd like to start by saying I'm sorry if I've misunderstood his word; it wasn't meant to come out of words at first. A senator, and I'm here to apologize if I've been misheard. He asks about the correction. I'll be happy to admit that I'm happy with the correction. Correction was an economic action. It wasn't a social action. A number of middle-class individuals have come to us, haven't they? The senators, and they said: "Thank you, and say: " All right, even though I may not have received a crazy big sum of money corrected by them, you were ready to admit that it was not the home of the country that suffered the economic breakdown. And I'm happy if people feel better. I'm sure it was possible to have another operation that had to strengthen the position of those who have a social foot in the system, and that was done. This was done by working on general apartment laws and by trying to advance rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u96	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. It's very interesting to hear what you're saying. According to members of the council, this was not a social procedure, in the situation we are in now, when we have to resort to social resources. That's right. That's right. Senator, this was an economic operation. But what about economic activity? She let up apartment guards. She shoveled money to groups that part had nothing to do with them because the uplift, the price of a housing market in recent years, has given them back many times, perhaps not many times, but back again at least. Some people may have needed this, and we should have found ourselves in that group, we should have looked at the group that was buying an apartment in 2006 30- 2008, that really landed on this, that lost the apartments. I don't agree with what. Senator, but I respect her opinion. But I ask: Does she feel that this money could have been used differently? Then I ask, too, because she named the construction principle - it's been let down a lot, and we've actually given permission for a facility that can supply energy waste. We're going a long way to make housing a little slow. We cannot go much further before we go to the rights of people who are affected by motor forces and other such groups. It is also amazingly valuable for society, economics, that elderly people can live very long in their own house. How about what? A senator exactly us? How does she want to change the Regulation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u97	V.E.G. President. I think it's interesting to hear what you're saying. According to members of the United States, the most important operation involved among middle - class members came to people who had nothing to do with the money. [[Take it up in some.]] The interclasses, which took the most seriously after the crash - were not meant to have done anything about them. In fact, it's in harmony with the highest level. The United States government claimed that there would be nothing more done in housing, no more in housing for a house in debt - there are reports of what I'm asking. A senator looking up if he thinks I'm turning out of his words. [[Now you're turning your back.]] That's right, which happened to me, and I can quite repeat it here and now, that the correction was not a social action. The correction was a fair operation, an economic procedure, for people, including those of the middle class, to be recognized as not those responsible for the economic breakdown. [[Up front.]] To meet young rent - rent victims, tens of thousands of dollars were treated without action for seven years. The United States government was here in power. As far as building regulations are concerned, I quote the reports and types made. It is possible to build more or less, but look to the vital design so that old people and disabled people have access to housing and can live in their homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u98	A respectable president. The thing we're talking about here is just about a roof over your head. There's something that's necessary in Iceland. This isn't the first time we've been in a shelter, but hopefully for the last time. How interesting it is to consider our previous experience in these matters! In 2002, an article entitled "Information to a Real Meaning, " was published in the journal Eggert Bernharðsson: From an idea to a reality published by the Brooklyn Art Museum, 2002. I would like to read a portion of that article, with the permission of the president, which is the title of a ◯Jani convention and a ◯ J Julia Declaration: On April 6, 1967, the Breiðholti project began. It was nearly two years ago that the government of the Independence Party and the People'Class, the ◯Renaissance Administration, issued a declaration making a thousand apartments in Reykjavík for low - paying people in 1966 to be inhabited. That's what she did in July 1965. The Council of Iceland, Iceland's Employers' Union, and the government made in June 1964. The Strategies Convention was made in the spirit of trying to create the lowest paid compensation, which could increase their share with the more paid professions. One of the most prominent teams in the ◯Jani convention was the new housing policy that would make housing easier for our families to obtain. The idea of a new social apartment system was widely welcome, and the employee's organization had emphasized housing in its seams struggle, where hundreds of families in Reykjavík still lived in an unacceptable home, especially in general, workers who had contributed to the financing of the housing system but had little money to build themselves. The city's labor unions took time to solve these people's housing problems. In addition to the one thousand apartments that were assigned to the unions in Breiðholti, it was decided to build 250 rented apartments for the city of Reykjavík. A total of 1,250 apartments were involved. The construction and oversight of the project was entrusted with a building program made up of two representatives from the labor movement, two from the housing government, and one from the city of Reykjavík. The share of the city's competent authority included To provide property for the projects of the Commission on costs free of charge, the housing administration assigned the flats to the Commission's proposal from the union's special committee. In the 1965 Declaration that the apartment should be practical and inexpensive, mass production procedures and methodologies would be used to verify whether the construction cost could be reduced by good planning and the most advanced technology available. The packaging would be located in the neighborhood so that the most practical construction projects, the construction of the apartments, and the disposal would be standardized, and the view would indicate that they would be practical and tasteful, but without unnecessary commodities. In the first phase of the Commission, six apartment buildings of the same type were to be built. Each block contained 52 apartments, either two, three, or four rooms, and they were to return their full resources to their apartments. Thus, a total of 312 apartments were on the move during the first phase. In addition, 23 apartment houses were built from an inch (1 m) to another one. The article is much longer, but the core of it was just renovating, using the same blueprints again, scraping off all unnecessary expenses that might be considered unnecessary. The plan went well that she solved the apartment parker. She got the city of Reykjavík out of the pack. She solved the workaholics'flat problems, even though afterward they may have planned to prepare an apartment mixture in the Breiðholt was not the best around the time and after. There are, therefore, some of the building blocks that we can learn from. But the idea and the construction are just as relevant today. It is relatively, in the rough calculation of as much housing problems as it is then, although not as bad as it was then, where people lived in bridges and shovels in ditches, etc. But the need for rent - rent stores even and/or buying just as much. I'd like to direct people to check this article on the URL: users.hi.is/footor/breidholt.htm. If this is made clear in a talk, a link can be placed there. As I said earlier, this is a matter that we speak about extremely important. It's really been, like, what? A messenger spoke of earlier, making a certain lack. It's just a shortage, and a market for those who can afford it. People who might have, and a lot of people who could possibly afford to collect themselves into an apartment are actually following their tails in a way that makes prices rise so much that the people who are able to collect themselves are not going to get into the down payment they otherwise needed. If I could raise 100 of you. K. in a month or something like that, it would give me four years of deposit or something, I'm just like that shooting into the air, but because an apartment price goes up so much that the time I have to collect for the apartment is as much, so I'm just splicing on the same trips, like wintertime. This market must finally be satisfied because it is expensive that no one, not even the richest, can afford to buy. Then there must be some money companies with regard to rent apartments. The rent price is high enough now so that no one on the normal wage, even the standard deviation of the average population, can afford to collect for deposit on an apartment. This makes a certain poverty trap, in effect, since renting an apartment is more than a payment of 80% and all the costs involved in maintaining the apartment. If I were to buy an apartment, say the total loan, and I'd count myself to all the real estate costs and costs of the apartment, and then, finally, what my expenses are from paying off the loan, and I'm renting my apartment to third party on that level and more, that person's going to own the apartment, he's paying the apartment for me without me having to do anything but get this original head chair, this 20%. At least I find it morally questionable that I can have someone else make my apartment for me. I wondered if there could be anything, like, something. a planned lease structure so that if rent prices go up for a certain percentage of e.g. Real estate estimates or any market evaluations have become automatic, so the tenant will automatically acquire the part of the apartment he rents when he is paying high apartment prices that he is obtaining the apartment for the owner. This suggests that the owners would actually be less in debt in their apartment and thus may reduce the rent price because they were not also paying off. This is the complicated discussion, in effect, that it would be fun to have much more time to discuss it. The point is, we need a roof over our heads, and there's a lot of apartments to build. We have to do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u99	Madam President. Thank you very much for this, and especially for reading from this pleasant publication. Of course, it was a remarkable project. The question I was going to ask. In his talk, he later answered her, about this mixture, that variety. What they did not really think about was that towns and cities are exactly more viable if there are all kinds of families and all kinds of people living there and, of course, other activities, trades, and services, apart from being a much human society. I'm just gonna ask them if it's okay. A senator doesn't agree with me on that. The other thing is it's true that there were men talking about using some kind of mass production units. It was not done to that extent. For me, as an architect, I've sometimes thought that it's our misfortune not to build bricks or other units so that we can develop such an oscillation of modivers. In any case, the production here in Iceland is 66% of what it is in Norway. It tells us that even if we do not intend to set the standard of all units - although we may be able to think it a little bit better, because even if you do, it is possible to achieve quite a variety - there is a significant advantage in thinking about the construction process from the first drawing or the first shared organization and until the building of the house. There we can achieve tremendous results that will reduce the cost of building if we make sure that not all of our efforts will be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u100	A respectable president. Yes, I agree that the mixture is very important. Although this has been true in recent decades in the British culture, of course, it has evolved and only leveled as the years go by. It could have been faster if you had been thinking about it better. Now, though, the district service elections are often started, they are thought - provoking, and they disappear where there is room for service. I don't really think it's too well taken care of, it can be done even better there. If we were to build another Grafarvog, we'd think it was a little downtown, not just the songs you drive into and watch or something like that. We've had trouble with apartments and apartment cards before. When the Western island was then, there were a number of missing people, more than 5 of them. I am reminded of a man who had to flee to shore. They were then built in the quickest neighborhoods here and there, the Aegean project in the Village, e.g., people arranged things by moving in and allowing people to stay inside while living in apartments. That problem was solved. I don't see that this is a problem that we can't solve. We can solve it simply by spiting at our palms and building. It's as simple as that. The other comes in some way from what we should have experienced in the decades that have passed since the surface was built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u101	Madam President. It is true that we need to build, but we need to be careful that this is a long-term investment and we need to build in a sustainable way, not just that the houses are it, but that the neighborhood and the settlement are sustainable. While building and contaminating may be more difficult, we must, at least in part, do so, even if we study new lands as well. We can also meet the cost of building, such as at the end of the day. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir and former minister have often pointed out, we can build less housing. The average Meðal-Finni lives in 34 square meters while the Icelander lives in 64, showing that we can succeed there. Above all, it is us who live in far too large houses that are supposed to be reduced. I think we've reached certain boundaries in a very large number of families that don't have money, they're probably living very narrow. Just in the end because of what. A senator spoke of how it works to buy and rent. I don't know if he's studied our ideas before the election for the advantage of a real estate market where men could afford the five years in advance to cross that threshold. I know there are many flaws to that idea, but it was the only way to deal with the emergency problem, for it sucks to see people who might pay a dozen times more rent than they would be if they could just help them across the threshold and into their own housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u102	A respectable president. I studied this precipitous approach to jump over the threshold, but it is a fault bound like many other solutions that it is temporary; it will correct those who need this now, but perhaps it will become even more trouble for those who come after because of being blown up, as the correction has, for example. I guess I did some of it. I now live in 25 square feet with my family, or 100 divided by four, as far as I know, there may be houses in the country that have any worst use, I guess, I'm afraid to do it, but that's what I've heard from third parties. Otherwise, I completely agree with it. A senator tells of the construction of neighborhoods and communities. We must always think that we are a community of people, and we live in harmony with our neighbors and meet at the schools with our kids, and so on. This is a difficult task, but we should have a very good experience, in accordance with our present circumstances, so that we can resolve it in a way that we do not overdo it. It's missing a lot of apartments anyway, so even if we were to spit a little in our hands, we wouldn't be shooting over the target before we realized we were heading in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-23-47.u103	A respectable president. I thank the Group of Congress for bringing in this case on the construction of the tenet. I would like to support the development of 1,000 cabib sprays per year starting in 2018 and at least for the next three years. It is good that the government has decided to double the contribution it makes to the construction of public apartments this year. I found it myself, when I was in the welfare department and did the housing business, that in 2016, when we were assigned for the first time through the public apartment system, it certainly had to be added. The cost had increased from what we had planned, but in spite of this, we were able to provide funds for the projects that met the requirements set out in the Law. In my day as the minister of housing, I put emphasis on diversity, that we should be able to offer a wide variety of shapes for housing. On the other hand, I would very much notice during the discussion that when I spoke for certain suggestions that turned to one business plan, it was as if a decision had been made that I would be speaking down another business plan. I think it is very important to reiterate it that although I feel that it is right for us to expand general apartments and raise financial resources for that system, we are not to be concerned about other households. This has been a significant point of reference to the old workers'farm system. I think it was a similar step if it wasn't more than a phase of a collective agreement in 2015, where the government issued a declaration to meet the demands of the labor movement and to help develop collective agreements by building up the general workforce, where the general labour market staff would have a chance to get safe housing at a favorable price. What was very important to me in the statement that there was a set reference to the cost of living. If I can review this statement, it says here, by permission of the president, under the title "Preparation of costable and less expensive apartments." It will be provided as a basis for a new social spray system, which will focus on increasing the number of cost and costed apartments to ensure long - term low income housing for families. The social rent system will be financed by the founding of the state and rural society and by the government's direct wax pay, which is now worth about 30% of the cost of stocks. In general, such contributions by state and rural society should lead to renting a person with low incomes that do not exceed a higher proportion of each income. Legislators who intend to build and operate social housing may include communities and non-profit communities or non-profit organisations having the long-term goal of building, own and oversee the management of a rented house reserved for owners under certain income and property boundaries. It will be limited -- there was an experience in previous systems and conflicts that had previously been attacked in the construction of social renters - ◯ For the fact that the provision of goods can be taken out of the social rent system, but if authorised, it will be set up. And it goes: There will be an effort on the construction of social renters. The goal is to build 2,300 apartments over the next four years, i.e. of 2016-2019, though, a maximum of 600 apartments a year. The need for continued development of social housing, including taking into account the state of government funds. A moderate-sized apartment will be emphasised and a social blend will be ensured in the rented apartment. An apartment's income will be determined to be in the lowest two-fifties when they move into the facility. Thus, small income families, which so far have not had access to apartments in the local community's social systems, will be granted access to cheap and secure rented housing. The change in the current priorities of the rural society towards the clients of social services or priorities for students living in camps is not expected, but in further setting housing for those in the labour market, children's families and households in serious financial problems will be considered separately. There will be rules for the total number of households or social apartments to be divided between different target groups and developers. This last law has been repeated in a recent government declaration that half of the 2,300 apartments who have promised to travel to the labor movement and save an apartment organization, a company established by ASI and BSRB will apply for capital, stock contributions, from state and rural communities that correspond to half of the capital. So there was an enormous step. The model for this is the old labor base system and the June/July meeting, as has been discussed, on which it was built. The difference, however, is what people have often asked about, that in the old system it was told people that they had an apartment, but here we are talking about rent houses. In other words, efforts are being made to prevent the eventually decomposition of the workers'farms, i.e. people are not being told that they have something they really cannot possess. Since the loan system in the old labor base system was such that payment was low and payments were low, the formation of property was virtually zero. As a result, even though credit papers were thus signed, people were renting. In the general apartment system approved by the General Assembly less than a year ago, the last of us was built on this basis that tenants under these income limits can continue to live there, although their income increases; this will reflect a change in rent to continue looking at that threshold. A significant discussion has been made about changes in the housing improvement system. So I would like to use this opportunity to mention that the changes that were being made there were just the intention of meeting people at work. This thought was that it should not matter where a person's income comes from, that the government's support should be comparable. The changes in the quality of our housing system were of great importance in achieving this 203/425% income threshold when housing support was taken into account. There have been other discussions, especially when we start talking about the stock market itself. Of course, it is very important that people have room by paying low rent to save. On the other hand, I would also like to emphasize what is evident in the second part of the resolution, with the support of young people and the first buyers, but the thought of the law that we agreed to, about the use of special savings to pay for an apartment, was that as soon as a person enters the labour market, he could put aside. We start paying a pension fund when we're 16, if we start winning. As a result, we too can immediately begin to put aside our special savings. There's a huge difference between saving when you're this young, living at home, not having expenses, starting with children, e.g. setting aside at once 16 years of age, even from the time a baby is born. When school is completed, perhaps between 25 and 26 years of age, people themselves may have been set aside for 10 years - and even for 25◯26 years if parents start laying aside at the time of a child's birth. All these systems look far ahead to the future. As noted in the case of a 1st transporterr, w. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, it's important that we think in the long run. Real estates live a long time. This is the most remarkable commitment that each individual, or family, takes on, i.e. to make a home. It is also a commitment to become tenant and to start your own home. Therefore, when we think about proposals and proposals, it is so important that we think in the long run. I have sometimes said: " What the situation is now does not necessarily tell me what it will be like in five years. Hence, such factors as planning, which we have not done well enough, are very important. It is very important that we give this system and this system changes the opportunity to achieve what we imagined could be; that we are looking not just one year into the future but decades. Hopefully even hundreds of years, as we have seen in our neighboring countries, about a similar system.
