ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 193, on a projection projection projector, from Eygló Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u2	President. Today at the council, I would like to have a word for word. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson, president of the day. The management board, his attitude and comments regarding the so-called Guðmunds and Geir fiss. In an article where there is no light. In 2011, a senator wrote under the heading 'Counsel of Justice's Rights, by permission of a president: No new evidence has been made to change the evidence. So it is of no significance that the renovation of the situation is repeated, and the Minister of state cannot determine it as the same law. It is even less significant to appoint a committee to determine whether the defendant has been falsely convicted. In the second article of that year, the senator, with the permission of a president, wrote: ▪ On the other hand, there is all talk of judicious murder, misjudgment, forced police force to get confessions in the Guðmunds and the Geir fissity of the case, no other than insurrections that cannot be supported in the evidence. In view of the vast amount of data that have been reported in this issue since then. This comment was made by a senator of prolonged torture and ill - treatment of the defendants, as well as the repeated violations of their judicial rights, I would like to ask. A senator knows if he likes his comments. And if so, I'd like to ask why. A senator's stand against words as a member of his team. In 1997, Davíð Oddsson's spokesman for the General Assembly, after the Supreme Court rejected Sævar Ciesielskir call for recovery, which he said, by permission of the President: ▪ I say for myself that I was greatly disappointed that the Supreme Court could not see itself without the legal conditions to take back the Gestapo case. For my part, I've studied this case thoroughly throughout the years, thinking that people there have been Massing on a grand scale at almost every level of the case. [...] Not only was there one judgment murder done on all this journey, it was many of the condemnations that took place on this journey all along, and it is very difficult for us to live with it. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he agree with these words of former chairman of the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]] And if so, why not? To a senator his word is well advanced, and Davíð's Oddsson Oddd's words are not so old: what evidence would he have for this attitude in the light of all of the above?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u3	V.E.G. President. You can't expect me to answer all this in two minutes. That would have been good for what. A senator may read them all the things I had written about this subject in my day. My big article called the Guðmunds and the Geir fiscal case sums up the evidence in the case. Of course, the subject of this article is that the discussion in society was very confusing, the discussion that no evidence was any other than the testimony of the defendants themselves. It was debated that these confessions had been obtained by long - standing custody for years. It was all wrong, and I was just trying to set things straight. Then I wrote another article on the request to repeat myself, as a matter of course. Clearly, a senator has not read or did not know about the legal conditions for it. They're on legal issues, they age very well. I have to say, I just think they're great. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think those who have learned human rights law in the Netherlands should read all of these articles because they are very good teachers on legal matters in this regard. I have never claimed, however, that these judgments in the Guðmund and Geirriður case were proved beyond doubt. I've never said it, but I didn't know it, but I've criticized a lot of other cases I've been in and I know all the data. In this case, I'm simply saying that those who judged it judged according to the current law, had such proof, and were not above criticism, certainly not, especially when the bodies are not even found. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the lawyer to read all these articles, and I think she can learn a lot from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u4	Madam President. In the council's work, it is only today that we are on the agenda for a store of alcohol and tobacco, after this team's work is completed, and then there is a third case on the board, a reduction in pay according to salary development since 2013. Pirata's members arranged it for it to be the priorities of the council. We'll talk about it later if we get to that after all the drinking talk. If there was a program proposal now, it would not be a vote until the end of the meeting or at the beginning of the next meeting. I am told that there would be no discussion until the end of a discussion about alcohol shopping, which is another way for members of Congress to influence the program. I hope it is the will of the United States of Congress to take the matter of advice on the program today as a third part of the program. What are we facing? I'm not bored with saying that in this council hall and reminding the council members that 70% of the agreements could upset us tonight. The Matrix has had plenty of time; we had a program for the weekend, on Thursday, which was arranged. That's 100 gerbil contracts. If they get upset, the rain will begin. 100 collective contracts. Then it's a little hard for the Senate to say: We're going to lay down a law on your strikes when you're asking for the same amount of pay that we received at the council and the rest of the country, but we weren't ready to make a law to correct, so we're following the general pay program made by the council. That's what Pirata's Senate case is about, that the government's pay is in line with national pay development. The law says it should be that way, the law that all members of Congress agreed on on Christmas. A council went by, the court's way is too slow, it's at the General. Those who read an article in the business magazine from the executives of the Association of Business, which I sent to all members of Congress for a weekend, should be aware of the situation and the responsibility. It says, by permission of the president: It is possible to correct this nonsense at the General Assembly, where it is possible to ensure that the workforce is not resolved. [[The president calls.]] This is a message for us. I hope we can start talking about chicken advice right now and maybe just finish it. If it were willing, it would be possible, I doubt it, but it could be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u5	A respectable president. Let me begin by saying that the prime minister has not yet answered questions about moral violations. But that's not the subject I'm going to discuss today. It's the teacher. According to Iceland's Habitat in 2011, some 4,500 teachers were teaching rights in basic schools of the country. At the same time, over 9,000 had rights as secondary teachers. Today, the number of graduates is fewer. In addition, a number of teachers go to other jobs, mainly after their first year of service, which is a lost opportunity. To be able to serve as a teacher, you need the right to serve as a teacher. Now that the date has come for a number of exceptions in 2011-2012, 56 of them have been approved, they have reached 270. Almost five times in six years. According to the New Year's Review Report, it is not enough to increase the number of teachers, and it must also be restored to the schools already educated. Otherwise, as the results of Helgi Eiríkur Eyjólfsson's Masters' son and Professor Stefán Hrafn Jónsson of the University of Iceland, will be severe at the time of the loss of their teachers, almost 7,000 teachers compared with some 9,000 today. More people are growing, and more is needed for teachers. That would require 70% of all teachers to be active as such in order to be a man of all positions. Today, it's less than half. In 2031 the future is not far off. It takes five years to graduate today. The problem must be solved during this terms. That was a lot of numbers. While they are important, good education is even more important. Without a trained teacher, we do not have an education system, whether in public business or personal business. No matter where people come from in the politics, we must agree on them. Good education needs a teacher. Students need teachers. Respect for a good teacher will not be measured in money. What a good teacher leaves behind is priceless.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u6	V.E.G. President. Now it's got the highest. The government has decided to set up an action group to implement a consistent housing action that is effective. As many are aware, the last government, led by the advance party, took extensive action in housing, and at that job included the same. a great deal of discussions about special housing and housing for students, aged 15◯17, who live in dormitories or in approved school parks. Following that work was a transnational reconciliation from now on. The General Assembly for this, among all members of the committee at noonday. The welfare committee, that from the end of the New Year's Eve, all societies would be obliged to provide this support. Guidelines were set up on this support: that rural communities should provide special housing support in accordance with local regulations and that rural communities should provide parents or guardians of 15 to 117 years of age who rent a room in a dormitory or park because of learning away from a lawhouse, housing support. This support should be independent of the income and property of parents or guardians, and not more than 75% of the rent expenses. In addition, the heavy forwarding burden of individuals who apply for special housing support and who look to social conditions must be assessed. The aims of these laws, for the general housing support, and for these rules in which I quote them, were that no one would get any worse out of the new system than the old one. On the other hand, we, many of us, who, what. Councilmen, have received information that the number of individuals does not receive this special housing support. I've already called for a meeting at night. The World Health Committee of the United Nations to discuss these matters requested that members of the European Union, New York City, and the Ministry of Health meet with the Committee. I also challenge the highest. Department of Ministers to put these issues into practice in housing procedures these days. It is particularly important to see if the only way that this special housing support works is even legalizing it. To this end, 800 million were left with their rural communities so that they could care for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u7	A respectable president. At the General Assembly, 63 members serve. Our main mission is to provide Congress protocols and legislators. That work takes thousands of hours each year. V.E.G. President. It has taken the senator here for several years to find out how unchanging and unpredictable this work is often and often. We can do much better. An example of incorruption is that here we often handle matters that have not been costed. Congress cases include e.g. Not at all costs, and so are the changes made by the Allied Committees. As a result, we will take care of a case that will be followed by days, even in the plot at the company's headquarters, where they will not feel that they have money to carry it out. An example of such an assignment is a conquistador proposal that I made, and the Council approved last year. The proposal was published by a health minister to review the State's payment rules for assisted reproduction techniques by the end of 2016. A well - paying board arranged the matter so that the following items would be taken into account: The payment of health insurance will include first in vitro replacement therapy and the payment of health insurance parties regardless of whether couples or individuals have a child. Thus, on September 8 of our last year, the General took care of the situation. Now we're falling into the third month of 2017. According to my sources, nothing has happened in the ART case since its approval in September. I'm sorry because I know that a lot of people rely on the rules to be changed. We must adapt our work at the General Assembly so that every case we agree to has real meaning and is not just empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u8	Madam President. We had a difficult meeting here at the council last night. Finally, changes in the complex law code on social security were approved. 116/2016. Various doubts and doubts puzzled the mind and the mind, but finally, the conclusion became the one reflected in one's own convictions and principles and appeared in the opinion of a 1st minor health committee. paritaprevir Pirata Halldorra Mogensen was on the stand. What was largely determined was that in such serious doubt, we would be obliged to take a position with the public, who is our clients, rather than the state power and authority of this case. A review of this event, this text error, lasted briefly, the nature of the language. The conversation on a welfare committee was progressive, honest, and solution. The committee got professionals and stakeholders to meet in a hurry, and there was an exchange of opinions and information by prisoners. The conclusion of Part 1 is that the examples and risks of feedback are so dangerous and can create insecurity and uncertainty about the legal structure and the implementation of the general procedure, that the country has a high demand for careful work practices, and that it can be relied on the Law text as it should be seen at one time or another. The need for adjustment in the preparation and operation of the law has been considered. Now's a song and a need. The most important thing is that we do not stop the words empty, that we improve the process by special measures so that the laws of the land will be undeniably legible, accessible, and understandable both learning and games. The question remains: What will the council do to avoid such an event?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u9	Madam President. The high pay factor of patients is an ugly spot on the health system, and statistics show that people with poor economic conditions are less likely to seek medical care, not to mention the injury they experience when they are diagnosed with a severe illness, will suffer loss of income and/or mental trauma. The General approved June 2nd. a change in health insurance laws that stipulated basic changes in the patient's resources for health care. The law should have come to a date on February 1. Then the government decided to postpone the introduction of a new health - care system for May 1 and decided that it would require more time to prepare the system change, primarily because of some technical problems with its implementation. The provisional regulations on the law state that the Index is based on health insurance payment for services in the last five months before validation. Accordingly, from September 1, 2016, the patient's payment period would be reviewed. So I wondered, " Is it not right to look back to this time goal, despite the delay of this development? ' Nevertheless, on September 1, but not just five months before the system's time point, which would be December 1, 2016. Madam President. It is important that the difficulty in implementing a new system of payment does not impair the rights and expectations of patients who are legally based and above the head always need to consider the impact that the continuation of implementation can have on people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to make two things a subject today, one of the recent reports on the cost and effectiveness of training in the country. A great lack of teachers is predictable in the country. The story was not that surprising, and I have often discussed it, especially in the leading of government development. With the permission of the President, I would like to quote the government's administration covenant, which says that a teacher's education will be strengthened to respond to a decrease in teacher size and a decrease in attendance at teachers. It also says that all degrees will be raised. So I direct my words to the highest. A minister of education, reminding him that we now need an emergency call with efficiency. That's what we're ready for. Last night, Jóhanna Einarsdóttir, director of the school of education at the University of Iceland, said that this was a social problem that needs to be addressed. We who have been at the nursery class have long expressed considerable concern that just one third of our preschool teacher is educated as such, even though the law says that there is a minimum of two thirds of status as a nursery teacher. I myself worked for many years in a nursery, with 11 points in three degrees. Among them were two school managers, who said that only one active teacher on the floor was to care for their children's education and training. Since this is a social problem, and I believe it is very important to ensure the place and respect of the teacher's work, this is the responsibility of all of us, especially those responsible for the school system at all levels and in all schools. The second story that stabbed me was that the Hall policy is starting with a laundry service. To me, it is a mistake to increase the respect of society for educational institutions and the precious teachers working there. The fact that an institution responsible for education and training should assume that domestic chores are not the way of me to improve respect for education or teaching work, but the school may have more customers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to use the time assigned to me here for a little self - criticism, as one of the 63 members of the General Assembly, and even asking the rest of you to come with me even into self - criticism. It was reported this week that trust in the Generals was not particularly high, but it had increased by 5 percent, and it has now reached 22%, according to Gallup's assessment. There is no question about looking - or you just turn the pages and see that trust in the Allegorium collapsed in the collapse. Since then, it has not carried its own bars. Low trust in the government and the Generals may become a serious threat to the democracy that all of us should take seriously. Following the collapse, a certain umbilical examination was carried out in this hall and at the high General Assembly. Various proposals for improvement and improvement and changes in the work and procedure of the council and for the administration were adopted, more often than with all legal requirements, 63:0. So I direct the President and to the council and to us to gather the approved ones that the Senate itself has made of the improvements it considered necessary, and we are wondering if they have been fulfilled, whether or not something is needed, and if there is any need to take action to carry out the desires of the Council so clearly expressed. We do well to examine ourselves. We should not be afraid to do so and see the cause, why trust in us and our work here is no more than we can see. It would be a good thing for the democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you about the audience at the Assembly Hall. I came to these platforms regularly as a civilian, and I can tell you that there is hardly a worse place in the country to monitor the General's speeches and contracts than its platforms. Sometimes you would go down to town to observe a matter that interested you, but then you would come up on a platform, sit on almost nothing, and no phone, not knowing which language is next, or how many people are going to talk, give up, go home, and watch it on TV. I think that since we've decided to allow ourselves to have electronic devices in the hall to look up the primarys, or whatever it is we do with these devices, we might consider those citizens who come here to watch some stuff could also take their smart devices with them, so long as the equipment would be quiet and people wouldn't take pictures or such. If allied respect can bear the fact that the members of the council do it on their phones, it can also bear the fact that visitors do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u13	Madam President. The report published by the State Accounting Board and on Teacher cards should not surprise us. Since 2009 the number of students who have attended the seminary has fallen, and it is clear that to keep educated teachers in the field, the number of graduates has not been able to graduate enough. It also plays many parts, and it is clear that we need to act now. It is not acceptable that we have about 10,000 educated teachers, but only half of them choose to serve as teachers despite the fact that most of them have gone through three years of study. Of nearly 3,000 preschoolers who have received permission from 1999, about 1700 are working. Clearly, the length of the study is not the only reason but also the one that I plan to follow along with many other factors that we have to investigate. We need to attract people in some way to study and work, e.g. With inference through the student loan system, with reinforcements like in the North countries, but more still, we need to keep our minds on the ideals and equipment of teachers. Much stress has marked the teaching work at all levels, and the support system around children and young people is not to be expected. It is important that both countries and rural communities have a better place together for the better of society. We also know that good economic conditions have an impact, for teachers are sought after, and if you get better paid in the general labour market and pressure in the classroom and in school, there is nothing odd about teachers choosing them rather than teaching them, even if they burn for the job. I have requested a special discussion with the Minister of Education on these matters, this available teacher card, because, as noted earlier, the work of teachers is not possible in the future, as it were. I sure hope that's the best. Minister will have some answers on the rhythms of what he intends to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u14	A respectable president. There is an unacceptable situation in housing in the capital area. The offer of housing should not be made by others, and the result is a large increase in housing prices. Young people are having more difficulty moving away from home and getting a roof over their heads. Necessary, burdensome regulations and high taxes have made it difficult, if not impossible, to meet the needs of young people who want cheap housing. It is not the role of politicians to build apartments for these people, however, it is their job to create an environment in which those who want to have a realistic means of having their own home and where an effective tenet can survive. This is where politicians have failed. The problem we face lies in a lack of apartments. It needs apartments, especially small and inexpensive. So our mission is to look for ways to increase supply, divide weights, simplify regulations, and reduce taxes so that the farmers can build stores at a more favorable price. Take, for example, the city of Reykjavík. It is estimated that in the city, there are now about 4,000 apartments, and 1,000 apartments have to come into the market in the years to cope with the demand for population growth and one of these cumulative problems. The distribution of property for building is by no means another demand that makes apartments, whether for sale or rent, simply too expensive. The government will have to deal with this situation by creating a large build-up of property and economic conditions, e.g. by reducing the paying and the taxes and the simplifying of the rule, so that the inhabitants can see the benefit of building an environment. It is a home - to - house problem for politicians to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u15	Madam President. I would like to use this opportunity at the end of the council and discuss the activities of the council. I'd like to say something. paritaprevir It's a Steinunn, Árnadóttir. It was last night's year's daughter. Right away. A senator's opinion was that a secondary part of the social welfare committee was made aware of the correction of the social security laws, which included many people. Councilmen have recently mentioned, i.e. To work on changing lyrics. There's been a few discussions about the format of a law text when it's being done with the law, and more than a vote for a change is not the most convenient thing for us to do. It's in my mind to prepare a situation for us members of the Parliament to be careful to minimize the risk of errors. I'd like to ask: Is there something complicated or even unpleasant, negative, simply changing the situation so that we can just get the text for the change, get the text, and then get the text changed? If it isn't, can't we just do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u16	President. I'd like to initially say thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for pointing out how difficult it is to observe discussions at the council above. Of course, that's not good enough, and I agree that people's access needs to be improved to monitor the discussions so that they can see from the conferences what's on the program, how the seminars are, and so on. But I made a note of today's reporting on service to refugees and the analysis of the status of refugees in Iceland in 2016. The results of a survey carried out on the situation of refugees and refugees in Iceland have been very limited, because so few refugees wanted to participate. The response rate was only 15%. It is reported that questions met suspicion and even fear among refugees who seemed to fear for their positions if they would answer questions. This needs to be considered. At the same time, the European Commission's new report on racial prejudice and intolerance shows that there has been an increase in the reputation of racial prejudice in Iceland. I think that of these two, it is quite clear that it is important that we improve the status of refugees in Iceland and achieve a better partnership, with these issues being held by many departments. That is why I look forward to studying this report in even more detail and especially the section in which it is suggested that the National Institutes for Foreign Affairs be put down in the present form than the new establishment of foreigners and immigrants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u17	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a law on drinking and tobacco trade. This isn't the first time this case has happened here, but I really hope it's the last one, that it doesn't have to be the eternal fight of the independence people here at the council and the rest of the people who choose to follow it. I have just returned from an election week like other members of Congress, and it is worthy of note that whether we met schoolmasters or health professionals both east and north, they all stressed that this case would not go through. I also belong to a group of children's spokesmen, and we've been meeting with the youth councils of its members, i.e. Unicef, the Children's Special Agent and the Children's Communion. The young people we have spoken to are urging that they will not be accepted. It may be a little tighter, and I don't talk about when 75% of the nation, according to last polls, is out of favor with this case. Also, the support seems to be lacking in the order of independents according to the same study. Then you begin to wonder if there is anything other than the apparent motivation for the store in which it exists. It is certainly of interest to allow ourselves to ignore all the professional comments that have been made regarding health and other consequences. This morning it was also Norway's health minister, Høie Høie, who is concerned about how it can affect liquor sales in Norway if the Allied Council decides to authorize sales in grocery stores. Because at the same time as lndependence first and last, along with some members of Finland, wants more freedom in these matters, other European countries are trying to reduce. Why would that be? Because greater freedom or bioavailability has resulted in more severe drinking problems. This was revealed in Aphtenposten, and is quoted by the minister, i.e. Norwegian Health Minister. Finds wondering if you can sell drinking products containing alcohol from 5.5%. That's when you're talking about soft alcohol. But we have a bill that allows all alcohol at the grocery store. I think we're taking steps backwards, we're taking steps in the direction more than fewer are trying to disappear. I sure hope this doesn't come true. I'm glad that the Norwegian Health Minister is going to discuss these matters with his colleagues in the Northern States at the Ministerial Conference in May. Then I hope it won't be too late, I hope the Icelanders don't already agree with it. As the situation is right now, I hope it doesn't work out. The issue has not been presented for this time, but it has been observed that there has been no change in people's views since last year, i.e. The professions and others that have discussed the matter. And I hope this isn't the only case that will be discussed in the General and Education Committee. There's been a lot of room for committee work. I'm more important than the fact that there are other good matters that will be discussed and that will lead to success. Also, I have not been able to understand why we really want to change an arrangement that has been so good for us, whether we speak in public or otherwise, we have been fine. The right men have often talked about that we left men are prejudiced; I think it's part of premeditation to want to stuff it against the will of more of the part of the busy surveys, i.e. When more people of the country don't want it. [[This is in stores, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u18	InTVR is a trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u19	[[Take it up for, just go to the speaker's file.]] Honorable President, I'm assuming I have become. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u20	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting the fact that a chairman of the platform has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u21	It is also interesting that the senator in this gas truck was, of course, the first messenger of the matter last. I don't know if he hasn't trusted himself to be the first apostle again and to take all the laundry he had last received. At any rate, they seem to exchange, the youth of the Independence Party, to take over the matter. When you wonder why this matter is being made over and over in spite of all these observations, it is not unusual for you to consider the challenges involved. Much of the common consumers, and this is now the government of consumers, that which I have understood is not by this, and it goes against the policy of the authorities in the use of drugs, which lies until 2020. It speaks of a limit to bioavailability, and it says, by permission of the president: ▪ The only most important action to reduce harmful effects and problems with alcohol and other drug abuse is to limit bioavailability. I expect health ministers and other government ministers to oppose this practice if they intend to follow approved public health policies. Unless they choose to submit a new one. In reviews to the bill, the surgeon general's office said about this: ▪ On the basis of the best available data, as well as a review of the results of studies and advice The World Health Organization on Alcohol Action is limited for alcohol to be one of the most effective ways to cope with alcohol abuse and thereby reduce the damage caused by alcohol. It should be up to you to wonder. According to one authority in the case, the scientific research is not very significant. So it may not matter what they say if they object. That's a worry. It is disturbing if science has nothing to say when it comes to saying that. It is also worth asking, " Why do the candidates not claim to pay for all this freedom and for the greater cost to the community? ' Personalisation of alcohol systems is discussed in an article by Robin Room, one of the authors of the book Alcohol is not an ordinary consumer product, in the journal Contemporary Dr. Problems. There, Room explains a more efficient way to reduce alcohol consumption and harm. It's kind of no matter where you're going, the people who've been doing this for decades, all of them come to the same conclusion. I'm asking, what is freedom? In the end, what is our freedom if it is in the form of burdensome diseases, burdensome pressures on our entire infrastructure? I've listened to senators who are in favor of freedom. I have to say, I don't agree with them. If you put the public health issues aside, which I feel are the strongest - I come from a small community and people make little of it, that young people are mostly doing this, so you can't say you don't know what you're talking about. I live in a place where alcohol stores are 15 minutes away on both sides, not in my hometown, where young people enjoy working in the shops. Usually, there is one adult on duty, but it is difficult in this, like so many other things, to resist peer pressure, it should not be underestimated. We have done well with tobacco sales, but there is no doubt about it. There have been informal observations, unfortunately. There's potholes, too. Not only are these young people selling but others are. I also have doubts about being expelled from the store with a view to profiting. In itself, ATVR is not being run by means of the programme primarily to benefit. It is, of course, a profit, but it is not the main concern of the store. In this context, it is actually deactivated if we are going to take it out to the general grocery store. Let us not overlook the fact that we have a major market manager at a grocery store that has already ensured a great number of blacks for sale, so to speak. These people come to control the markets. Where are they? They are first and last here in the capital area and then with a single store in the country. What does that mean? The little party buys from them because he has nothing to do with this competition. Madam President. I feel like there's a lot of sides on this thing. But I think that this is the first and last time you've been doing the business business, where the big parties come in to do the job. We should show respect for this, though legal, is a problem that is too many negative traits that have appeared to us. We need to deal with the consequences of society and family life, children who have no control over the circumstances they face, who have to cope with it. It is also our responsibility to weigh it. It would be interesting to know if the spokesmen of this bill have shown whether and if so, how might this affect young people and children? I think it's such a big deal that I think it matters. Of course, we should examine all issues regarding how children are affected, but especially in this case. This is a complete time error. Once again, this bill is being proposed when there are so many other major community issues that we should be discussing here. A lot of other people. A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I don't think the people who are making this move are guided, not by the overall interests, but by special interests, and by the first and last, by the store.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u22	V.E.G. President. I have to say, I understand very well any kind of public health policy. But now we've been facing it from the moment the beer arrived in 1989, and I was getting 30 when I got beer, access has increased tremendously, not just in the ATVR shops. Almost a new vineyard permit to a private worker every day. Has anyone ever checked to see if the nation's public health has deteriorated after the beer arrived? Does anyone know? The only numbers I see are that the average age of the nation is always rising. What exactly do we have in our mind that there is an increased bioavailability, except that humans refer to some research in foreign lands that opposes increased bioavailability? I ask them: If these public health issues are so important and the growth of sales places becomes so harmful, why don't we just suggest that we tape back because it's such a big deal, we take all this increase, which is just hundreds or thousands of percent? Why doesn't the senator suggest that we just go back, have these three old stores over the table? Limit the bioavailability properly. Does the senator, then, believe that the people's health is being saved?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u23	Madam President. Since we talk about the issue of issues, it is a matter of question to say that we have to go back to the past because this matter is so great and it doesn't have to be a problem, and then it's better if we go back to the past completely, and we just close to everything and everything. We know that. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son that if we were taking alcohol here for the first time, we wouldn't allow it, because we know what we know today. It's just that kind of thing. We can look to that, too. It is very likely that we would react that way. But, of course, it isn't, and there may be reason to examine it and it should have been investigated before such a bill was presented: Has the use of beer had some worse effect? Why haven't we had it checked out? Why didn't the proponents have it checked out? It would be respectable to have this done, much rather than put in here a tired bill on a case that has been often passed through the council, into a committee but will not go beyond the fact that it is in the commission because of the reports. Why? We can't afford to ignore it, that's just not possible. To argue that there are some studies in foreign lands that are not based - what the hell is this song? Is it now being said that science, from where it comes, is not significant because it comes from abroad and that doesn't apply to me and Icelanders? It's not an acceptable presentation, it's a respectable president. This is quite clear and has been suggested for the reasons that are relevant at home, such as elsewhere: Increase availability by private sale, not by personal ATVR sales, but by letting it into other stores elsewhere, increase consumption. I quoted Norway's health minister who is concerned about this. Why? Is he bullshitting? This is the experience in other parts of the world. We're supposed to look at her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u24	V.E.G. President. If someone says something abroad, it does not automatically become a truth. I'm just saying the facts speak for themselves. Young people today drink less alcohol despite the growing sales markets. If younger people drink less, they may drink less of their lives. So evolution is in the right direction, isn't it? No matter what surveys say in foreign lands. [[Up front.]] No, I'm just saying that with the logic as reason. A senator claims, i.e. that there is a danger of going to hell, the prophecies of doom forever, is, of course, the right to turn back. It must be. I'm not asking for milk in the milk shop again, I'm just asking for this. Let's just go back. This must have the same effect, since alcohol consumption must have increased with all these new liquor stores. With the same logic, we just back-up. At least. Or maybe we should just forbid it. It's just that way. It's as simple as that. And that the private sale needs to be on the hands of the government? Who invented it? If we can sell medicine to private sources, we can sell alcohol there. It's just a strange state custody of death, and it's not surprising when it comes from this category. It's just that way, and let's just accept it. There's no reason, of course, for this, but I totally understand that people are worried about it. And I understand that people don't want it. I've told you before that I love this company, ATVR. That's not the point. It's just this logic thing that doesn't make sense. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u25	A respectable president. I don't know which logic works, me or what. Senator. The facts he is referring to at one time are thought - provoking. As I said in my talk earlier, we have a fine arrangement. A large percentage of the people in the country agree. Hv. A senator said that young people drink less despite increased bioavailability. Why would that be? Because bioavailability is controlled. It would be different if it went out to the merchant at the corner, if it went out at the grocery store. I've traced it here for what it is. I agree with the World Health Organization, the National Institute of Geologists, the school champions, all the parenting and educational institutions, and those we've been given reviews about the bill. Although research is being done in foreign lands, it does not necessarily mean that it is correct and true, but it is not just one study and not just two that come to this conclusion, and it knows why. Senator. Therefore, I feel that members of the council who speak for this matter have come to an end in this regard. I think senators should rather concentrate on taking what is said here seriously. Maybe we should have certain things checked out before such a bill is presented. That might make more sense. But what's underneath here, and we know it completely, is that what a capital team speaks for is freedom. Freedom of who? The freedom of merchants. The individual's freedom is not in this context. Who's calling for this? Who are they? Senators who actually call for this? According to one survey, it is not independence. It's not 75% of the people, they say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u26	To consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u27	They're consumers, I guess. Part of independence doesn't want it, it's consumers. 75% of the nation saying no are consumers. All these are consumers. Who's calling for this? It's the store that calls for this, huh? Senators, and you're supposed to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u28	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator heard it, but I joined her in one place in her speech. I said, "Hear, hear." It was in that place that she said she was hoping this was the last time we discussed this matter in the Senate Hall. That is what I can wholeheartedly agree with her. But I have the only solution to the matter, which I'm not sure is the answer to. A senator desires, which is simply that this case would give the democratic conclusion that would be discussed for a trial, as we have been trying to do for over a decade, to reach a final vote. Then they would see the position of the national representative. Is it not true that the senator would agree with me that this would be a reasonable conclusion? And if that conclusion leads to the fact that there is no greater part of this matter in the Hall of Congress, we can imagine that the matter is over for a certain time. If the conclusion is the other way, we'll just get it out. Can the senator not agree with me that this could be a success? The other thing I'd like to know. A senator: She mentioned a meeting she had in her role as a spokesman for children, a meeting that I also attended. It's a little hard to quote a meeting you've been about that there's something different about them. At any rate, I could not feel that the youth council at that meeting has specifically described their opposition to this bill, although the members of the press have done so and have also declared that view in the media. I'm wondering if the senator had any other meeting than the one I went to. Finally, because they always mention polls, the youngest age group, when it is checked, has support for the mildest version of this bill, i.e. Selling wine and beer at the grocery store. I wondered, because since there is a support for the bill, young people 18◯24 years of age may also support it: Does a senator claim to be a spokesman for children's well - being, while their opinions are not as important to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. There's a few things here. Democratic matter, that it should be accomplished. The case has gone to committees, as I said before, and had extensive coverage. That's as far as it's been. Why? Because, eventually, this has not been a case that the classes have stressed, i.e. The independent party, then, primarily. I also wondered, " Why doesn't the government put this up? ' Why does the prime minister not present this matter on behalf of the government? Why is this a matter of Congress year after year? If this is a real case that the Independence Party wants to penetrate with a great weight, it will probably pass through and its restoration will only support it. I suppose so. It'd be better. If so, they would have an upcoming priority in payment, e.g. at the end of the council, and other such factors. I got it. I got it. A senator to consider that. I'm a spokesman for children. Of course, I was during the last term. I'm not hearing about this for the first time. I've had quite a deal with the young people around them. This was not the only meeting, and I'm not quoting him specifically, the one we were. A senator was last to sit. Nor is it possible to quote a study or a survey or such, since only wine and beer are spoken of when there is an underlying bill that is everything else. Let's just ask these young people if they want it this way. Does that agree? How much of a young person's drinking age agrees when we give him the information we have? Let us see. Then I'll be ready to say if I'm ignoring young people and their attitudes and opinions, because I don't think I'm doing that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u30	A respectable president. I might want a better answer to my previous question. I know this is a Senate case. I know it's not a government issue. There's contracts at the end of what subjects we're running and who we're not. I'm wondering, " Would it be a great deal to the senator that this case would come to a final vote and that there would be a vote here? ' Then there's the other thing, about the poll. I agree that this poll does not necessarily consider this bill. Interestingly, though, those members of the Parliament who oppose them have no problem referring to the exact same poll to claim that the bill is not supported. I agree with that. It should simply be directed to those who recommend support for this particular bill to ask, not to ask, what attitude is involved in getting a strong alcohol store, that wine and beer be sold at shops. It refers to a bill that was here about a decade ago and no longer applies. That's my point. I think the Senator can agree with me that it would be good for us to assess support for this particular bill. And as it is wrong when, in some way, it suggests that I do not handle young people's opinions properly and their views on this bill, I can point them to the other side, we should not necessarily interpret the results of the analysis of something else's point of view. Our bill is not a bill about putting beer and wine or anything else in grocery stores. Special shops, special storage within the stores, are expected. We've changed the course quite a bit since we last did it. They spoke of beer and wine at the grocery store, side by side with the milk. The change has now been made in a way that is similar to the range of times that apply today to the ADTVR, in fact, more stringent in many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u31	Mr. President. This case will be passed on to the council as prospective democratic proceedings. Let us see what happens in the commission work, as it were, in 2nd C.E. and then 3. It must be demonstrated whether it is willing to do so at the end of the race. I do not believe that this case will be approved even if it does enter the council. I have doubts about that. That would be a good thing, but we'll see what's going to happen. About what kind of arrangement this is. If we're thinking about freedom and people, about equality, the TVR will do something about it. If the senator says that this can be in special stores, in grocery stores anywhere, as the bill suggests, we are clearly having a lot of conflict with the population. That's it. That's it. Hv. This is where the original - language case laughs. How should we say otherwise? If there is one grocery store in a specific space that takes care of selling certain blacks, with young ones mostly on payment, buying from the Whales because she has no choice of another, how can she resist the competition that special stores here because of the population, or who decides to set up here? Don't send them out on the land for nothing. They do not send or order for humans a specific type, etc. Nothing says it'll be like that. But that's the way it is today. But I say again: Of course, we should not change an arrangement that has proved to be good. That's what it's all about. Besides all the public health issues that have been traced to young people and families and other such, it's just plain bullshit, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u32	V.E.G. President. Again, we will discuss a so - called wine bill, which has become known as the size of the discussion and the regular guest in this room and in the community talk. It is determined to put forth this remarkable priority for independence. Many people are amazed at the persistence and the obsession to beat this one through, but it may not be strange if a government contract is carried out by an independent group, a restoration, and a Birt's future. There is neither a masquerade of prevention nor of youth, nor a case of attention to the candidate's attention in a medical policy that we have presented here. When we discuss alcohol and this matter, which is the priority of independence, we can never say that the product we deal with is similar to that of another product. We can't talk about alcohol, like other consumer products. If this bill succeeds, it is human to place more embryotoxic substances, the only drug to cause foetal harm when drunk during pregnancy. It's not something I thought of. It's the findings of scientific research. Alcohol is alcohol, ethanol, no matter what dilution it is sold or drunk; it is the same as it has the same effect. Alcohol is an addictive drug and substance that immediately affects the central nervous system (CNS), i.e. the brain. The effects are well - known and sedated at one brain station after another, where judgment and restrictions go first. The well - known effect of alcohol on all other organ systems in the body, and its harm to human health is not limited to the alcoholic. In addition, countless social factors have been involved in alcohol abuse. This has been a great success in reducing teen drinking. This is good and certainly should be contributed to this, but one of the main methods of prevention is reducing access. It is well - known and well - known, however, by putting laws on reduced access to tobacco in Iceland, many steps with excellent results. Reduced bioavailability has been shown to play a role in reducing consumption. In view of various research and research, researchers and experts in the preflight field have told us that alcohol will increase the availability of alcohol as a result of an increase in consumption. I don't think that's gonna be a debate. In support of this, a number of studies can be referred to, both east and west. Because some senators have talked about the barbering in Britain and the nice things around her, I would like to draw attention to what was presented in the article entitled Róbert H. Haraldsson's son, professor at the University of Iceland, in the morning newspaper less than three years ago, by permission of a president: ▪ Checks e.g. The experience of our neighbors, the British, who have indeed taken the step into ◆ Modern - day times. The public's bioavailability has been increased steadily in Britain, and in 2012, there were a number of alcohol sale sites in England and Wales in England and 51,130, while 220,000 are added to places that have the right to sell alcohol for use at the site. Is it known there that there was no fear? Not much is far from true. The British now speak full of alcohol epidemics... In other lands, there have been examples of this. David Cameron also declared that the tarnaes drink of the British had not been reduced, more access that alcohol has not shown itself to its decrease. Tarna drinking is one of the most serious causes of society the British have ever faced. So all we need to do is look to our neighbors. They talk about retreating and conservativeness in the arrangement we have and that it is old - fashioned. I think it's pretty good to be old-fashioned if that's the case. Various nations that we have considered progressive and modern - day have restrictions on alcohol sales in their lands. Some countries in the United States, such as Pennsylvania and most of Canada's states, and some of the northern countries that are considered modern and exemplary in many countries, have restrictions on alcohol sales. Nations such as Sweden and the Irish want to turn around and decrease their bioavailability due to their experience. Do we need to find every pit in which others have entered and plunged into them? I don't think so. We have the results of a number of scientific research, knowledge, and professional experience that repeatedly warn us of an increase in alcohol consumption. It is strange to hear people who even speak in another word about the importance of education and the value of progress in scientific work and research claim that there is no reason to ignore scholars and people with expertise in human health, alcohol prevention, and medicine. V.E.G. President. It may be noted that the nation's opposition has increased substantially, and in recent surveys, more is opposed to allowing wine to be sold at the grocery store and much more is opposed to allowing strong liquor to be sold in stores. This rhymes with the message we members of the Parliament have received and with the comments of many members of the council here. I would especially like to point out that during a district week in the Northeast, where all the champions in the district met us, there was a strong message from the people who strongly warned against adding to the supply of alcohol. I want to listen to them. I think there's one part of this road that's too heavy for me. We're partners in the Northern Union. It identifies a declared policy following a successful and extensive work at this level of scientific and research data that were best familiar with and independent of alcohol producers. The work paid off in a committee proposal approved by the Council of Northern America, and hence we are included in that package. As we have seen, this case will continue to be handled, and it will be considered this spring. I think that too many reasons are that the same situation produces good results. We are on our way, and the nations have looked to us as examples. I've heard my conversations with experts in this area and people who are leading the preemptives and who work on alcohol abuse. By unsatisfied arrangements, Icelanders, who like to drink alcohol, will continue to do so in a way that is convenient for them, and their closest ones are satisfied with it. They will continue to enjoy the availability of fine wine stores and a ministry that has improved greatly over the years. Rejecting this bill is not speaking against drinking alcoholic beverages or with abstinence. It's about access. It's about our course in this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Þórunn In fact, Egilsdóttir for her speech and for passing through what has been shown in research that the system we live in today's Iceland is about limiting access to alcohol. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that this is an arrangement for which there is good protection. For one thing, I agree with it. A senator who is opposed to the bill. But there's one thing I'd like to have a place to say. A senator about. The report repeatedly speaks of alcohol, as is true of other consumer products. For example, a headline says: The benefits of selling alcohol with other consumer products. It is also called public and legal consumers, such as tobacco and ammo. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she agrees with me in that alcohol is not a product product of any kind. Alcohol is certainly legal, not general consumer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I agree that it is strange to go when you discuss alcohol like any other consumer product. We all know that something has examined the matter, and I think we're most aware of it, that alcohol is not like any other consumer, as I actually came into my speech earlier. It is also known that alcohol is the only harmful drug in the womb during pregnancy. No amount is safe for the foetus. It doesn't work that we talk about this as any consumer product, although the product is legal, it's not in the place where we can afford it. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think it's important that in this discussion we draw out that the movers seem to have a different view of what kind of alcohol is than the rest of us who have declared that we are opposed to the bill. In fact, I was pointed out earlier, all the while. A senator spoke, not only that this is not spoken of as a general consumer product, but simply says that this view applies to alcohol and other consumers and necessities. In fact, it is even further that alcohol is not just a consumer product but simply a necessity. I must protest. There is another point that has been presented here in the debate at the Assembly Hall. A few of them. Congress officials have declared that they cannot accept the bill in the form it appears here, but they may be able to get some relief from it. For example, it has been suggested that we abstain from what is suggested here to allow alcohol advertising. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject. Is there not every reason to be cautious about this? Because here it is moving the line even more so just as to be able to negotiate a certain misdemeanor of the case and accept something that would be a softer version of what appeared in the bill text. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if we don't have to be especially aware of this, because that's why the store's in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u36	V.E.G. President. I still want to thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I agree, I think we need to be on our guard in all this. It is a natural way of thinking that if you plan on getting things done first, you can go as far as you can, and maybe you can't, because you can come back. As I said earlier, there has been much persistence in bringing this matter forward repeatedly, and there is something wrong, for the public does not call for this. I've been through all my districts now, and I've been doing it before this year, and I've been there many times. There was no one who spoke of the poor quality of life because there was insufficient access to alcohol. No one calls for it to me. I haven't heard that. I don't think it's very funny, for all of us can live without alcohol. True, it can be fun and mean it, and I don't object to people drinking alcohol, but we live in this society where we need to have a set of frames and specific controls. We are responsible for one another, and we need to work together to do so. The arrangement we have shown is good. Other nations have looked to us in this regard. Our experts in the fields of alcohol - control and medicine are invited to other countries to give lectures and talks there. As we noted earlier, nothing has to be said about our renting up because it's so cool in foreign lands. That's not what it's about. We can totally stand on our feet. We have our reasons here. We have experience, and we have research, and we have knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u37	A respectable president. Alcohol is indeed food for consumption. I don't think it's ordinary consumer products. If it were our opinion that alcohol was a ordinary consumer product, this bill would sound like a loss of alcohol. They'd just be shopping with alcohol, like any other consumer product. Alcohol laws remain in force with very detailed and often burdensome rules on who can sell alcohol, under what circumstances. There's a lot of taxes on alcohol. They put money in the prevention of alcohol abuse. This does not apply to normal consumer products. We are certainly not arguing that alcohol is a regular consumer product. Other than that, I would like to thank the senator very much for his good speech. I think she put the weight on what in my opinion is the best evidence in this case, which is evidence of public health, and that increased consumption of alcohol may cause social damage. I wondered, for earlier, when we were asking people about their stand on the beer and other things, if that were the case, it was called "a matter of matter. " A senator believes that alcohol consumption should be restricted as to what means it would be suggested in order to do so. Would it be by banning the beer again and if it is not the way, what other means does it consider most reasonable as the next step to further moderate the consumption of alcohol? If I understand her speech correctly, it must be the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for the answer. Now I make it clear that I am not an expert on the prowess or anything like that. I'll check the carpenter and talk to them. They tell me that alcohol inhibits alcohol abuse, that reduces alcohol consumption, as well as others, as proved by access to tobacco and the action we took there. That was a major part of the reduction in tobacco consumption. I think we need to stick with this. I don't think it's realistic and it would be a fairy tale to think that we could go back a few decades or a long way back and start banning everything. We'll never make it to that place. This is a matter of education, prevention and control of the bioavailability. I don't want to move on with the arrangement we have now, not right now, and only if I have a valid reason for it. We need, then, to further examine the effect that this would have on us. We don't have that kind of research. We have nothing to recommend that we go that way. That's why I want us to stick to the way that's been shown to be good. It has proved true that it will help us, and we will succeed. I don't want to move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u39	A respectable president. Actually, I don't think that history is one policy in that if we've made one decision at any time, one way or another, we can't go back, never ever. I don't think anyone would have thought of that, for example. In 1870, 50 years later alcohol has been banned in many Western lands, as was done. Surely that would have seemed completely ridiculous. Similarly, I feel that it is important that they declare their position in order to possibly return to that time. If tests indicated that we could prevent the other and these diseases by controlling a high level of alcohol consumption, e.g. To ban, perhaps not beer, but stronger alcohol, would we take it step? For word's sake. I wondered, " Is it ready to look at the part, see the number of sales places, look at the opening time of sale, their location of places built and closer to other services, or whether it is convinced that the government monopoly is the key to the current success, if we can say so? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek again and again before the answer. The fact that the State is holding this issue gives us the box that we now have. The land has been increasing, shops have been increasing. All I hear is that people are happy for that service. From where I come from, there is one store that's open for an hour a day. I can't hear anybody needs that much booze that needs to start opening something more. True, there are places where no service is and where it has not been opened. But the service level, the payment of species, and many, and such things, is brilliant in these stores. I wonder what happens if this happens at the hands of the store. Who is the ruler of this country in trade? Who will have the power? Who will rule the goods? Who will begin to control it? I'll put a big question mark on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u41	A respectable president. Here people are gathered here to discuss a matter of freedom and responsibility. I deal with it with an understanding of my responsibility, the responsibility for the freedom that comes from free drinking, with limitations, in shops. I respect the viewpoints presented here. I also respect the comments and messages I have received from the community. I don't take people's concerns lightly. I also want people to know that the bill is in shape and that the discussion taking place here today will be used on my part to continue working on it. I've done a lot of homework in connection with my transfer on the case. I've visited various relevant parties, such as the Children's Institute, the Women's Hospital, the Police in the capital area, the governor's office, the U.S.A., and the InTVR. I will not belittle the impact of increasing access on consumption. It is a simple account example that clearly indicates the increase in Vienna's NTVR and long-term opening times. I've read carefully all the data that experts testify to. What I miss, however, is the need to discuss the availability of alcohol in whole terms of having the responsibility of the Lawgiver in more ways than who has the right to sell alcohol. Most studies indicate that the key to reducing alcohol consumption is widespread prophylaxis and strong therapeutic cores. Then, over and over again, I have found the results of research that the price - and - law balance of alcohol use is more effective than when and where alcohol is sold. You need to look both for sales arrangements and for limitation of consumption. I reiterate that I respect the viewpoints presented here. I make the demands for other members of Congress that they also respect my viewpoint. This is where people have wanted to define my opinion based on my position. As director of a welfare committee and spokesman for children, I am responsible for approaching the bill and offering adjustments to the way we protect children from the harmful effects of alcohol. This work is not merely about who is authorized to sell alcohol. I believe my voice in behalf of children has more purpose and force within the group than outside. For example, the bill says no ban on advertising, so I want to change things that I don't think children should do with alcohol. I believe that the State is not necessarily to do a little sale, but it is to make rules about it and monitor it. Then I base my position on my own experience as I was born and raised in the United States. They sell alcohol at grocery stores and special stores. I never remember a discussion with my parents about whether they were going to drink red wine or white wine with their food. I was not encouraged to buy alcohol solely because it was visible and accessible to those of old age. The law environment in the United States, which sells and consumes alcohol, has much more to do with limiting alcohol than where alcohol is sold. However, I was taught to associate with alcohol, that I would have to make informed decisions about its consumption, what the consequences would be for me if I made a decision about its consumption, and what benefits will come from saying no. Since I moved to Iceland, my consumption of alcohol has not increased or decreased. I don't feel any particular desire to have a slice of wine in IKEA, even if it's available. Besides, I haven't ordered a drink at the bar in my hair shop, even if it's available. The OECD report, with the permission of the President, is packed in May 2015 with the importance of limiting access to alcohol. It provides a good explanation that the best way to do this is to work with measures that involve both sale and consumption. The current sales arrangements are limited. However, less attention is given to limitation of consumption. The aim of the government's alcohol and tobacco trades is to be among the top services in Iceland, the service to sell alcohol, to be known for its social responsibility, to teach wine culture, and to be in the highest order compared to alcohol monopolitan sales in the North countries for key numbers in business. To be on the front row, folks. Never in history, more alcohol has been sold than at present. In 2011, 18.5 billion gallons [0.55 billion L] were sold in the wine camps. This figure had reached nearly 21 billion in 2016. An open season has been extended, and wine camps have increased. In other words, the goal of the State is not to limit alcohol consumption in Iceland. It is also difficult to obtain information on matters related to the subject. There was a time when provisions could be accessed and licensed at the Habitat. I was told that the woman responsible for that summary ended there in 2005, and then these figures have not been available. So I've asked for a number of published wine-piercs and I'm waiting for the ministry to give a reply about it. In the current legislation, the social responsibility of ATVR is defined: OntVR is involved in building a wine culture, e.g. training for customers on wine and the connection between food and wine A respectable president. There is something crazy about the State's role in building a wine culture. In my opinion, private agents should take care of that. And the State is to handle legislation, monitoring, prevention and substantial support of a strong therapeutic core. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I visited U.S.A. and Vg last week. This strong therapeutic core is greatly neglected and in severe angle management. There we are not doing our part to influence the consumption of alcohol sufficiently. I admit that selling alcohol free is no special preemptive task, as experience shows that consumption is not determined by whether it is a state or a private dealer who sells the product. Drinking depends on awareness of the dangers of alcohol and the importance of home and community instruction. This is among the factors the bill suggests in two groups: 1st On one hand, the rate of alcohol charge on public health project should be increased from 1% to 5%. It's a big jump. 2. It is also suggested that there be a temporary addition of the laws on surgeons and public health, No. 41/2007, in which the public health fund will be made to focus special on preemptive activities in the field of alcohol prevention for the next two years after approval of the bill. I feel that we can talk about here that the customers of the retail stores must be as conscious as customers of moral values associated with alcohol. It's about trust and the fact that politicians are not always making a frame when people are the best ones to choose and reject. I want to say here that although I have received many comments and people express concern about this bill, I have also received a lot of comments about people's will to be entrusted with the responsibility of themselves. Alcohol is a public and legal consumer, such as tobacco and ammo. So ask yourself: " Is there any particular justice in pursuing an alcoholic through a business venture? The question will be especially perplexed when you consider that this is a government agency, the governor's office, according to the law of No. 41/2007, about the surgeon and public health, with preemptive work developed and won. It is said that ATSVR should contribute to improved wine culture in their policy of social responsibility. In 2017, however, it is surprising that we expect the State to be taught how to drink alcohol. The Kingdom is to teach you how to drink and with what to eat and how to protect you, not how to drink and how to drink. A key question to me is, don't politicians trust people who are 20 years old to choose and turn down in their lives? I do, and I don't think it's hard to believe that we're discussing this matter here and there, a case that really is about trust in people. We trust private partners to sell the product, and we trust people to know what it is to buy. As a representative of the future, I would like to emphasize that my involvement in this matter cannot be understood that we in a short future are minimizing the problems created by alcohol. Alcohol consumption is a problem in many places, but thanks to the failure of the problem, it is not a government patent on the product. During my visits to various people involved, I have learned that there is work to do beyond the bill laid here if the government is to shoulder responsibility for legislation and control of alcohol consumption. Other factors, such as public health policies, prevention measures, and informed discussion in homes and in society about alcohol abuse, also serve a key role. I'm stressing that in the bill, the object of the alcohol charge is expected - once again I say this - used in pre-emptives five times as much and goes from 1% to 5%. It is important to say this over and over again because it matters. That is essential, regardless of whether this bill goes through or not. I believe that the discussion that took place the other day and today will lead to changes to the benefit of this bill. I will take everything that has been stated here into the process of conversation. At least I wondered a few things. If one is so concerned about the increase in alcohol - related consumption, why has nothing been done to help him cope? Why has there not been an increase in money for prevention? Why is the treatment core not financed as in the treatment of other diseases? Why have alcohol - related laws not been discussed? Perhaps we should think beyond this particular bill and ask ourselves why we do not trust in the community to accept responsibility for alcohol abuse. Is it possible that this is because we have put our full trust in one stateed enterprise too long and not being responsible enough for ourselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his speech, the chairman of the World Health Committee. That was a hell of a story. It is true that a talk presented itself. The senator, who is still in a political process, no doubt will change something into the council. She even talked about it. In his speech, politicians should not decide where to approach alcohol or whether or when people can buy alcohol. I'd like to ask her what she feels like to be a working chairman of something. The World Health Committee of the Generals on the words of a surgeon who has warned that this bill will be adopted. I would really like to commend you. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, who spoke to a number of people, asks whether she went to the surgeon general's office to discuss this matter with him. The surgeon general has said that it is tragic that this matter is restored, it will result in an increase in social costs, and in countries such as the United States. Sweden has had an increase in various factors, such as violence, community costs, and other factors, after sales were released. At the same time, I wanted to ask her if she had developed a view of how to react to these comments made by a surgeon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I went to the surgeon general, but the surgeon wasn't there. I got to talk alone -- wasn't it eight people? So I got into my mouth to talk. Of course, we discussed his responsibility. And as I mentioned in my talk, I am deeply distressed. I get it. But we also discussed that this is integrated in other aspects. There are many other factors that we need to consider to see that sales may be made free, but they can be limited in ways other than our present system. That's where we talked. Legal age. If people go and buy wine and a debet card, they're not legitimate IDs. Nobody's gonna stop this from there. Nobody does anything about it. But since I'm in the United States, Michigan, no one can buy wine unless presenting legal conditions. The sales won't pass by the system if they're not prescribed. So there are many things we need to consider. And this conversation needs to go to a higher level than using fear propaganda as to what can happen if the sales are made free. We need to say how we react. That led to our conclusion at the surgeon general's office, among these fine people. What prevention? I also asked what they were going to do with this elevated amount. Now my speech is up. I'll answer that question next time. But neither do they have a plan. They wait for us to tell them how they should react and what action to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. Senator. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress: Did the conversation with the surgeon conclude that we had to stop the fear - inspiring propaganda? Or in response, what did the chairman of the welfare committee mean? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator whether she has studied the details of the case since the previous council and sees how social and health professionals are warned about this bill's approval and whether it is a fear - inspiring statement. Has she studied and seen in the comments that traders and services recommend it? How does she feel about that? What interests does it feel that this bill is being contributed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u45	A respectable president. I think I got it all, I was just writing a lot. No, it wasn't his conclusion, it was part of the conversation. But he wasn't there, I take it back out again. There were eight men. But this was a good conversation, for we went up to a higher issue than using fear propaganda. That's what I was saying. But when you talk about him warning you, think of these words: We need to think about this: a warning? That's exactly what we're doing. We're gonna talk here on a responsibility. What am I supposed to do? The head of the welfare committee? I'll just say, "Hey, listen, we need to look at this and that." We'll have to, for example. checking the wine license. People say they don't want it in a camp, but you can still go to IKEa and get a beer and a slice of cake. Is that okay? You can't buy this in Netto. That is what we must consider. When I get a haircut, I walk past a whiskey bar and a beer shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty before her speech. It may not be surprising that we do not agree in everything, but that's just the way it is. The diversity of human life allows for this. I must declare that I feel sorry that the head of the welfare committee is one of the transporters of a bill that directly assumes that consumption of dangerous and harmful products is increasing. But that's just my opinion, and there's nothing more to say about it. But, hey. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, however, is very honest in his case that the consumption, as she said earlier, is a simple account example. In a matter of what. A senator noted that the consumption is not determined by whether the government is the privates selling alcohol or if it is the government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it feels that advertising has an effect on sales, as one of them may be. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, chairman of the welfare committee, suggested with this bill that alcohol advertisements be allowed. Counts 'em out. A senator that will increase the sales of alcohol? Hv. One senator, like other couriers, said on the bill, said that alcohol is like other consumers, guns, and tobacco are there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is it not, then, that tobacco advertisements are permitted? Why should we allow advertising on alcohol and take tobacco as an example of the same kind of consumer product while forbidding advertising of tobacco? A lot. A senator supports tobacco advertising?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kololin Óttarsson Proppér for his answer and for letting me talk about advertising. This morning on my way up to the University of Iceland, I saw three advertising painted big and clearly on a car. I didn't see the font. Advertising is present. We have to deal with what they're like. What I want is for us to stop them from pointing at children, just as they say in tobacco laws, the new ones that came the other day. I want us to focus on the fact that already advertising is there, and no one is doing anything about it. I was driving home from the council the other day, and I heard four advertisements on the radio by turning over. There was one at the offer of Tuborg, one at the invitation of Heineken, there was a ◆ chappie hour◯ and there was always cold beer on the tap. We have to talk about this. How do we want this? There's nothing just now. As for being head of a welfare committee, I'm going to state that I'm also an individual. I'm an individual, I'm a senator who has the right to have an opinion on this. But as head of a welfare committee, it is my responsibility to defend this predestination. I have to, and I have to protect the treatment core I was talking about. I have to take responsibility for the decision I have made, and that is what I will do as the head of a welfare committee. But as an individual, as a senator, as a woman who grew up in another country with a different culture and experience, and with a view to this, I say: I want us to take this conversation in a perfunctory way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I disagree. A senator said that although drinking ads are found in some form today, the way is to give up and allow them all. Hv. Also, a senator did not say whether to promote tobacco with the same reasoning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u49	Writing for foreign media?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u50	Me and what. A senator doesn't share the same understanding of what it is to be an associate on the bill. I agree with what. A senator says we should take an informed discussion, but he wants us to do so. The report identifies a member of the body and other transporters. That's what's being suggested. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament is only in the report and on prevention. In December there was an effort to increase money on various matters. Sadly, that did not come into harmony. However, the report says that consumption will increase and, therefore, need to be increased for procurators but only for two years. [[The president calls.]] What happens after the two years? Wants to play. The head of the welfare committee tells me what is turning into the consumer environment so that it won't be needed after two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u51	A respectable president. I'm not giving up. That's what I'd like to say. I'm on my first steps and this is a marathon. This is something that we have to follow because of responsibility and that I will do the four years I'm gonna be here, if this bill goes through. I'll follow through on that. I'm not gonna give up, and we're gonna take a very serious discussion and talk about it. As for my transport to the bill, I initially said that my voice is more important within the group. That's what I'm saying. For these two years, I know very little about magic, so I can't answer it. But I'd like to say that maybe we'll set up a set procedure. I'll mention it here, in OECD and WHO procedures and all of it, they're talking about how we work together in the middle of consumers and sales. During these two years, we may be able to decide how we will conduct ourselves in this regard, how we will handle these matters. [[Up front.]] I hope this is the beginning of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and thanking that the discussion is about to advance, as it were. A chapter in her talk involved discrimination in a trade arrangement and, on the other hand, in eating. There was a very interesting tip and a debate on the part of the horse. Senator. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator of her opinion, what she sees about the consumer behavior of the Icelanders. Iceland, according to a survey, does not consume much alcohol. Just not at all. We just don't consume a lot of alcohol in spite of two million tourists coming to the country. But it says that when we consume alcohol, we do a lot of it for a long time. Counts 'em out. A senator that the consumer behavior of the Icelanders may change after we change the sales arrangement? Let us watch this out - of - date government system if this changes, can't we expect healthy consumption patterns, consumer behavior?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate that. I'm going to share with you one good story. The first time I went to a liquor store 16 years ago, there were fewer drinking camps. They were closed for four days at Christmas. I went to ATSVR and there was a row outside. There were people coming out with their wagons full of alcohol. I just couldn't understand what was happening to me. I didn't know what was going on. Really. I'm not kidding. I just thought, "What, are you guys just shutting it down? I didn't understand. This arrangement may not be seen as often today. At any rate, I've never seen such a payoff. And what happened was that we went in, and I was just going to buy a bottle of wine to have Christmas dinner, because I'm used to it. My husband went in with me and said, "No, no, no, you have to buy this and this and this. These people are coming, and this is happening and the store will be closed for four days. I just took a throw and bought and bought, but I didn't drink of it. I just didn't get it. But now I see people go in and buy, and they buy responsibility. I believe this behavior has to do with our speaking loudly and clearly about our responsibility for alcohol and its harm. We'll keep up our discussion there, we'll work on this prevention and we won't be afraid of it. We are not shy about saying that and allowing children to benefit and people to say no if they want to. Even if it is sold here and there, we will continue to influence people's behaviors and consumption of alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this interesting story. Poor is the eye of the guest. This is exactly what I came in on. Changing the state monopoly on alcohol from ATVR has nothing to do with public health in itself. We can contribute to this by means of prevention and instruction and by assisting those who need assistance, including those who are in need of assistance. by promoting responsible consumer culture or wine culture through these methods. That's what I'm talking about. Over the next few years, would not a senator be willing to work toward strengthening these factors, which are so powerful to counteract excessive drinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question and say: Yes, I would like to. And that's what I believe is my role as the head of a welfare committee. I'm under obligation to do so, in fact, only to members in general, if this bill goes through. It is our responsibility to conduct education all the way, and it must never be detracted from the bad things alcohol can cause. They're important. And to support the U.S.A., and that organization and our health system, its role toward those who have problems, I believe it is also our responsibility. And that's what I'm ready to do. It would be a win - to see that we take these steps with responsibility and not decide that things are going to burn and rain, and that we see people drooling and drinking all over the place, as the fear propaganda tells us. It would be a pleasure to see that we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u56	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bad business here one more time. I found that very interesting at the time. paritaprevir The Teitur Einarsson, the 1st official, wondered if the bill would alter the practices of consumption, whether normal consumer behavior would follow. All of a sudden, public health issues are being guided in the bill, as if by the national liberals. Excuse me, Mr. President, my health is not quite at the best, so I'm going to have a glass of water. There are arguments in this matter. Each speaks for himself in that regard, whether he is a member of the general store or if he is accompanied by alcohol, since alcohol will remain in the State's alcohol store, and the government will continue to have its patents on its sale. It is torn between public health and the viewpoints of so - called freedom, freedom of the individual and Business Freedom; the view of freedom and those who feel that there is a need for responsibility in these matters; and that alcohol is not like any other consumers but that alcohol has to be sold as limited as possible to the availability of younger people who don't have age to drink, who don't have alcohol for those who are sick and who are unable to go and take good care of them in such a way as it is possible, but alcohol is readily available to those who have age and wide around the country as it is today. What a pleasure it is for us to see how these matters have been handled over the years! Why, then, should we abandon that course when experience has shown us that no one calls for alcohol to go to stores? The latest study shows that there are still about 60% of the population who still have some resistance to drinking and want to do business today. To me, it's the public health plan number one, two and three that make me lie absolutely against this case, which is being moved here for the 13th time. I am amazed at its carriers, especially the 1st, its new senator, Teitur Einarsson. I would have thought it wasn't the first thing that would come to his mind when he sat down here in the General Assembly, there were other cases more than watered in it, such as the settlement and the problem of the country, I'm not talking about the West, where he's raised and well aware. I didn't realize in the campaign that the merchants of this case had fought for it, or charged that this would be the first case anyone would bring if they were to enter the council. Perhaps it would have been fair to voters to keep it to a greater extent than was done. Some may have held it up in a tighter group, but I do not recall any newspaper articles coming from shippingmen saying that it would be their big case if they sat down at a council fighting for alcohol to go to shopping. Besides, I don't think it's very honest to always bring this bad stuff around the back because they don't have the guts to talk to it in a campaign. This is not a popular case. It's not a matter that sells but a certain narrow group. The group may already be part of the Independence Party, which has been a fighting party for this matter. Now, the little Independence Party comes up to the side, repairs the flag of this case. I find it very strange that a bright future, that category, will become a Viking for this matter. I think it's very strange that this party has this on its policy list. Because this is a very serious matter. We are all responsible for our community in one way or another. Whether we're senators, inventors, teachers, nursery teachers, or where we're in society, we share responsibility to protect our children's rights and to reduce young people from getting involved in drugs and other similar activities before the age they can consume. Whether they are a drinking problem or a drug problem, we can never prevent problems, but we can reduce them. We do this by having these things in the way that has been here in Iceland. We're supposed to be proud of it. We should have no feelings of inadequacy. Certainly the custom is in every country. In the United States, there are other customs. In Iceland, there are other customs. Our customs prove that alcohol consumption has been reduced, and we have begun to associate with alcohol in a different way than before. It's reduced teen drinking here in Iceland. All research has shown that. Why should we not listen to all our members, to the World Health Organization, to the surgeon, to the Children's Heart, and to any association that work with children, to parents, and to others? Why should we ignore all the arguments presented in their comments on this matter, as at the last time? It hasn't changed. Why are we supposed to be picking up the bike in these subjects and talking about this as if it were human health; now that there's so healthy about alcohol, now that you don't have to stand in line, now you can just jump into Bronson and Netto and buy it? Not all who want alcohol before their eyes when they're buying the usual consumer products, food and other things, people don't want it. Although it's different in other countries, that's just the way it is. We've been preconceiving to show that things can be kept in this direction. We have nothing to be ashamed of, even if the government has it in its own hands and is benefiting from it. It's only fine, because the government has health systems in its own way. Of course, there is a shortage of health and prevention funds. So we can't do anything because we'll eventually make some money. It is never mentioned here that there may be mainly the viewpoint of the store and the big shopping parties that continue to drive people on this road, including the interests of big companies, such as Hague, who have been given the authority for a number of alcohol types. It's these big parties who will celebrate if these things pass through here. Are we in here, senators, putting out the interests of these big shopping chains? Or are we going to take care of our children and our teenagers and the people in our vulnerable society? Have we listened to what the FEW has been talking about in this matter? Doesn't that matter to us? Do we just say that each one of us is to be responsible for himself? Is that normal? Is it that way in times of trial? So, then, do we not want to take care of our neighbor when we are under test? It's a really good thing to say this when it's all right. People who feel that they can handle alcohol and drink it with their roast for Christmas think that it is very good to be able to go to the evening of Christmas on Christmas or to go to Netto and buy some red wine with their food. It looks good in movies, but it's a shiny movie that isn't drawn up in families that have been struggling with alcohol problems. Young children and families of alcoholics tell other stories, and they do not want people to go to a grocery store to shop for food and to keep their eyes on a daily basis. I'd also like to come on one thing that's often forgotten, and I'm going to be a coach, i.e. the number of people working far and wide across the country at the TVR and often work for older people. These people would lose their jobs. They probably don't care about that, just saying that other jobs respond. But that does not necessarily happen. In commercial stores, alcohol is a good thing for those who can eat it, but I don't see if a liquor dealer gets free and alcohol goes shopping. These little shops will have very few selections and high pricing. These little shops can't afford to lie with a large stock, can't afford to be with a wide variety of choices. They will risk the cost of transport, but today alcohol costs all over the country. No, the country's settlement will now be paid for its price for which the dictators intend to be paid. There will be no equations to equal it or anyone to speak for it. Of course, the officials of the situation do not care that alcohol prices increase in the country and the quality of goods are reduced. It doesn't matter to them. There will be plenty of alcohol in the local capital area. To move in the old layer, i.e. that people in a country where they have the age and would like to shop at times have to order a letter from the city of Reykjavík? Is this being moved back 30 to 40 years? I think people should think about this only in this context when talking about these matters. This is a different side to this matter than the public health gate, to reduce the consumption of alcohol, is my main concern. I have a study of the Hausum, which says that alcohol is taken less often in Iceland than in the rest of the North countries. All right. It's not because of this bill. No, thanks to this country, there is a health and prevention policy that has led to this success. We have this in good shape today within the TVR, a very good management tool for these issues, which has led us to high levels of success, i.e. It reduces alcohol consumption, and Iceland is drinking less often than it does, and it does happen elsewhere in the North countries. We know the problem in Denmark, where we have a lot of day - to - day drinking that affects the work of people in a job market. Of course, this problem would be present in Iceland if a man could pull a beer with him when he went to a shop for ten coffee and had a lunch, and so on. The movers of this matter may care about all such matters, not about them, but, rather, for the profit of the departments that drive them along as they have been for the 13 times this case has been on the agenda. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u57	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for a very good speech. Now that we've just got a vote, we're from the same district now. I have to agree that in this district week, people came to me very much and asked me how I felt about this matter. I said very well that I'm opposed to this dispute, and I don't remember a single time when people didn't agree with me and felt that it was a strange priorities that this was the issue that was at the top of the list of transporters. Hv. A senator has discussed various reports about the matter since the previous council. Has she noticed that social and health professionals have warned against accepting this bill? Does she agree with the words that have fallen to the Hall of Congress that it is called panic propaganda? Has a what? A senator sees that another group that has turned in the comments of the stakeholders of commerce and services is in agreement and supports the approval of the bill? Has a what? A senator formed a view of the interests involved in this bill's donation? I'll make it count for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u58	Mr. President. We were not aware of this, senators, in the district of July, that there was a call for alcohol in stores. People were more eager to see some infrastructure in our country and in our quarters. However, I find it very strange when we discuss predestination with members of the Parliament the challenges we face regarding not accepting this matter are called panic propaganda. Fear of what? Of course, it's just common sense and research that has been available and that has been published in Iceland and around the world. It is based on these challenges. I have a challenge from the Children's Heir, Uncekef, with the permission of a president: ▪ We invite senators to study closely the research and the position of professionals in the field of health and social care for the bill. It makes it clear that the removal of private ATVR and the increased level of alcohol in advertising will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption in both adolescents and adults. Therefore, if it is realized that the changes proposed in the bill will have serious negative consequences for the health, development, and safety of the children. This weighs heavily on my mind and should be done for all members of the council. We cannot always take responsibility in the shelter of so - called freedom. So freedom is the death of another man. It's just that way. We need to be careful of so many things and be careful. We're going to put a few songs on a lot of things. We didn't want to back up and take it for example. Through traffic laws, safety belts are to be used. Someone would now call putting laws on safety belts for custody. Why don't we just evaluate it for ourselves if it's dangerous to be without a safety bee on the road or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator that I cannot agree that this is a frightening propaganda but this is a case based on research. Many stakeholders in the field of research and prevention in our good society have warned of this and based their case on knowledge. I'd like to ask you what, too. A senator in the word of a surgeon. A surgeon is one of the professionals who has warned about accepting this bill. He has even. discussed how approval might result in an increase in social costs from 20 to 60% depending on the case categories, whether it is violence, the pressures on the health system, or other factors. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with the surgeon and his warnings?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u60	Mr. President. I wholeheartedly agree with these words by the surgeon that the cost of society could increase by more than 20% or even more. It refers to enormous sums of money, except for the human tragedy and all that is not visible or overcrowded. In homes that we do not see, violence toward children, and so forth, young people get involved in drinking too early, and then get lost because of drug abuse. We have to weigh this. It is not enough to suggest that the amount of money in public health will be increased for two years. It's not a patch that works on this big wound that's being done with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u61	A respectable president. At first, I have to say that in time. A senator looks at a man here and says that he's a small group, so I don't really think that's a good part of the discussion. A man is accustomed to some political discussions, but I feel that such discussions belong in communal systems, not in this chair. So I turn to a material discussion at the time. The senator does not find it difficult to create the connection that, as the store is likely to be supplied with the bill's contents, those who present it are running. All of the country's wine producers, who have a total of 80% of shelf space at the NTVR stores, are provided with the current system. Then I wonder if she can guess the reasons behind her, whether they have a common health point in mind when fighting the changes that are being proposed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of the fact that wine producers are in favor, as I understood it, because it will be the same way it is today, it may primarily mean how good the arrangement is today, i.e. that all persons have access to this. These same producers would not have a chance to sell their liquor and productions at the Lagisfjords or at Isafjordur. It's those big sharks that are gonna swallow it. They will swallow this. They swallow the commission, and this will be some special stores in the capital area. Then there will be cheap box wine in low - price stores across the country. That's how it's gonna be. It may well be that some large ones will make a lot of money, shareholders of these big shopping parties and these big parties. Therefore, I am not surprised that those producers consider their interest to be better paid within the NTVR category than with Haga in the first category. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes for having compared his party to the Independence Party, but it's just to me that there are many similarities between duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u63	A respectable president. There are no doubt many reasons to oppose the subject of this bill. But this is not one of them. The arrangement for taking the State's monopoly on alcohol and placing alcohol in the hands of a private member has been tried. It was, for example. Try Washington State a few years ago. It did not have the effect of cohesion. A job at a liquor store was about to take the place. Those who stopped working at Kingdom Halls began working in private liquor camps. Total amount of traffic didn't change, it grew if something happened. The choice did not change. The bioavailability was not altered. There are many reasons to oppose this bill, but there is no need to worry that storemen can't sell alcohol to people and are unable to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u64	Mr. President. Criticism of this issue is not that any persons, whether they work in public shops or at the NTVR store, can deliver alcohol. It's not about how people can handle alcohol. This is about public health, the increase in consumption after this, the less the selection of this product in the markets across the country, the higher the price. Hv. A senator has not shown me that alcohol does not care for anything in the country today. Hv. Also, a senator has not shown me that shopping in the country has the same choice as in the TVR today. Apart from being a public health worker in the country, I stand in a state of service in the country. Senators should do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u65	Madam President. Hv. A senator gave a talk that helped him to have two conflicting views on the subject. It's not common for you to hear it. At times, you may hear it in court when people make the basic requirement and then a precautionary requirement. The prime requirement is that man is innocent, but the reserve is that if he is guilty, he did this by mistake. The other two conflicting views. One authority is to worry about the increase in consumption and thus influence the public health of the country and the concern that the selection, bioavailability, and service will make the bill worse. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether it is the country's access to alcohol today. The bioavailability is approximately equal? All residents of this country sit at the same table? Counts 'em out. A senator's access to residents in Thyatira who have to drive 100 miles [100 km] would choose to drink alcohol or wine with the food be comparable to the availability of residents in Seltananes, where there is still a liquor store in spite of the challenges of the town government, which must walk 100 yards? Is that comparable? Counts 'em out. To this end, a senator of the country's equals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u66	A respectable president. As a regional senator, there is talk. Local council members, I would like to say that. National Parliamenters should be concerned about other things in the country, but if they choose to buy alcohol, they need to shop in the largest places in the area in which they live. Hv. Councilmen should be more concerned with the business of these settlements and that public services have been submitted whether they are banks, Icelands, or anything like that. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah. A senator should be concerned about that. Today, alcohol, whether on the West, or elsewhere, is a very good access to alcohol. It's just that way. Those living in more scattered settlements need to attend nuclear sites and attend these services on the way. They are very happy with that. There has been no challenge from people in such places to make sure that alcohol comes to the places where they live. There has been no challenge. In case of a moment. On the other hand, a senator reads to his voters, so I have not met with those voters in the northwestern district or heard in general that they are argumentative. In view of the fact that there are two conflicting views of favouring an offer, where alcohol is permitted at the State alcohol store and that there will be a fair price for nationwide, as well as that we have to be careful about public health issues and the problems associated with alcohol consumption, in fact, it's a very compatible view. Are we talking about improving our public health by reducing the consumption of alcohol in the country, putting down the service with what follows, that it will be taken out of the hands of the ATVR?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u67	Madam President. It's interesting to hear an answer. Senator. I can't understand her answer any other than that she feels that the access of Americans to alcohol is fairly good and equal, although there is a difference between the bioavailability I mentioned in a previous answer, e.g. in Thyatira or Bilddal has to drive over 100 miles [100 km], have to have a car, can't be without a car to collect this legal product. Hv. There's nothing to worry about. If she doesn't worry about it, how can she be snogging? A senator believes that competition is evil in this matter, the risk that the grocery store will raise prices, and so forth? That's what I'm talking about. So a senator would not also say that it is all right to put down the Syndicate for competition by the wicked?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u68	A respectable president. Like what? A senator is not well aware of a competitive market in the country. In case of a moment. A senator is so worried that there is not a liquor store in smaller villages, and it will be transformed by this bill. Today, this bioavailability is present. There is no competitive market in these parts of the country. They know why. Councilmen like what? paritaprevir I'm fine with Tot Björn Einarsson. You can talk like this here in the capital area where you're going to have some special stores and a few good friends will probably make money. But this is not going to happen entirely. Let us refer to the equation in a different context than the equation in this matter. [[The president calls.]] Let us keep that in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by describing my pleasure by being so low in the pecking order here in the Senate that I have not been assigned to any responsibility like being a chairman of any committee so that it can be put in this case that it is incompatible with my role to be its carrier. Actually, I'm the first vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee, so I don't doubt that it will somehow be possible to find out that these two roles don't go together. But in my speech, I'm going to talk about a man, an imaginary man. I'm gonna call him Viggó. Viggó has passion for Italian wine. He knows a lot about Italian wine. He imports Italian wine. He would like to be able to sell Italian wine to people. He would want to open a store in his neighborhood, call it Viggó's liquor store, and own his company of customers, a group of people who come to him to buy Italian wine from him. I'm thinking about a woman. I'm gonna call her Pálína. Pálína also has passion for Italian wine. She would like to buy them from Viggó, go into his shop, and ask: What do you have for me today? Do you think it fits the lasagna? Okay. Thank you. See you later. I know people like Pálína. I'm people like Pálína. If I could replace alcohol law in Iceland for law and country tradition, Italy, Greece or Spain, I would. I'm not Viggó, but I know people like Viggó, people who would choose to sell wine to people like Pálína. Despite the legal nature of alcohol, not ordinary but legal consumers, and despite the fact that Viggó and Pálína are adults, these transactions are not permitted. No, if Viggó wants to get in touch with a customer, he's got to go to the official agency. If Pálína wants to shop at Viggó, she will have to trade with this particular government agency. Perhaps people feel that this decrease in shopping freedom, employment freedom, and freedom of movement is minor and trivial in the large context of things. I understand that. But that's a impairment anyway. Yeah, it's a impairment. People may feel that they are worth it, but they may not laugh at it. Admit that there is a decline and acknowledge that it is, in fact, a great deal. It is not a challenge or a condition. It is not being said: You must have a hairnet or wash your hands or take a course or pay a high permit or send in... No, Viggó's chances are not being undermined to run this liquor store, it's being forbidden to do so. It is also against all who would do business with him. Here's a wave of polls. Yet, they show that a good number of people, 303/40%, would do well to buy alcohol elsewhere than in the State. We can't ignore it, pretend there's a few interests in this room because it's not. WeViggó never get a chance. They just say, "You're about to sell alcohol to kids. " Yet, it does not have to be. When Washington State took a step, the consumption of children did not increase, and the availability of children did not increase either. If people are concerned that it will happen, there are certainly ways to help them cope. I admit that I am relatively far in freedom in these matters, no doubt in many areas beyond this bill. At the same time, though, I do not find it very difficult to swallow various governmental actions in an effort to overcome the anxieties of others. I feel, however, that after some visit to the rocking house, those who bring in wine and those who make beer will be able to invite people to buy it. People should get a chance. People may laugh at this, say that Costco or Bronson had already made some friendly, warm wine peddler. The weakness of my language may well be found. But it's not a joke, is it? Hypocrite, legislation and its implementation are bad. The Kingdom, what does it do? It opens its camp where access is best. It's a cruel advertisement. It's with a counselor. People come to the State and say, "I'm gonna eat chicken and get drunk. Then someone comes and says, "Yeah, here's that version of the drug that's best fit for it. I think that's okay, to some extent. I even think it gives my life a color. But if we're in this game at the same time, I think we should let others be in it too, by the same rules, under the same supervision. That's what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I'm a little worried about Viggó and Pálína. I'm even suggesting that they get together and go out on a date somewhere if they want to make such a good relationship. I'm also a little worried that if Viggó really wants to sell Pálína alcohol in an ice cream truck, then she wants to go for a ride. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek forbids it. And if Viggó wants to sell Pálína liquor in a hot dog car to track his hot dog along, to improve their close relationship, then he likes to. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek forbids Viggó. With all his high reasoning here on freedom to action, the hypocrisy of the State, the hypocrisy of the law, the exact same argument about this bill is valid. A senator and his associates, who suggest that certain parties be specifically forbidden to sell alcohol. I've been saying in my talk about this bill that we all believe that alcohol should hold rules, some boundaries. We want to sell it only to someone who has reached a certain age. We do not want to sell it at all times of the day. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek doesn't want Viggó selling alcohol to Pálína if Viggó wants to buy alcohol at 3:00 in the morning, it wants to go. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek doesn't. It's about where the line is. The less air - catching dramatic talks, though they are neat, that we put in this chair, the more we discuss the problem, which is about each one of us wanting a limit, the more effective and deeper conversation. Why does it want to be? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek's rights are like this on Viggó's friend's rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u71	A respectable president. I thank you for this excellent answer, even though I do not necessarily like the logic in it. There is a degree of calmness when it comes to alcohol - based views. I've decided a row of possible access to a liquor bill that I might be comfortable with. They all come from the fact that alcohol is sold in special stores, not in other products, and to keep the arrangement as it is in the continent, as I described here in my speech, as Italy, where alcohol is sold fairly freely in most stores. You can always pull to ask why you are not there to go more in this direction or a little more in the other direction. I'm willing to look at some of the updates on it. The gesture in this matter is, and I think there's a certain degree of difference, that I find the nature of whether we completely ban people or whether we're going to say, "Yes, we're going to allow you to do this job, but here are the conditions we're setting. I think it's pretty easy to see that there's a certain difference. If I had to make a decision on my own, I guess I wouldn't see the point where people could buy liquor in a hot dog's dick. I don't think it's an option to allow it or ban it. You can always pull to and fro and ask why it is inside a bill like this. Like I say, I declare that I could accept a bill from here on out. This bill meets that requirement, but entries in one other direction would not change my attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u72	A respectable president. I'm sorry to cause you what you're doing. A senator disappointed from this public speaker; in fact, I know a few senators in this room who have a stronger opinion of what others say in this chair than exactly what they say. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek. I'll do my part to try to meet his expectations. I just agree with what. Senator. The reason I give these objections against a speech is why. A senator is that I thought it was a question. A senator is a little airy. It is in the process of painting this as a matter of freedom and progress, but those against it, for whatever reason now, as followers of hypocritical lawyers. I don't think of this sort of compromise, so I'm going to join the class that's trying to criticize someone else's lawsuit here, because in the end it's about where we'd like to set the limits that all of us, each one of us who has expressed us here in this chair of speech, would like to have. [[The president calls.]] Where do we want to put them? It is not some form of open freedom and liberalism, a verse of hypocrisy and predestination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u73	No. They are not necessarily opposites, the concept of liberality on the other hand, and the idea of using a more useful one. Sometimes they can go together and sometimes they don't. But you cannot argue that although you are generally ready to step in a certain direction, you are not consistent unless you always want to eliminate all bans. I'm quite ready, as I have said before, to examine various limitations and restrictions on sales of that substance as well as on the eons. A senator wants one too. However, the only way to limit the use of alcohol for a small sale in a government agency is not one of the ways in my toolbox.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u74	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to the occasion, including The report contains strong statements. For example, an influence on the competitive position of the trader on the corner is expressed, claiming that increasing the freedom of a retail sale will be equal to that of the trade trader on the whole country as the Wall merchant has a better chance of playing competition, although it may be difficult for him to compete directly with the price of alcohol. So I'd like to ask you, which one? A senator does not believe that it violates the order of justice, as is the situation today, that people are not allowed to buy alcohol at the same price wherever they live and have to pay more for it, as is the case with a lot of food and service already, even if the government tries to meet it with measures at transport costs, etc.? Does he feel that this is not to be produced? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that this could lead to the control of the major companies in the market, to get alcohol at a much lower price, and to be able to obtain commissions as less members of the country, and to reduce the risk of developing alcohol? Then I want to call attention to other things that I feel are hypocritical and arrogant, by permission of a president: A limited selection access is better than access, or access, that is difficult or costly. So this is about a special impact on the country. I really don't like this phrase because I think it's humiliating about the country. I also wondered when it's said an effect on other retail products that here says this will probably be a decomposition. There's a lot of claims here. It's speculation. I'm asking why. A senator whether he is convinced that this is the way he is, or if he can offer some solider evidence that this is only a speculation that is presented. Does he have anything to do with this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u75	A respectable president. Of course, it is not possible to say what will happen in the future, whether for distribution or how anything will affect a store. Yet, in view of the experience of other nations, we can certainly do so. So alcohol is a warning that it has to support smaller shops. Let me explain why. Alcohol is often a product that buys without an enormous amount of preparation, if you can put it that way. People want to drink alcohol, and they go to some store that is nearby and buy it there without perhaps giving excessive attention to the prices at the time. The comparison between Copenhagen and the other side of the alley in Malmö makes this impression easy. Little shops are more prominent in Copenhagen's streets than in Malmö because people go to small stores to buy alcohol. This guarantees the business site for other products. This is known. Regarding the senator's general concern about how this will affect the selection and access of other places, I can only assume this in the light of the countries that have done this. The latest example is most likely Washington State in the United States, who actually legalized other substances at the same time, so there may be some other effect there. There, the number of shops increased so that access was improved, and there were no significant changes in bioavailability in the more distributed areas. I have compared this with Denmark and other similar places. But now I'm running out of time, so I can't go to it unless I get more time later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u76	Madam President. Thank you. This is for a senator. Interestingly, he speaks of the experiences of other nations. I wanted the carriers to take advantage of it when it comes to other research on human health and such. These are big cities, but we're talking about scattered settlements, including the population of 500-◯800, that's what I am. ... toreauth. There are some statements here that the senators cannot confirm, as if the approval of the bill would have a good effect on the country area, that is claimed. On the other hand, I insist that the senators are unable to confirm this. I'd like to ask the senator if he studied studies as a student of the University of Bifröst in 2014 on the social effects of free alcohol sales in Iceland. Their results are melancholy, with comparable results from a study published by the Swedish Public Health Organization in 2008. Its effect in Swedish society was examined if government efforts at liquor sales were taken away and sold alcohol at grocery stores. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of a master essay Ari by Matthíasson's son, son of 2010. I'd like to ask the senator, because he quotes access, whether he knows the effect on human health in the countries he was talking about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u77	A respectable president. There is as much to say that this increases its bioavailability in the region, which I think it does, and it can be said of its effect on human health. The experience of other nations can be considered. Those who oppose this issue have no difficulty taking advantage of the results of public health research on something that can happen to make speculation about what will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u78	What studies do you have?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u79	These are also speculations. [["And the country's settlement?"]] Since it's been done... [[Foreground on scientific...?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u80	Row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u81	Since this has been done, there has been a positive influence on shops, both in scattered areas as well as in others. Of the studies listed here, I shall admit that I have studied only Matthíasson's Ari. I have also studied the report published by the Swedish ATSVR on the potential effect of displacing monopoly on alcohol, but I have not studied a specific study of the students in Bifrost, quoted at the outset. [[Swedish National Health Organization.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u82	Madam President. I honestly don't know who's more freakish, Viggó or what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, who's kind of excited about statements here in the General's deliveries without any support in any way except perhaps by his own mind. The state's private sale of a little liquor, according to the nature of the matter, involves restrictions. Many alcohol stores and opening hours are limited, and the store does not engage in commercial activities, even though the benefits of the liquor sale have been watered for financial gain. On the contrary. paritaprevir The Pawel Bartoszek claims in the General's deliveries that even now the government's clients offer no alcohol, no discounts, and the state does not say cruel things like that. A senator said earlier because there is no ordinary consumer product here. There's alcohol here. Hence, the nature of the matter remains restricted. I'd like to ask you why. To the fact supported by a well-explored study and results and other: If alcohol dealing is given free, the pressures of law - enforcement and health - care systems will be greatly increased, as statistics from Denmark and elsewhere show, by the costs of the taxpayers. What do you think? A senator on this increase in stress and cost? Is this in harmony with the emphasis on reform when it comes to public health, adding to the pressures of health professionals and health care professionals and law enforcement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u83	A respectable president. I don't know what to call it when shopping ATVR advertises: Wait until you're 20. Is that not some kind of motivation for consumption? You don't talk about tobacco in this way. People do not advertise tobacco in this way: Wait until you're 18 years old, people don't. It is all right to drink alcohol after you are 20 years of age. Those who know something about advertising know that when you see the brand, you create the mental connection. As a result, you prefer to buy that brand. How does this affect the case of a liquor store? What products sell a liquor store? Yes, it sells wine, making them mind - bonding and thereby increasing their consumption. There's a mention of restrictions here. Admittedly, it is a form of restrictions for the State to practice the trade of alcohol. I've said that I'm quite ready to look at some restrictions on selling alcohol. A consideration of the bill at the side of the current legislature often places greater restrictions on alcohol sales than on existing ones. [[With the people.]] The senator can examine the law on the side of the bill and see that there may have been more restrictions. If a person wants to examine it, he may need to place even more restrictions. But there is more restriction because we have somehow put our confidence in the fact that this is in the hands of the State and thus no longer have to worry about being sold next to another consumer product, which is often left on the land. I don't have much time to answer the question about the pressures on the health system, but I restate on what I say: I don't object to all steps that reduce alcohol consumption, but I think it's a step to put the sale only into the government's hands as something that isn't in my tool box, as I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u84	Madam President. I'm sorry if it happened. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek cannot answer how he feels about increased health and law enforcement pressures with increased access to alcohol because it is part of the core of this case, i.e. The availability of alcohol is being increased by national health costs as well as by increasing the pressures on these professions. Because of what? A senator will be talking about free competition and freedom, and he feels that the rest of us who are not on the same page that he is full of hypocrisy would want to ask: If he is not more likely to break down the current flag in a small market than to give free alcohol into the market market of food stores, which are truly fair and have no or small ideas of free competition. A senator to do? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u85	A respectable president. According to certain values in which you focus primarily on human health and no other matter, I see how you come to the conclusion that this is wrong. But I just admit that it's not my only or most important point when I decide what to be allowed and what to be banned. For the few, I believe that this case would help to increase competition because it has been shown that trade is more productive where this arrangement is located. [[Up front.]] Today, this is the type of arrangement, e.g. that it is decided to open a liquor store in a small well. Why? What stores are there? Of course, the biggest shops there are already there, and there is no transparency in where the Kingdom stores are located.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u86	Increased bioavailability?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u87	- President? [[The president calls.]] This arrangement would make it easier for little people who run small and medium-sized stores to receive this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u88	Madam President. First, I want to congratulate the transporter for its success. In a new survey, we find that opposition to the fact that the government's sole drug supply of alcohol has grown substantially since last year. Thank you very much for the performance of the bill's carriers. It has reached 58% but was 52% at the same time last year. I hope we can discuss this frequently in the years that follow, so we can see further opposition. I think the debate that has taken place here at the Generals scene and out in the community is giving it back. It is quite remarkable to see that it is divided between political parties, although it may not be as if you had insisted in advance. I expect the matter to be discussed in particular at the immediate meeting of the Independence Party, where I expect independents of the Seltiannes will come in strong after their fine resolutions against the bill recently. It is remarkable, though, that the majority of the voters of all categories are opposed to the fact that strong alcoholic beverages go to camp, all classes. Then there is more when it comes to beer and wine. It is a joy to have the opportunity to discuss this subject, for various aspects of the discussion have been made available to develop it, moving it forward. We can see that viewpoints differ considerably more than would be expected from the bill's report. I can mention, for example, the effect on small mudhouses that are considered to be highly positive in the report but then, as the discussion has presented itself, it has been found that their owners certainly do not agree that this is necessarily a good thing for this diversity of alcohol, which is interesting in itself. I've been sitting here for ten years at a council, and this case has been on the program several times, and I've been having discussions, but opposition to it in the community has increased more than that in the past. We have also discussed it quite often during these ten years here at the General Assembly that it is important to listen to what the professionals say. That is why I also find it interesting to read in my report that the bill does not include suggestions for changing alcoholism. If we listen to what professionals in that field say, i.e. The people who are involved in giving reviews of alcoholism to the General Assembly - I'm referring to health professionals, surgeons, public health professionals, nurses, doctors - all of them are reviews of them in one way. They counter the bill on the grounds that it involves significant changes in the alcohol policy of Icelandic society. What's that policy been? Yes, it has been trying to limit access to alcohol, since alcohol is not like other consumer products. Therefore, it is a strange message if the Allied Congress of Iceland would, with all the knowledge and knowledge that has been placed before us by these professionals, agree to move alcohol into the grocery store, which not only increases access to alcohol but also sends the message, despite the fact that alcohol is specifically boxed by it, that alcohol is like any other consumer. We can consider this when we consider what the surgeon referred to in his homepage, where various studies are cited. I've heard about what I've been following in the fine discussions here - about many very good things, and good things - that we can't necessarily compare ourselves with other countries. But I still don't think Iceland is anything much different from other countries. I think we're all very much alike across the border. And interesting to see to make a drinking habit in the North countries where it has been restricted to government liquor stores - which so far have been in four of the five northern countries - i.e. Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland - for example, has been considerably less than in Denmark, where it has the highest level of alcohol consumption in Europe. If we just take this into account, this is a very interesting scientific conclusion. We have seen quite a lot of research from the United States, where we see strong evidence that excessive consumption of alcohol is increasing following the privatization of alcohol sales, since government management through access is much more effective in reducing alcohol consumption than education and prevention, suggested in the bill to increase. Why do I say that? Yes, I actually base it directly on studies that are also referred to by a field physician from the World Health Organization as saying that strong restrictions, not only concerns about opening time, but the mind that alcohol is not like any other consumer products, are far more effective than preventative measures. When we discuss this, it is very important that we face these tests and say: "Okay, well, if this were approved, it would probably mean a lot to us. There's been a witness here for Washington. According to a report I was reading about that wonderful state, it is predicted that during six years of free drinking, there is an increase of 48% in alcohol consumption. From the United States, we have a report that states that alcohol consumption is generally 123/45% lower than that of privateised countries. All right, we'd like to increase the amount of alcohol on the contrary to the WHO's advice, which has set the goal of reducing alcohol consumption by 10% before 2025. Then Iceland is going to start a program to improve alcohol consumption. There'll be a story to the next town, Madam President, if it's our health policy we're going to run here. It is remarkable that, of course, there is always evidence against everything. Here people say: Well, it's practical, practical for consumers to be able to buy alcohol in the same place as other products. Economics. Some even call it freedom. But I can't think of, and therefore agree with philosopher Róbert H. Haraldsson's son, who has a fine argument that selling alcohol at grocery stores can't be about individual freedoms, that, of course, it's about freedom of shopping, i.e. free people to shop with anything. But when it comes to individual freedom, the government's private sales will become alcoholized to cut the individual's freedoms. Not unless we believe that in Sweden freedom of the individual is impaired, we agree with those who want to make a great deal of the age of terror that exists in Sweden when freedom and human rights are due. Of course not! We see that the same thing applies to a state in Canada or the United States; we are not talking about a lack of freedom, although there are clear limits to the availability of alcohol. You see, liberal communities build some restrictions on shops and especially on alcohol, since it is not ordinary consumer products. As scientific research takes place, this product, alcohol, becomes apparent. OECD has provided a report on the cost of alcohol consumption at all not limited to alcoholism or so - called alcoholism, which, of course, is a terrible cognition of alcohol consumption, as well as at all other health costs, cirrhosis, high social costs, traffic accidents; when we consider to form a fatal accident in the OECD countries, alcohol is found to be a major cause. Alcohol consumption is considered to be the fifth cause of disease and death within the OECD state, according to the same 2013 report. We are dealing with a bill that, while otherwise speaking, affects the nation's drinking policy. In fact, I don't understand the statement in a paper with the bill that it did not defend alcoholism. Of course, this is a community alcohol policy. Then we must wonder when we hear the Icelandic professions mentioned earlier, when we read reports from the World Health Organization, when we read OECD reports and see that it is just being prepared, for example. in this OECD report I mentioned here, a assessment of how to limit access to alcohol, to prevent the costs of excessive alcohol consumption within society. Because OECD is not necessarily considering these matters just based on health issues, but especially from the cost of drinking in OECD countries. We've talked about it here at a council meeting. This article discussed trust at the World Council earlier today. I am one of those who joined in accepting a special conclusion that we should be more careful at the General. I'm still in the process that we can do a lot better than we've done so far. I'm sorry. All of us may have some responsibility for this. But part of what was discussed in that conclusion was that it was very important to listen to what a professional would say so that when we discuss matters related to community alcoholism, we must listen to them. Those who agree that unless the government's private sale on alcohol, they would like to draw it up as if it didn't matter whether there was an increase in consumption or not because it was just about freedom, and I mentioned earlier that I did not believe that people's individual freedoms are restricted to certain limits on business. It would cut free shopping, not individual freedom, and I quoted Róbert Haraldsson. I'd like to mention another example that I actually referred to the last time I gave a talk on this subject. I just thought it was such a good example that I'm going to repeat it here. It's a pleasure to the council. You see, I listened to this psychiatrist, David Nutt, who came here a few years ago, and I discussed the criminal abuse of drugs. He has not hesitated to have opinions that are often unpopular. He has, in fact, pointed out that when we examine alcohol, many of the substances we usually call harder drugs cause much less health damage than alcohol. However, he has been speaking about the crime of drugs, the fact that the State is dealing with the state's severely impaired surveillance of such agents. He was asked if the Icelanders should not privatize alcohol sales in the light of his known liberal views of drugs. And he said, Not at all. Icelanders should firmly stick to the present arrangement, thus limiting the harmfulness of alcohol. On the other hand, the Icelanders should consider taking a much more liberal course in how we handle drugs so that society will support those who have such problems rather than punish them. He said, "The damage of the other, i.e. On the other hand, if you cut off a government's private sale on alcohol, you can become unconvinced. And this is one of the main advocates of liberal attitudes when it comes to drug - related issues and how we deal with drug abuse. In many ways, I agree with what David Nutt says. You see, before we can take this case over, we have - and I expect this case to happen. The General and Education Committee, but it's as good a place as home. The welfare committee is not just about how alcohol sales are handled in Iceland. It's about huge health issues. When we discuss changing the arrangement to buy alcohol, we cannot overlook the fact that this will increase the amount of alcohol consumption. I can't see in the bill's report that a full study of how much it will increase has been done, though we have various research from other countries, from now on, as mentioned earlier, by 12% to 40%. Has the cost been measured what this will mean? Isn't it normal that we have those numbers available? If this case should be pointed to why. The General and Education Committee is now suggesting that this case be referred to as well. The welfare committee and the request for her views so that we can get all these analyses straight before we take over 2. ... aboutit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, agrees with her comments on the importance of discussing the matter. The General welfare Committee. That's what I mean. A welfare committee sent a review of the matter to what effect. The General and Education Committee, as has been done at least during the last two Parliaments, has been implemented at the Council. Now that I've been at the council for almost four years, this is the third time, I remember, which is presented at that time. I had just put my eyes into what I saw. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir says that opposition to the bill has increased at that time. I can agree with her statement that alcohol is not like other consumer products and the importance of listening to professional words, i.e. A surgeon, the Cancer Society, the Children's Orchestra, and other members who have warned against accepting this bill. There have been a number of comments in the discussion, including The fact that we're going to approve the bill of speeches at the General Assembly, we're going to have some kind of fear-mongering. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's comments on the above words and what they say about the reviews these professionals have sent away. Does she not agree that it is very important to discuss these matters in this discussion and to accept them in the material progress of the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her objection to her speculations about how I feel about that presentation. Now I haven't been here in the audience under all this discussion, I say so. But if you have suggested that those who contradict the public health bill have a panic disorder - I named the World Health Organization, I called the surgeon general, OECD. I can't quite imagine these people getting scared. But I am sure that those who pointed out the dangers of smoking back then were no doubt accused of panic. Those who insisted on putting seat belts in cars, that was, in fact, extremely burdensome for car producers of their time - that has surely been called panic. Somewhere I read that the operation to put seat belts in cars and the need for seat belts would be what would have been delivered most of the traffic security. But fear propaganda has no doubt been called. I think we need to keep an eye on this subject. As I mentioned earlier, those who are followers of this bill give evidence, economic logic, and such. However, they cannot be overlooked by their superior health experts or as some form of terror. We cannot do this in a more objective discussion at the General Assembly. As a result, we must insist that this matter be specifically considered in the case of the council. This issue is not about the freedom of shopping in order to sell alcohol like any other product. This issue is about a fundamental change in alcoholism that affects every Iceland. Alcohol does more than harm a person who drinks it. Social consequences are also immense. I'm sure we'll get this case out of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer. Hv. A senator spoke here, including for traffic safety and the figures we've seen from the OECD countries that alcohol driving increases with increasing access to alcohol. A paper with the bill and the bill itself suggests that the amount of alcohol poured into a public health fund will increase from 1% to 5% by law, in order to work on prevention in this field. I would like to point out that in recent numbers, since December last year, drunk driving has increased substantially here. It's been a long time since we've seen these big numbers. Does it not, and does it not seem strange to her, that there are only two years in the bill that is supposed to bring about the increase in alcohol - driving, as well as other factors that we need to deal with? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u92	Madam President. Yes, it is. No matter what this bill, much propaganda has been promoted against drunken driving. But this does not change the fact that, if we look for Britain, alcohol sales have increased, there is a significant increase in alcohol abuse. I think that's the exact tip of the dog. A senator said that this is a short period of time. All these analyses are to be terminated and the experience of other nations in this regard is also to be considered. I say clearly that we can learn from other nations in this matter, as well as from other peoples, and we should consider it when other nations in OECD are looking for ways to limit access to why we are going in the opposite direction here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u93	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking the senator where she's from and where she figures that drinking alcohol is predicted to increase by 48% in the state of Washington. I ask of sheer curiosity, because the figures I've seen have been around 13%, but the number 48 comes from the cumulative median of many studies where these cases have been examined. I'll call for it, and if the senator's not clear around here, she'll probably be able to get it to me in some other way. The World Health Organization was mentioned here. In fact, I found the interesting part of a talk. Rather than directly related to the contents of this matter, the senator quoted Davids Nutts's view of drugs. It must be remembered that unfortunately, the World Health Organization has not always been perfectly right about everything. We'll have to, for example. acknowledging that the results of the global toxicity policy over the past few decades are some of the results of the view presented by the Agency and then at all other locations. I'm not saying everything is wrong that this institution will say sooner and later, but I would point out that sometimes one can fall into a certain course, then everyone else jumps on the train, and the result will not necessarily be desirable. I'd like to ask them, "How long is it?" A senator prepared to follow David Nutt in these thoughts? What would she want to be like in these matters? She'd like to be like the State of Washington, for example. Portugal?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The projections I witnessed to the state of Washington are taken from the National Public Health Board report where this is foretold. As mentioned in my talk, this is not really an expansion, and it is like a whale. A senator mentions it as a memory, at least So far. What's interesting, though, is in what I've read about the state of Washington, as shown in a report on a land surgeon's homepage since 2014, which is quoted, since it is very early. A senator made it a subject of earlier conversation, but I could not respond to it, that the big shopping chains made a lot of money at the changes made but not less shops. That is a thought - provoking point. . i.e. That large business chains such as Costco grew, while smaller camps could not compete with them when it came to an alcoholic offering. So the question is, what will be the variety if we take the argument, which I did not, in fact, make up the subject here? WHO: I'm not saying that she's always right, but I think we have a pretty good collection of experts there. And the reason I mentioned David Nutt is that in this case there are so different people, the World Health Organization and David Nutt, who have been at odds with the Agency in various matters. It's so interesting, though, that both sides agree on one thing, that we should not cancel the government's private sales on alcohol. These parties agree that the arrangement we have here is designed to limit access to alcohol and thus can be an enormously important control device to reduce alcohol consumption. That's why I named him first. A senator wondered that I had referred to him. That's exactly because I think it's important that we look at different people, that we not only mention some single big truth in the case but also look at those who have been criticized for that great truth and what they say. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to the second thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u95	A respectable president. Hv. A senator keeps me on edge by going to answer the question in a second answer I asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u96	A little bit of tension.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u97	I'll wait up. Little to respond to some of the points just mentioned: Róbert H. Haraldsson mentioned in the context of the fact that it does not directly involve personal freedom, which allows people to sell alcohol. It has to do with a somewhat different view of personal freedom. The country where there is more in the hands of the government, where the entire grocery store is, for example. In the hands of the State, but men can always buy all the groceries, in my opinion, the country is not a very big person's freedom. Regarding the trades mentioned here in the state of Washington, however, the network of special shops was formed and the facility was selected as no less than the existing government stores, just to mention that. But I can't wait till the second half of the counter comes by. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u98	Madam President. Only in terms of drug crime, I am among the ones that I have not formed an opinion of which country exactly I want to look like or what implementation. I'm not an expert on it, but of course I'd like to put myself in it. But I agree with the principle that we should be heading there and that we have shared in signing the challenges of that subject. That's what I can say. A senator waiting to hear those answers Only about freedom. It is also important that we listen to professionals. I find it sobering when we discuss freedom that we listen to those who have studied the concept of what most, don't we? So I think it was important that we wondered what it really means for the individual freedom to go to a special store to buy alcohol and not be able to buy it at a food store. That argument has been suggested by Róbert H. Haraldsson of the philosopher. I've heard some things before. Senators disagree with him, but I have not yet seen much controversy about it in the field of my teachers. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be good to observe that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speeches and answers. In fact, I find it interesting to hear that she has not heard a lot of debate over the field teaching what freedom is and in the context of the fact that John Stuart Mill himself began by discussing limitations in personal and private habits and whether it harmonizes with the values of freedom. It's going to hit the inside. A senator made a distinction between freedom of trade and freedom of individual. It is an important difference, but it is part of individual freedom to be allowed to shop legally against certain conditions. That's not to me the main argument of government isolation. I think it's unnatural to have a small sales sale in the hands of the government and that it's illegal for others to shop in legal goods rather than just set certain conditions. First of all, I don't think the public health issues that are so often stated in this case, because they're the only ones who come to see us focus on government policy, government bans and State dedication to direct personal consumption. It is a matter of individual freedom, of private consumption, of alcohol consumption. A senator says that there will be an increase. Is it not part of the individual's freedom to decide how much alcohol a person drinks? If we begin to shape a course in terms of reducing it, are we not at the same time exerting ourselves against the freedom of the individual? Hv. A senator praised a series of polls. At one time, 64% of Icelanders were opposed to allowing the beer. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have come, like her colleague. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, commending it and using it as a reason not to sell beer in general. I wondered what it would be like today, if we in general believe that the majority of the items do not necessarily have the right to control the private consumption of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u100	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I've heard of John Stuart Mill as a boy. A senator mentions. In his famous book, he made it quite clear that there must be limits on freedom, especially when it comes to reducing the freedom of others, right? Of course, governments must always have the option to limit the freedom we speak here so as not to impair the freedom of others. Hv. A senator doesn't consider public health to be important, i.e. that each individual should be able to decide how much alcohol he drinks at the appropriate expense for the taxpayers. This is reducing their freedom, is it? The consumption of alcohol increases with social costs for those who have to become intolerant to alcohol. We can look to data that can also be found on the land - wide home page of the surgeon's office, when it comes to violence, especially on the part of sexual violence, how much of this violence is being committed under the influence of alcohol. Yeah, it's a really big deal. When we are talking about alcohol consumption and the freedom to drink alcohol to as much as we want, we must also consider its effect on the freedom of others. That's where I think we're going. There must be a senator. I heard why. A senator agreed with me that we too must make a distinction between the freedom of shopping and the freedom of the individual. I'm sure that argument won't help. A senator too to agree. Or he thinks, so I'm going to throw it back at what. A senator, that the state has nothing to do with the shape of public health policy and certain limits to the freedom of its citizens? For example, when is it time for a car to drive? Or alcohol? Or what is it that we've discussed here and agreed on, the government here and in other countries, to ensure a public interest? Of course, there is a limit to my freedom that every time I get in a car, I have to put on my seat belt. [[The president calls.]] But I think that, first of all, I have to get this into a different answer to respect the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u101	A respectable president. Drinking alcohol does not interfere with the freedom of others. I may cut off the freedom of others by resorting to violence, sexual violence, or other forms of alcohol abuse, but I find it a very high idea to suggest that there is some inevitable consequence of alcohol abuse. It just doesn't go out like this. [[# It's like it's like it's... #]] - No, you didn't say that, but I think it's important to make the distinction that it's an independent decision, whether taken under the influence of alcohol or not, that it's not a direct result. There is a sharp difference between bone and indirect consequences in this context. I'm sorry, I don't have time to review everything we were talking about. However, regarding a seat belt: Yes, there is evidence to limit the freedom involved in a common system, the use of common systems, and what directly affects others. We have specific conditions for using common road systems and such. I think it's different than setting conditions for people with their alcoholic beverages, which in itself are their private affairs. That's what I'm trying to distinguish. And, yes, I believe that shopping is a part of individual freedom, but just because it is part of a common system that we participate in is natural to place some restrictions on it rather than to forbid it. [[The president calls.]] But the consumption isn't part of it, it's just a matter of individual freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator, of course, is not a lot of time. But I didn't say, and will not be put into my mouth, that violence is the inevitable consequence of the use of alcohol. But I pointed out that when figures of sexual violence are viewed, alcohol is far more often than just a matter of history. This is the case when OECD makes its point that alcohol is the fifth leading cause of disease and death in the world. Then we must wonder. This is not just about alcoholism; this is about health problems that we all pay for, for example, in our community. That's why my French friends are just admiring the fact that we have this limited access here, including... correspondent in France What is a French community not paying for liver damage? And we can see that in these social problems too. In fact, for children to grow up in an alcoholic home, there is a great loss of freedom. [[The president calls.]] I think we can stretch and pull this concept for a long time in this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u103	A respectable president. I'm gonna go before I have my case to set two guidelines on what I'm not gonna talk about. I'm going to try not to talk out on my own, as I think it is too often this discussion because I don't feel that it's about how I feel when I walk past the liquor store in Eðistorg, or how I've felt when I live in countries where alcohol is access to alcohol in other ways than Iceland. We don't write songs from our personal experiences, but from the beyond, I hope, many of the experiences that embrace a slightly larger group and remain the whole nation. The other thing that I'm not gonna talk about is that here we're discussing a small business that doesn't deserve to be as important as it is. Yes, it is a small matter, but there is a ideological conflict in what you immediately see in the introduction to the report. You can often see the primary goals and purpose of a prime project when you read such texts. This bill says, by permission of the President: It's not the State's job to do a little sale... Here's the knife in the cow. We simply disagree on that, both in our community and in this hall, what exactly is the role of the government. Some in this room favor the privatizing of a part of the government, especially the one making a profit, and it seems to be a business of liquor. We others do not think so. Although it is not a matter in itself, it is a deeply conflicting line in politics and in the community. I just think it's fine that the case will get a place in the conversation it's been given. Then I will turn my song into a cross, and speak only from myself, considering how little and insignificant this is because I care a little bit about the matter. I would say that this is what marks the beginning of my involvement in politics. We remember a number of events during the winter hours of the fall and the crevice of society climaxed, when this case was scheduled. I don't know if I ever, either from this platform or from anywhere else, why. A former senator, Sigurður Kári Kristjánsson, was thanked for his part in launching the pesky revolution. At least I want to thank him very much for making us hit on pots and pans in the East. I went on to get involved in politics in the left green, and then I ended up here as one of the first things I've had to deal with is this a good thing. Some aspects of the matter have been considered well. I don't necessarily intend to extend the discussion with them much, but we'll expect to thoroughly review the points of a global and educational committee where I'm sitting. But I would like to discuss just how science and research have been made from this talk on these matters. In this regard, people, supporters of the bill, have emphasized the importance of showing respect for differing opinions on the subject. I agree with that, as I said. There is a profound difference between us that often calls for a hot discussion, but we need to be able to do so without resorting to extremes. That is why I always find the same senators and talk about showing respect for each other's views as a form of terror, including the opposite. To speak down the oldest office in the United States, surgeon general, a host of health professionals, the World Health Organization, and the god knows what else. So I'll witness to what it's about. The official of the case. paritaprevir Teitur Einarsson, from his transmission address, he said, with the permission of a president: But also, it is often dangerous to put all human behavior under a simple statistical summary... Then he went on and pulled up this funny example because if we were just looking at the statistics about what we were, the human race, with a lot of testicles, we'd have one average testicle. Then he continued, with the permission of the president: At the end of the day, a statistical cuplet and a basket of such information will not be the outcome of this case. Shouldn't the information, Madam President, be in charge of big, important matters here at the Council? Now I don't know what they teach exactly at the University of Iceland, which gives it away. paritaprevir The Teitur Einarsson then empirical insight into the science of writing all the statistics about human health and alcohol only on one board, nor on the other, what honors certain other authorities, who have spoken of this as fear - inspiring. This is something we need to examine carefully. I think we both need to examine the studies that have been referred to and whether there are potential gaps in which we need to fill, but then we may also need to look at the discussion on science as a-- well, now I'm going to be afraid, I think it's a little less about how the U.S. Republicans talk about human climate change. When men speak of science and the fact that it's a shame, I think we should think only of what we're doing. There's another thing I'd like to consider, it's a government drinking policy that most of us would agree that this is such a smell to the other person, i.e. The commercial freedoms that people want to bring in by private access to ATVR. But the question arises, How does the conduct of government conventions and the conduct of government alcohol policy depend on the fact that only the State has a lot to say about how this policy is being carried out. Like what? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek did not mention in the current law on alcohol taking any time out of alcohol because governments have directed access to alcohol wherever alcohol is sold. There is no need for law in all that the State is doing and in harmony with its own policy. I ask myself, " Do I need a relatively simple change in the law of a store with alcohol enough to deal with the challenges of alcoholism? ' The increase in cost has been mentioned. Hv. porter, so I go back to him, Teitur Einarsson said he saw, for example. for example, a police would be watching the grocery store. How would it be possible to comply with the rules for e.g. Minimum age to buy alcohol? What kind of men would have to be added to the police, especially in the scattered areas, so we'll go back to them again? How many beers would have to do to meet the goals of each other? vehicles that do not increase the availability of alcohol for young people? So let me give you an example. There have been some medical issues, effects on law enforcement because of changes in consumption patterns. This is all that can be costing you. The bill then says that there will be no recession in government incomes, no significant recession, because much of the money the state has from a liquor store today is tied in either of the fees that will continue to be collected, alcohol tax, and worth tax and any other items that are imposed on the product. We have already seen stakeholders making themselves valid in the discussion. It appeared a week ago when the discussion began. Then the morning newspaper showed up an interview with a representative of Vifilfells, probably Coca Cola Iceland, who stated that the company had the authority for a number of types of types that would be considered public. At the same time, it was said that the reduction of this blessed drink price would have to be considered because it would be an inhibitory operation of those who were importing this product. I wondered how long we have to wait until here, at least once a year, the budget of alcohol is dropped, whether profit is undeniably for the private people who would have the sale in their hands. published by the Watch Tower Society's Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. It's like I don't say the same small thing that many people want to be. I even think it's a bigger case than transporters want to be, because there's more to this than just a clean, private development on ATVR. This is a variation of how the government controls alcohol, something I am, on the insides of my mouth. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson disagrees with the senator. I believe the government should control the consumption of this product, just as I believe that we should follow the advice of health experts and public health when they say that we should use a sugar tax to reduce the overfeeding of sugar foods, just as I believe the government should do most of the support of a healthy way of life. So we not only remind ourselves of the pressures on the health system but also reduce the suffering of individuals in the community. Yes, freedom is also free from unhappiness, sickness, and suffering.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi, meet a man for a fine, balanced speech here. However, I would like to forgive myself for these strutts about Trump who appeared here for the second time in this discussion, that we were rejecting science by being a follower of this bill. It's just not right. We are not rejecting empirical health status or the World Health Organization that drinking alcohol is likely to increase with this. We're just saying they don't have political authority over us. Our political ideologies are not determined by what institutions such as World Health Organization say. We might say, " That would be negative. ' But is it the State's responsibility to use its power to control people's consumption? That's the question. There's a big difference. Hv. A senator said we were rejecting empirical science. We are making a decision based on this empirical evidence. There's no disagreement about--yes, there's some disagreement about any present, but there's a big difference. For the rest, controlling people's consumption, we disagree. It's a matter of ideologies. I'm sorry that men are acting like their ideology is based something more on the information than we are because information in itself doesn't tell us anything about what to do. They just tell us some things about the numbers where we have to take a stand. I'm not saying we should use our authority here as members of Congress to direct people's consumption by authority. We're supposed to help people because they're unhappy with treatments and prevention and the like, as well. A senator came in. But there's only a moral difference between saying, 'If you're having a problem drinking, my friend, I'll help you, and saying, 'You can't drink alcohol,' you can't buy it here, my dear friend. I'm not addressing you. Pawel, no, Andrew. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, you're right. You're so alike. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u105	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to be named by members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u106	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is dying to be compared to Donald Trump, I understand that, for I compared no one to that man. I don't think I spoke of him in word either. I spoke of the U.S. Republicans who are denying human climate change, which are a group that has been involved in politics, much longer than the blessed president we support, the world. I'm sorry that the senator took to heart the details I brought to those who criticize science. Those words were not particularly directed against the wind. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, who I know is educated in empirical sociology, and I'm sure he'll be very good at all. The words I read here, however, were the word of the carrier. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, who said that it would be dangerous to bring all human behavior under a simple statistical summary. He, who used the terms empirical research as if it were shameful, stressed that statistical cups and bickering on the value of such information would not be the outcome in this case. I make comments to these things just as I make comments to people who say exactly the same things about human climate change. That's what I hear. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson won't. It might be suggested that they would sit together, the members, the transporters, and discuss this so that so so social scientist Viktor Orri Valgarðsson could tolerate lawyer Teitur Björn Einarsson only in empirical studies and show him that they are not as bad as the lawyer seems to think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u107	A respectable president. It was right next door. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said he didn't say anything about Trump, and I'm asking him to respect his use of it. It was more like my feeling that this movement that denies climate, which I don't think is anything like what we're saying. I also wanted to use this opportunity to convey the distinction I make between accepting empirical data and finding different results from them. That's what I'm talking about. Einarsson I'm sure I'd have given up a lot of that in another way, let's say. People have different reasons to be followers of this matter, as there are different reasons for opposing them. I don't think anything unusual about that. However, there is something to say that research in sociology is not a simple subject. It is very difficult to establish a causal relationship between a particular covariate and a covariate, since the effect varies greatly from social context and after implementation and change. In this context, e.g. The World Health Organization, the same report as the regularly quoted, published data showing that alcohol consumption is considerably higher in Central and Southern Europe than in northern Europe and its availability is much higher, at the same time as drinking society is much healthier and harmful to drinking. The results of research have been very different, as shown by this 44% figure. It is based on a pooled study and 17 studies that do not appear to be bioavailable that, with a large difference, only the quartiles are from 4% to 122%. This suggests that there are very different results depending on the study you are looking at and in the context of it. So it's not something. Under it, I'm going to pass over. paritaprevir "Björn Einarsson's tea, but in the same way, I've said before and still say that research indicates that the consumption will increase at least temporarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u108	Madam President. Now, naturally, it is tempting to turn my song into a cross and say that it was not a strudel, since it was a bad boy. A senator always tends to say what we say, what we say to him, but what we say sounds strange to me. paritaprevir Fortunately, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson says things not only differently but in the foundation of things other than what. paritaprevir Einar Teitur Einarsson and Björn did so in their delivery address and subsequent reply. I'm just gonna keep making a comment on the language he's making. the first official of the case. No matter how significant social research is, no matter how busy they are, research is better than just some gig, some butt pocketbook well - meaning lawyer bringing a lawsuit into the General Parliament. As a senator who is not a public health expert and not a medical expert, I need to rely on information and less like other senators talking down that information as some of the cups that can only be made fun of by talking about human testicles and other foolishnesss. I must admit, Madam President, I lost my face when I heard this nonsense coming out of my mouth. A minister of the case here a week ago, hoping that this will not be a sign of the discussion that will take place in the spring. It's not holes, it's just a sandbox.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u109	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a very good and pleasant talk. It is true that a talk is given. A senator says there is a profound disagreement on these matters in the Generals and in the whole society. In the discussion that has been very good, and in recent days, when we have been discussing this matter, there have been very different ideologies that focus on this discussion, and it is very important that we have this conversation. I agree with him that it's strange to hear that we, in the word of a health and sociology professional, sometimes refer to some kind of frightening propaganda. It is even more strange to hear it in the speeches of certain causes. Congress officials say that there is little available for medical and social statistics on these matters. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for example, did he look at the reviews of events in previous terms when these cases have been submitted? Has he examined the results of a professional in social and health science and information from trades and services and seen the differences in viewpoints presented in these reviews? Has he wondered when he has considered this interest or whether it is merely a different ideologies involved in the matter since the previous election season?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u110	Madam President. Yes, I've checked the reviews from the previous council. I don't want to call myself an expert in them, but I guess that's what I'm going to be after a discussion at the Committee here after the discussion. Of course you're wondering. Of course you're wondering whether -- no, I don't want to assume that people in this room are doing something, I'd much rather stick with that here we just have a different view of the role of the State. But it is clear who is celebrating these changes and who is not. The people who are happy that the government's patent drink will be taken away from me, most of them are the people who think good of the fire getting the sale to them and then will be able to strengthen their status at the small market in Iceland's grocery store. Those who are Greek on the case are about All others, all health care, public health, child - and family affairs, professionals and experts everywhere. We need to cover this thoroughly. We need to review this on both members of the Parliament, the members of the General and Education Committee, and the welfare committee, as well. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir is on, because this is a joint assignment. It would be a burden for the council not to keep both eyes on the welfare factors in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. First, I'd like to agree with the importance of cooperation. General welfare committees and what. The General and Education Committee on the implementation of these matters, for these issues certainly come on both committees. During his talk, the question arose. A senator on the importance of making a cost assessment of the impact of this bill. He likely quoted the words of a professional surgeon, surgeon, and other parties who spoke of accepting this bill that could result in greater social costs. At the same time, this case is at home. A welfare committee, as we discussed earlier. There we have a medical program for discussion. Is it not very important to discuss this matter with a conquistador to a health plan if this case will be approved and due to a cautionary surgeon? Does it not need to be examined at the same time as this council arrangement for increased funds to cope with the increased social costs? Then he witnessed. A senator in word. the candidate to whom the proposal was addressed, including ... thatin fact, even the police would be on the shoulders of the food store. If that's the plan - it must have been a rash way of saying so - don't you think it's necessary to take this part and somebody else into a law enforcement program? This would then be an increasing and new work done by the police if they were to cover sales at the local grocery store, a profession that is already under extreme stress every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u112	Madam President. Of course, this bill needs to be taken into account in the context of all the programs under the top limit. The minister of health because the consequences of these changes are very wide. In terms of social impacts and impacts on expenses, it also takes a lot of weight. It is not only the obvious impact on health care because of an accident if drunk driving, or on law enforcement in general, or on police because it also has to be a beer cop, but also a more subtle public health hazard, such as that there will be a percentage increase in the incidence of liver cancer as the nation's alcohol consumption increases by a certain percentage. There are a number of factors that need to be considered. Maybe we lost it. The top line of the case is that they should be the role of the police in keeping an eye on the sale, but someone has to. That will be a problem because we know what it's like to sell tobacco. The sales agents are way too weak. Sports checks carried out by a free partner organisation, e.g. in Hafnarfjörður, it has been found that all too often children under age are being handed tobacco over the counter. If government supervision is not properly concerned, how will it be about alcohol? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u113	Madam President. I wasn't in a council hall when this bill was submitted, was in a group country, and I've been thinking since I've been able to read why the bill was now submitted at the beginning of the council and the tour of a new government. There's plenty of time to do that later in the season. This is hardly a small matter, but it is premature now that something else is going on. There is something else to deal with, and much more to the situation in key issues that concern the public and the common people. I feel sad that I have to spend some time discussing this regardless of what other people think about it. You ask yourself why the bill is above your head, I don't know which time. It is about freedom, but rarely by the support of the bill on business interests. It also speaks of reforms, but rarely about profit from the same sources. When a person so blends it into individual freedoms and the freedom of work and the freedom of business, it looks like it's a matter of business, but it's not. Compared with other countries, there is also the thought - provoking comparison. Mediterranean countries are named with an age - old tradition, beer, and table wine. Iceland has a whole different story. It is much more similar to the history of nations, where the common drinking of alcohol was very limited until the last century or so. You often think about it: " Is it not a misuse of alcohol in these paradisaic countries that you often feel is not overabundant? Do these consumptions grow or are they reduced? Are there discussions about measures to reduce consumption? Do people worry about human health in those countries? I'm sure of it. I know both in Germany and in France, where this debate in the media and probably also at Congress. Here's about a bit of it. Every tenth citizen with some sort of drinking problem, I'm told. What would it be like there? Is that a bigger percentage or less ratio? Does anyone feel that it's enough? I think, based on the results we've achieved with this visitor, when I'm talking about alcoholism, we should listen to the U.S.A. when it comes to this bill and apply what that professional person says but make less of his own political convictions. They also discuss the beer, act as if it was some sort of similar argument or similar presentation, but then let's see what happened after the beer was allowed. Then, in a number of years, every year, alcohol consumption took place in a clean wine breath from four gallons [4 L] to seven gallons [7 L]. In fact, he has stopped there, but no doubt that increase has reduced the problem we have had with alcohol in Iceland. If there is a new wave, you can ask the carriers or supporters of the bill: Should we celebrate eight litres, or should we celebrate nine liters, or ten litres? Will no doubt the new wave have any negative effect? Public interest is clearly high in the minds of the public, since the polls we've heard show that a great deal of the nation wants something else here at the council than this matter. I think the growing public position is some kind of a warning to us about reevaluating our position at least. Those who support this matter. To science. People in general are a term often heard in these discussions, and no one dares belittle them, but they are eager to confuse the attitudes of those who hold fast to the importance of human health, if I have just heard in the language of the day. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, understand that individual freedom and public health. That's the best I heard. What about the increase in drug buy in public stores? Is that something we want? Would it be cutting an individual's freedom if we forbade it? Did I hear him talk about our common system of things? Isn't it the health system then? I think so. People's health science also exists. They're serious. It doesn't mean much to present statistics about one of mankind's averages because they're both men and women, as noted in a critical situation. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's at what point? A transferer, Teitur Björn Einarsson, when he proposed the bill. Of course, research, data, statistics, theories, and findings have to do with the well - being and well - being of an entire community. It's human health. They are to be taken as others rather than lightly, or they are to discuss something else in return. Madam President. People's hearts and arguments are not about me alone or on an individual basis. He's a liquor biller. It's not about whether I drink or not, whether I drink moderately, or if I'm physically threatening, even an alcoholic. This is about how consumption and its consequences are taken into account by some 400,000 human beings in this country and more if adults are included. Through scientific research and thinking, an informed decision can be made to make access to alcohol in the community. It's as simple as that. Then responsibility. The community's responsibility turns to all these people, the quarter million that I talked about. It is about our responsibility, and it is about the responsibility of each individual. When it comes to a subject that causes not only widespread social problems but also serious diseases, it is not default. There's supposed to be a condition of freedom. Part of it is limited access with the frightening word, impairment. I have a great science from Frontiers in Public Health, as the magazine called. This is an overview of the results of other studies and the relationship between alcohol bioavailability and violence. Three scientists study 87 scientific essays on such research in 12 countries. Today, countries are not just the United States or the Mediterranean. It's 12 countries. I'm sorry, I don't have any information about who they are. They find that there is a strong connection, or there is an apparent connection. And then it is the bioavailability itself, in 93% of cases, opening time 63% of events, and becoming 58% of cases. This is a solid link between the two factors. It also states that e.g. A one hour decrease in opening time, a 1% reduction in alcohol prices and a number of alcohol stores per mail number, as they say, is all clearly affected by this association, i.e. decreases the number of violent episodes relative to the bioavailability. So it is conclusive. It is therefore possible to state the effect of alcohol on human health. This study shows this. This is a scientific study that cannot be pushed off the board. This is one thing and it's supposed to be taken seriously. It's enough for me to turn this bill against it. Madam President. Science is making it clear enough. Other studies of other factors relating to bioavailability and alcohol in people's lives also suggest negative effects. These tests can be found if members of the Parliament are interested. As strange as it may be, I think and hear similar arguments with the cohesors of this bill as when trying to overlook science on the issues of major climate change. That was why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before that, too. It is a matter of thought - provoking reasoning. There are words about the benefits of foretold changes. There are words of an alleged negative effect, i.e. A discussion of the regulations, it's considered a negative effect. So experiments are designed to avoid scientific facts, e.g. If someone now tried to avoid these facts that I was here with, including those discussions on climate science, the inspired talks on the decline can be ignored and considered effective. They actually do not, for it is just as easy to admit that impairment is necessary if opposition to climate change is to work. So, like controlled greenhouse gas emissions, there is a greater access to alcohol. It's all a reduction of individual freedom. Finally, only on the responsibility, what. Senators. It really is in two words; it is only yes or no. Either they take a stand of responsibility and say no, or they take a stand irresponsibility and say yes. I believe this bill is a very bad cause to defend. If you can find one study that shows that the increased availability of alcohol has an effect on the quality of bad alcoholic beverages, or it adds to a so - called alcohol culture, I would like to see it. Madam President. Let's listen to more part of the country, to the professional institutions, to the communities that say, "No, thank you, no more, not again. I'm gonna allow myself, by permission of the president, to quote from the e - mail of Hallgrímur Magnússon, a psychiatrist who obtained this article for me. He says at the end of his e - mail, relatively modest: In view of the present situation, TV may result in a significant increase in violence. I believe that this word is perfectly clear to human imagination.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson for a good speech, and he agrees with what he says about the importance of being a professional, e.g. those who work at S.A. I can mention others, such as the surgeon general's office, a professional at the Children's Heart, and other parties. We'll examine health and social sciences and we'll have opinions, because these are professionals who've been working on these issues and have issued a warning about the approval of this bill. I'm not happy to hear that we who use this warning here in the General's symposium have some kind of panic propaganda. We base our views and views on available information and take note of the statistics and information we have. I wanted to ask you what. A senator into his bill, not raising the rate of alcohol consumption from 1% to 5%, which goes into a public health fund. This increase of funding should only be used for two years to help prevent these issues. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he feels about this duration, two years. Does he believe that in just two years? Counts 'em out. Is it not possible for a senator to join us, many members of Congress, to raise this rate regardless of whether the bill will be approved or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u115	Madam President. I appreciate that answer. Fear propaganda is something special, but there was now one of the main evidences in the climate change debate. I'm sorry to hear it again from those who measure this bill in return that the rest of us are afraid to hear it again. With regard to this question, there is much more to prevention than we do. I don't see it necessarily comes from giving free drinks to a small deal, so we can get some money. No, no, no, no, we can raise the price of alcohol or the amount of alcohol today and raise the ratio to 5% without having anything to do with this bill. The time we need is no doubt more than seven years. But he is, if you think about it, too long, if he's five, ten, or fifteen years, but the point is, it took a long time to get us up on alcohol. There's nothing wrong with drinking alcohol in myself, for example, so I'll be getting my own personal experience here once. But the other is so different that because of the length of time it took, it will also take long for these necessary preventive measures to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for the answers. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. We need much longer than is required in the bill to help prevent this environment. We see figures in the OECD states that increasing the bioavailability that alcohol has led to increased drinking. We saw before Christmas that there was a huge increase in drunk driving in this country, so this shows the importance of taking on preventive measures. I want to challenge it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to reimburse a bill to increase the rate of alcohol consumption and to call for partners to do so. I'm sure they'll be well expected at the Council. I encourage him to make that offer no matter whether a business bill becomes a reality or not. I hope so. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is going to face this challenge. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u117	Madam President. I thank you again for the discussion. I don't think it matters whether we talk about the increase in traffic accidents, violence, domestic violence, even stealing or anything we can think of in some way involving alcohol. There are, of course, numbers; all of this makes for prevention, education, especially for young people, one of the most important projects related to the management of alcohol in Iceland, except for the natural development of therapeutic institutions and other things, work to do. But it is quite clear that the present arrangement has not prevented one thing or another, and although we would change it, it would also not prevent anything from happening in these areas. [[The president calls.]] But it's just as well to keep the present arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u118	A respectable president. I'd like to start by praying with respect for what I'm so excited about coming up in the pit, even though I'm not invited, it's just such an interesting discussion. Thank you so much. Yeah. Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. He came into my mind that I had talked about the importance of understanding that individual freedom and human health are important. I don't know how I said that. It is rather my vision that people's health should be combined with one another, and that this health should be of the custody of these individuals, not of the whole. I think there's a slight difference in viewpoint here, just looking at the whole thing that matters, but we're also supposed to respect the right individuals over their own lives in my opinion. Hv. A senator speaks of a common health system that is protected by the health system. That's right, but I still think it's important to distinguish it. We keep public health care out because we want to help those who have problems, but I don't think it's like I'm choosing other costs, that because the person would come to my aid if I had a problem, he has a right to direct my actions. I think it's a difference between making costs and threatening one's life so that someone could possibly come to the aid of another. Hv. A senator asked if to allow the sale of drugs. I'd like to expand those sources, yes, but I'd also like to point out that selling drugs is already free of certain licenses, as suggested by this bill. That may be an excellent comparison. Finally, by the time the liters showed at the outset, the number of gallons of alcohol was increased after the beer was allowed in Iceland, while at the same time the consumption of strong alcohol, teenage drinks, and alcohol damage were greatly reduced. I'd also like to point out that in central and southern Europe, the litre of alcohol consumption is much higher at the same time and the damage caused by it is quite different. [[The president calls.]] So in this context, I would like to ask if there is any connection between litre and damage, as well as whether. A senator is saying that he would support the removal of the law, i.e. Come back on the beer house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u119	Madam President. I had a bit of a problem understanding this with the individual rights and the public health. I don't see this difference, or we just disagree on this separation. To me, this car-belt case is a fine example of a person's freedom of choice in the interests of human health, and that was my business. Let's just disagree. I don't understand this very argument. It's about the drugs that they're in pharmacists, but there may be ideas of having a drug dealer in, let's say, "All or a store like that." Would we, then, support it? No, I wouldn't. I specifically used this example to explain that we have a prerogative for the sale of drugs, whether it is painkillers or anyone else, we don't want to have them in retail stores, at least ... notme. This impairs even the number of people in the country who would want it to be less personal. About the beer. No, no, I'm not interested in cutting beer shops or on TVR. The main issue is that alcohol consumption practices are probably not controlled by eating habits. It's certainly a litre of pure alcohol that does. I think I can claim that, and I can compare some countries to support my case, which I don't do because I don't have enough information about it, but I think it probably has the alcohol content to do but not whether a man drinks beer, red wine, or booze.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u120	A respectable president. I'm sorry if I was blurred. It's a ideological debate to some extent. In my mind, politics is a matter of many aspects of ideologies. It's like I'm saying a common term for individual health, which should be on the authority of individuals, and we're supposed to help them rather than be aware of them. In terms of the medication, I understand that has developed some kind of drug dealer in e.g. We're buying special things. Of course, each example may be different from medicine, seat belt, and alcohol. But I think that's the point in this case that there's no strong evidence to say we're supposed to maintain a state dedication on the grounds of controlling the consumption of individuals. But I find this to be interesting because the World Health Organization reports that alcohol consumption per person, such as. This year in southern Europe is 11.2 litres, while in the northern regions of 10.4. Yet, drinking culture is far more damaging in the North countries than in the rest of the country. [[The president calls.]] So it's obviously not a single relationship, I'd count.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u121	Madam President. People's health is a common term for individual health. What, then, about the relationship between individuals? It's natural that people's health is not just a summer of 240,000 healthy adults, it's not a sum, it's a complete picture of what happens because they have a bond between them. When you discuss the social health and bans or limitations of this same community that is trying to control human health, it is only natural that the state as a general or someone else will decide something about human health. If I was wrong about the relationship between alcohol and violence or social problems, I'll admit it. Yet, we are concerned that, like other nations, if a quart of alcohol on a health scale, not just violence or anything else, grows in some country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u122	A respectable president. It is true that although the total consumption of alcohol is low in this country, we have a considerable problem when it comes to the so-called round drink, i.e. when people drink a lot. When it comes to these factors, we and other countries that live in this arrangement, with a considerably higher proportion of them than they do in southern Europe. Whether there is a direct link, I don't know, but I still want to find that sometimes I experience the reasons. Because a few times have come up with an accusation that we ignore science or downplay it, I want to straighten it out in a certain way. I've done a lot of research on the exodus in my time. I don't mention it here to rub off in some way. Rather, it was a basis for a self - examination because I sought the discussion of the times and any people who were negative toward their changes. There were groups of people in exactly the same party and lay down against this bill. There are public health experts, health professionals, etc., people who were guided by children. How could I, a university student who respects research, have come to a different conclusion at that time than to reject that bill in the light of the scientific findings and the evidence then available? The only answer I had, because I think I'm pretty much aware that my attitude toward the bill would have been in the way that I had allowed it, was that I appreciated other things more. This isn't the only thing I look at. I appreciate other things more, such as what I think is logical legislation, and I appreciate the self - determination of individuals more than that. I just want to share it here. It's not that I ignore the conclusion that the consumption will possibly increase. Rather, in the light of history, I view my values to be that I do not view this aspect in the same way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u123	Madam President. Is this really true because the effects of beer in Iceland were for good? Then let's think of an increase in drunk drivers, increased accidents - I know it has to do with other factors, domestic violence, the countless things we can imagine, or believe are linked to an increase in alcohol consumption, whether in a lit or in some other way. I think the warning in the old days, if we said so, was not wrong. Then we're stuck with the beer, and many of us probably like it. But we too are left with consequences. I'm quite convinced that if beer had never been allowed, we might not be able to live with the same community movie we're stuck with right now. Well, it's a matter of research, as it is. the ones I was waving at earlier, and 87 other studies in 12 countries, showing a link between increasing violence and alcohol availability. Counts 'em out. A senator mentioned before me it's just okay? Should we follow them, or should we ignore them? It may well be. A senator has a high opinion of scientific research and some special philosophy about their interpretation, but to me these facts are just like the growing average temperature of the earth. Either we react to it and believe it or we don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u124	A respectable president. It is interesting, then, that it comes out, and I understand the senator's words in such a way that he could hardly have done anything at his time in the light of the warnings then available rather than take the stand not to allow beer to sell. This will help us to see just how much emphasis we put into it. I cannot help but wonder, " When we look at all the countries around us that have taken up a similar arrangement that we have now proposed to be done in most of their countries, we are very concerned about turning to the arrangement we now have. ' It tells me in many ways that despite everything, people liked the freedom of choice, just as people really appreciate the freedom of choice when it came to beer, despite many experts against allowing it, and possibly they were right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u125	Madam President. In fact, it's a little bit about whether we believe that the effects of alcohol, as shown in the study I was waving here, acceptable or not, or whether we feel that the beer may have had an acceptable effect or not. It's very difficult to put the stitches on, but that's the way it is. When people say they're people who really liked the system, such as. in Denmark it's probably thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, or maybe even one or two million people in Denmark who just don't like it because they may tell of thousands of problems related to this and probably were on our side, opponents of this bill, if they were in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u126	Madam President. It's a lot to find out. I am a member of a group that stresses liberality and a group that highlights the interests of the public rather than the interests of others. Perhaps it is these two emphasises, rather than other key emphasises on restorations that make it impossible for me to tell whether more people have criticized me or thanked me for my stand on this matter, the drinking language, the stand I gave up in a talk study for about. Three weeks. There I admitted that I was deeply attracted to two views on this matter. I'd like to make them right here. I don't think the state is supposed to be in a little business, and I generally believe that people are to be held responsible for their decisions and actions. But as I've said before, when it comes to this particular matter, there are other very strong social views that come into my picture, and that's the health impact. Here, as in so many times before, there have been debates over this matter, contrary to political lines. To me, that does little more than confirm that this matter is complicated. For good reason, this is a bill coming up year after year. It is simply people, all kinds of people, that call for changes in this matter. There are really fewer classes here than others who completely agree on this matter. I say I don't think the state is supposed to be doing a little business. I don't think the public employee is better off handling alcohol than an employee at a private store. I don't think the state has to run special liquor stores instead of private people. I don't think that private people who are going to be allowed to sell liquor in a little business are going to cheat on the set limits, even arguing that they have more reason to take special care of themselves. That would be the loss of the permit, and it is a weapon, so to speak, that can be applied to the private person but hardly to the government. To say this, I do not delight in the fact that wine is sold like any other food in store. Wine is simply not just another food product, and this is evidence of a number of studies. I know that there is a difference between how literally such an outcome is to be taken. That has even been true. Be loud and clear here in the Sermon on the Mount recently. It is also a fact that humans refer to different studies. You refer to different methodologies, different populations, different cultures, etc. On the other hand, when I consider this matter, I intend to give the benefit of public health. In part, it's a pragmatic approach to me. We are faced with a predictable health - care expense cut, that is known. There are many factors, including the growing years of life in the nation. It simply means that we increase the demand for advanced health, which is wonderful, especially if we can live up to all these requirements. We are faced with increased technologies that in many cases improve health as well. The cost, the short - term cost to the health system, is met, although the benefits are certainly there, only happens elsewhere. In addition, it is also true that one of the main costs is an ever - increasing burden of so - called life - style diseases. I believe that the best way to control the expense of maps is to control these increases in life - style related diseases. There's evidence that I suggest the basis of my stand. I simply think the risk is too great in view of the benefits. The way that is presented in the bill discussed here includes my opinion that there is a pretty big step in this delicate matter. I would like to suggest that during the continued work of the bill, you will be trying to achieve a form of solidarity, a solidarity that could include violating the government's patent on alcohol sales, as well as the driving force. paritaprevir The Pawel Bartoszek opened up here in the public speaker earlier today, and patents on the private team would then be very strict restrictions and monitoring. My conclusion here is that the bill in the current picture doesn't get my vote. According to this, I am here to consider potential adjustments in the treatment of the council. I will make the final decision when it comes to the results of that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u127	Madam President. It's a pleasure to see that. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson follows in all its policies when it comes to the emphasis on public health and the red thread when it comes to the case log of restoration, while the propaganda with a more selective public health policy is the red strand in the direction of the class. It would be wish for other members of the same party to do the same. I'm also glad to hear that she won't vote to the bill. Nevertheless, I want to ask why. A senator's comments about her speaking of agreements in the matter or of cooperation in which the State's patent of shopping is to be canceled. I wondered how this cooperation and peace are compatible with her emphasis on human health and prevention. We all know that this matter is truly necessary, for public health and prevention and responsible public healthism to succeed, the sale of alcohol on the hands of the State, and thus for responsible parties. By making sure that alcohol and the availability of alcohol are monitored and sold by responsible parties and that the good good good good good good products, which are not like other consumer products, are under certain restrictions. I wondered, " How are these two compatible? The conviction? ' A member of public health, as presented in her speech and position on the matter, and on the other hand, what she talks about at the same time, i.e. attempting to make peace with the situation by eliminating the government's patents at shopping.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u128	Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for answering. You ask me how it fits, these two. Most likely, the difference here is with us that I don't think the State is the only person who can be responsible in these matters. I disagree with that approach, as I read out in my words. A senator, that the only way to ensure that restrictions are placed and fulfilled is by means of a small sale in the hands of the State. There is simply a fundamental difference in our stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u129	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for her answer. Rather, I come to the added stress that is sure to come upon the law - enforcement system by freeing the liquor store. The pressures of law enforcement and health care are increasing, and the health systems that have been used well over the last few years are not equipped to cope with the increased stress. I wondered, " Is the execution of the government's patents paying off and conforming to the emphasis that has crystalned in words and emphasis? ' A senator who is responsible for health care comes from the public health agenda. I wondered if she could thereby support some kind of reconciliation, as she says, about trying to eliminate the government's patents when it comes to increasing pressures on health and health care professionals and the reality of public health policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u130	Thank you. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I admit that I do not fully understand the question or the claims of increased pressure on law enforcement and the health profession by moving the small sale with the limitations of the state to private hands. The pressure on the surveillance unit - I'm not talking about the bill, I was just talking about the fact that the committee's working on these matters. [[According to the bill, there's laws...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u131	The president asks members of the Parliament to make sure that they are not in private conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u132	I beg your pardon, chief. President. In all seriousness, as I see this, you can go various ways of achieving solidarity over limitations is a will. I don't see the police standing by the doorways of every store any more than they do in other places where a small sale is restricted. For example, I'll mention medical bills. It is simply a rule of rules and a violation of those rules under law. As I mentioned earlier, I believe a number of examples show that private people have more incentive to keep up with such limitations. I'd like to see an attempt to land this case in this way and would like to see the committee, when and if it goes to the committee, look into that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u133	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son before the talk and perhaps primarily for being a bit of a solution. I'm one of the senators who hasn't made up his mind about this bill. I have to admit, I'm new at a council, like the what? Senator. There have been discussions for a few hours, perhaps even counting to tens. I don't feel that these talks have helped me to make up my mind, but I agree with it. Senator I think there's a reason to let the patents go free. I can't see that the state is necessarily more responsible for dealing with alcohol than with private people. There are drugs, explosives, firearms, and such in the report. I'd like to hear a little bit more from the senator what she's thinking about selling tobacco. There's tobacco now sold in special stores and grocery stores. You can ask yourself, " Is there anything more to change the sale of, whether these are perhaps similar products in this issue, alcohol and tobacco, since they have heard below the TVR value? ' I'd love to hear from it. A senator would ask whether it would be a valid basis for even laying firm laws around it and how that arrangement would be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. It's good to hear that more people think in a similar manner because I can say the same thing with a bang. A senator that most of the information I've been listening to today, and on Thursday very much informed me about the matter or helped a great deal, except to suggest that there are deep - seated differences in the matter. Regarding tobacco, the brief answer is that I just haven't wondered about it, I admit it. It's not within my field of interest where to get tobacco. But I have not seen it in the general discussion that private people sell tobacco as it is, making it easy for those under their age to approach it. But I don't know. I simply have to admit that this is not a case I have considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u135	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate what I said before that I think it's important, like what happened. Senator, we're talking to each other about solutions. There's talk of a profound conflict, and we hear in the community that the media and the public are very interested in this bill, but as we have seen, it's not the first time this bill has been submitted, and the discussion has been a lot. But I'd like to believe that it is possible to achieve a measure of solidarity during the council for the changes in the arrangement we are living in today's system. I just wondered if alcohol was a new product that was coming to the market and we thought it would be legal if the arrangement we live in today was the arrangement we would choose or make. That's why I'd like to agree with what's happened. Senator. I think it's important that this case comes to the committee as soon as possible, the committee reviews the comments that might come about and see if it can't be met at a meeting on the change of the arrangement that we have today, because while I hear people have different opinions about it, I'm not necessarily convinced that this is the best arrangement we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u136	A respectable president. There was no direct question about why. But I'm going to make a decision, because we're talking a little bit in the same direction, to those who are worried that with this change, with president's permission, there'd be no way that any defense could be put on the line even if it was private property. I don't know any better, and then someone will have to correct me as much as they do, but decisions about where the NTVR is opening up today's stores in the director's office. I don't know who's in charge there. Don't you think it's better to keep this open and clear and that it's regulations, limitations, societies? I imagine that in the case of a committee, if possible, speciality of the country will be examined. A number of cases have shown that a method that works well in urban areas is not suitable for rural areas, such as old history and much of it. Nevertheless, I think we could at least get some useful discussion if we went on the process and hopefully a solution that could prevent this matter from over again and that more people would be pleased with the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u137	Madam President. I think it's the last time. In many respects, a speaker, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, described how she approached this matter in a very honest way. On the one hand, it would be up to the argument that this is not the way the state is supposed to operate - now I am not going to go wrong. A senator's words by mouth, but in a gross way, it was - but so lenient in her mind other viewpoints, such as the public health and health standards, and concern over the impact on the health system; and her conclusion would be to allow it to outweigh it. Of course, the issue, such as all other controversial or broad issues, is about what we let our conclusions be determined, what we should weigh more seriously when we come to a material conclusion in such a matter. Now it is that all studies, at least those that I've seen, show that increased bioavailability increases consumption. But the bioavailability is just a small part of this case. This is in connection with other aspects of alcoholism. It's just one facet of many that marks the entire environment. It's prices, it's opening time, and there's a lot more that makes up this cover. I don't think we should subtract this into that it's just about whether there's an increase in bioavailability and that means we're in on it or after the events. This is part of a much bigger case. How do we approach this and deal with the fact that this warning is a fact, that it has its effect? Its abuse is terrible, causing a great human disaster, and it has begun before humans, so in many places, there are some rules to live up to. It's also connected to the freedom talk that I might have time to do a little better here. Supporters of this case would like to say: Yes, but at the TVR level, alcohol consumption has been greatly increased over the past few years and a number of restaurants have been opened. Some of it, especially the second. There are, however, restaurants, restaurants that have wine prices. In terms of increased bioavailability through shopping ATSVR, it has primarily been associated with an increase in sales status in smaller settlements because ATVR has stretched toward offering this service to men at certain distances and on which small stores have been opened in smaller settlements. When talking about the number of ATSVR sales, they must be aware of this. TVR has not increased bioavailability in that tens of thousands more received a wine store at the threshold, that is not the case. Yes, but there has been a number of sales because ATVR has my opinion, and quite correctly, it has been considered to be a duty to have a set reference when it expands its ministry. But this is a controlled bioavailability. This is under the strict supervision of the function. This is with the ideologies behind the ATSVR trade. It is a strong monitoring of age, it is a fixed time of opening, and so it is, in the sense of importance here, that because the State has it in its own hands, public alcoholism at any given time is guaranteed to be put on the foundation in the business business. Then it is unnamed what I've missed from this discussion that, by being in the hands of the State, and being part of the public alcohol movement and thus implemented, the off-limits are selling as much as a maximum, the private business. That's the biggest thing here. TVR is not run with regard to selling as much as possible. Not at all. TVR is run with the thought of performing this service but through moderation, promoting good association with products, in no way being commercially important in its activities. OnTVR does not have an offer. InTVR advertisements do not include day-to-day alcohol, which can be done by the private store. If I understand correctly, this bill is still farther in the edge in that way so that this is where the earlier bill of sale on subservation is prohibited. The fact is that the store can be used for marketing purposes, making an offer: Come on, that's 15% off on the red wine. And then you're likely to buy something more while you're at it. And to sell as much as possible to be in there if this goes out of the state. Now I know that many people find it extremely difficult for the state to stand for something like this and maybe even want to lay it down, at least not to get involved in this kind of thing. Now it doesn't own me. I have no prejudice against the fact that the state cares for specific tasks in our society. I don't think the state is a distant hostile person I need all the warning against. No, because the state is just us. It's just our organization in this country. The fact that there's something about the government means that's ours. It's our joint management board, it's a joint project in our organized society. I have no prejudice against that. This does not mean that I feel that the State should expand and be in a small sales business in general. Someone may come and try to make up my mind, but that will not affect me at all. I'm used to these things. I'm just getting closer like this. If it's a practitioner's system that's been good for us, keeping things in our hands, then it's just good, then we'll go on doing it. The price of alcohol is likely to increase rather than the price of the alcohol. This is because a private store will not be able to cope with 18% of wine and beer rates and 12% of strong alcohol. She's seeking more than that. Shopping, i.e. the department store, of course, has more to do. Not only does she intends to sell her finesse but she intends to sell her entire goods because she intends to import the wine herself. She's going to get a lot out of this product. She also intends to use it to attract more people to her shops. Who will receive the arrest? Of course, the department store. Of course, because she already has a lot of authority. She will contain her own products, including those she imports, to help them sell as much as possible, and they will be the dominant people in the market. What happens then? The small - business giants, the big parties, will take over this market as they do others, making sure that they have the same market share of alcohol that they have in groceries or commercial consumers. So the two big giants will have a 603/4-40% market share in alcohol before we look and intend to do good. Hence, smaller shops generally do not like this. The merchant on the corner is not excited. They were disappointed, some of the liberals, when we in the Economic and Business Committee called them to us and asked them for their position because we have been persuaded to believe that the small store would insist on this. But it is not. On the contrary, some of the defenders who continue to compete with the giants said: "No! For God's sake, get us out of this. We will never control this market. We can never have the commission, and we can't have the commission for the best goods. We have to buy them from the big store. They'll make us pay the full price. At the same time that they will, in the strength of their size - to the suppliers, the collectives, of what they do not bring in themselves - force their discount. You should read the 2012 Contestance Commission report on the state of the sale store. Do you want to add to this little contest? Yes, that's the answer. This will be an inevitable result if this store goes out of the hands of the State and goes out into the market. So it is a decline in competitive matters, not in progress. It's just that way. Here, many speakers before me have considered a professional position on this matter. Of course, when I talk about professional people, I'm not referring to the organization of the store. I mean, I mean, land surgeon, parenting, education, care and health-care groups, schoolmasters, children's good, Uncekef; that's how I could count it to night. I mean, almost united in the sector of the country involved in the affairs of children and young people involved in social affairs, general well - being, education, etc. He's against this case. Is it really so that people don't have to stop? I have to say, just as it is, an opportunity here to handle this as a minor matter of having some inner sense of freedom follow - I wonder. In normal matters it is that if all the comments of the most natural people are being heard in this matter are negative, but this is not the case because it has, of course, been in complete opposition to all these sectors; completely, both domestic and foreign, against research and logic. I think if they're just gonna push them out of the table, they're gonna have a lot of trouble. Is this a special interest in the public? Is this a lot to ask for in society? How has the view of evolution developed in recent years? Is this the subject of this discussion being done by those who want to burn the camp? No, they are, fortunately, losing it. Opinions show that each year the opposition to this change grows. Therefore, Madam President, for this reason, we can say that it is possible to thank the persistence of the transporters; if they continue this for a few more years, the entire nation will be opposed to this. That's the way it is now. Repeated coverage of this matter increases opposition to that fact. Today, two thirds to three fourths of surveys are opposed. Those who give support to it, that's my feeling, don't do it because they burn up this change. The few people I've met in the public, who have said they supported it, say they do it for prince reasons, because they don't think the state should stand in this, but it's no big deal for them. I don't think there's a lot of people who get this changed, except for this small crowd that's been carrying it on the table day after day. The present arrangement has yielded fine results. Iceland works out well in comparison. We have been successful in our conservative policy, forward policy, modern policy, dealing with the problem of alcohol, and the consequences of its consumption, and taking overexploitably. Why, then, change? Is it not true that the representatives of this case need to prove that they need to change the existing arrangement? There's no point at all. It's just that. Freedom. Is this a matter of freedom? Is it extremely casual? Is it today's liberalness to ignore public health when the discussion is increasing, as people are increasingly aware of the many problems in today's world that are highly expensive and difficult to deal with? People's health problems; these include obesity, the growing incidence of diabetes, as well as the drinking problems. No, there's nothing casual about it. Such attitudes are old - fashioned, a narrow - minded attitude. It's a special political thing. Those who have this issue do not do so because the public insists on it. It's not like that. Then it's not the public interest, hardly. The majority of the nation is against this. There is primarily one narrow group who wants this change. It's the people who make money at a major store in the country. That is why the movers are the special interest struggles. It's like that, like I look at it. The result is and would be such. They're serving selfish interests, not public interests, and this has nothing to do with freedom. Who is free, and who is not free about booze in Iceland or anywhere else? Free people are their slaves, their families, their children who grow up under the shadow of alcohol abuse. There is a lack of freedom, but not to those who feel right or wrong can handle the use of alcohol. They are not too good to go to special stores to pick them up to spare others more painful problems than they might spend some 100 yards longer on their alcohol. That's not the big problem. No more freedom reduction than a seat belt. Or not to drive at speeds greater than 90 miles, or what it is now. It is amazing to learn that talk about freedom from an individual has some purpose in this community affair and that it has to do with everything else. Instead of dealing with the problem that is too many bones and indirect alcohol ads, which can be penetrated through holes in existing legislation and a weakened projection, it is recommended to bite the head of shame. That's what needs to be done, i.e. to stop the alcohol ads that are going on and raise donations to the Preservation Fund. There are two things to do, two things are useful in this bill, i.e. The proposal to raise contributions to the Preservation Fund and the proposal for drinking ads by turning them back and taking them on the streets of current legislation so that alcohol ads will continue to be banned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u138	Madam President. I'd like to begin by saying that I haven't taken my final stand on this matter. This is not one of the issues I've had in particular my priorities or your list of conflicts. But in a prince's mood, I'm all for the fact that a store is as free as it is, and I'm a liberal woman. The way I see it, I feel that this philosophy is minimized. However, I have not made a final decision on how I will vote on this matter. I trust that the matter will receive professional and grammatical treatment at the council. As a new member of the council myself, I have not participated in discussions about these matters in this room. So I have been open to listen to both opinions and arguments in order to reach a definitive conclusion. But saying that I can't say that those who have spoken here on the case had always helped me to take a stand on the matter. You see, it really bothers me how much those who talk against it drive on emotional sex next to their public health. There are members of the council here who have taken the responsibility of protecting the feelings of those who are dealing with alcoholism. There are also senators here who have accepted the white knight's role in defending the feelings of those who are alcoholics, especially children. According to them, men, women, and children must be protected from the need to cope with any anguish they might have, possibly, experienced walking by dragons in stores that may choose to sell alcohol. As a child of an alcoholic who takes advantage of this dreary shelter from the city for criminals, I would like to say: "I don't pretend to speak for all children of alcoholics, no more than representatives of other councils can pretend to do so. I'm not involved in that kind of presentation. Rather, I would like to focus on psychological services with children of alcoholics. We need to improve our service to children of alcoholics. Children of alcoholics need much better care and service, especially in the country. We're supposed to be working on that. And perhaps and hopefully it will be the responsibility of the committee to discuss this matter when it reaches her. This is something that realizes that YES lack funding to do. That way we can, for example. efforts to prevent children who are particularly sensitive in this regard from becoming involved in alcohol or other drug abuse. It is a much more efficient and better way to look out for the mental well - being of children who are in the miserable position of being children of an alcoholic. A much better way to do it. Children need help to cope with the challenge of becoming children of an alcoholic. So that they do not experience anguish in walking through a camp where alcohol is sold. This lack of enthusiasm does not relate to the sales conditions. Such a presentation is simple, only to kill the debate. The anguish caused by being a child of an alcoholic has far deeper roots than that of an alcoholic who is explained by the places to sell. To say such things is nonsense. I don't do that. I can testify as a child of alcoholics who grew up in the country where, in my childhood, there was no liquor store that the anguish was there despite the absence of alcohol stores. My father only received alcohol from trucks, mails, or milk cars if it was changing. I feel that this discussion is on my way in here, and I've been here today being misleading. Like other council members who have spoken today, I would like to propose, and I believe, that the case will be brought to a committee for discussion and that we will finish this with a professional, good, and objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'll connect with a few things in her speech. And now I feel like I'm in another meeting because I'm an alcoholic. I have not allowed myself in my language to bring anything into it, nor have I pretended to speak for the diverse group of people with whom I share their fate, for whatever reason. I agree with what. In many respects, a senator would do well not to let emotional activities run with him or feel that he is talking to a large group of people in the community. I'm also pointing to what I'm doing. A senator who used to throw a lot of stuff off the table did not apply to other alcoholic children, since it was not a good idea. A senator himself. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator said that the sales places raised some anguish was nonsense. In fact, it may stir up anguish in a lot of alcoholic children. There are a number of things in the environment we live here that stir up anguish in many people. There are many things in our environment that stir up anguish in alcoholics. But I agree that we should not make decisions based on our emotions. Let us also avoid acting as if our feelings are of no importance to the community. Although I am an alcoholic, I did not approach this issue with a strong view of it. Inactive alcoholic, it may be time to state the details of the situation. I say what to do. A senator in which she shares with us not to have strong opinions about this, if I initially understood her not to be listening to the rest of us here, to listen more to the professional, to the whole group that comes amongst them. The situation for children of alcoholics is to be handled and applied in harmony with its advice. [[The president calls.]] That's what I decided to do. That's why I'm against this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u140	Madam President. The reason why I came into anguish was just because I think it is important for us to expand our ministry with children of alcoholics, a ministry that the United States has spoken of in itself as a matter of great urgency. Helping children to cope with this anguish can help them to separate the disease from themselves and from the person who suffers from it. It is the real help that children need, in my opinion. And as I continued in my speech, this is my food. I hope that this matter will go to the Committee, where they will hopefully have a perturbing discussion and that people may only listen to one another, listen to each other's arguments. I don't always feel like that. I have had some experience today that we are not necessarily listening to one another or answering one another. Here, however, members of Parliament come up in a series of times, not to converse, but to express their own opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u141	We're talking about this for the third time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u142	- Yeah, but everyone still talks better. [[Up front.]] I think we should think about it only, and rather look at it, rather than helping children into it and focusing our attention on how to help the children of alcoholics, regardless of this bill. It may be just another discussion, but it may be related to a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't think I'm only talking to the people in this room while I'm speaking from this booger in this room. Happily, though, more people than within these walls are interested in what we members of the Parliament say, we may agree that such interest might be greater. We may take it to heart. But I'm glad to hear what's going on. A senator's need for support in making children of alcoholics, psychological services. I trust this applies to alcoholics as well as to anyone who feels bad about tying over their heads because we decide to sell a product that is extremely dangerous but place on it certain restrictions. Sadly, that position did not take place in the budget of December, for example. WHEN they asked for more money, SOUTH went to the store. Then many members of the council in this room said that they could not interfere with the law. It wouldn't be our part here. There would have been more convergence on that at the time. But I'm glad we're doing it. A senator would agree that large amounts of money are needed to do so. I'm glad to hear it. The secretary of finance should sit here and listen to this, because it will hopefully be so that we will judge for the sake of the people who are to be bound, no matter what the arrangements of the product may be. There is a considerable number of people involved. I'm asking why. A senator at the end: Does she believe that those responsible for the support of children of alcoholics believe that this bill is a good idea? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u144	I'll think about it. So a senator can join me in celebrating the fact that there is just a special focus in this government to promote psychological services with children and teenagers, even in the country. This will benefit this group as well. It's just great. I think that's how it was, so let the government come to be. Regarding whether I believe that those who serve with alcoholic children are already taking a seat or opposed to this bill - I just have my opinion on it. She's not fully developed. I'm not about to adopt the opinions of some organization. All I have to do is make my personal decision on this matter when it comes to votes at the council and will take into account the information I have received about the case from a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u145	A respectable president. We discuss one more trip with alcohol and tobacco, and we are most truthful with all the reasons to review the discussion that has taken place. I'd like to start by talking a little bit about this bill's motives. Now this discussion has given rise to the fact that the situation is almost that we came here to an empty table, i.e. come to the position that there is really no law code. It's fun to remember a word or two. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks, who spoke of us as taking steps when we made the decision that the present arrangement would continue with the people. I think it's important that we always think that when we present a bill or discuss it in the Senate to ask what problem it is that we need to solve with new legislation. Why this case? What's wrong? What adjustments need to be made? And then our objective is to try to weigh evidence back and forth and ask what the need for the alleged legal reform or change is for the community in general. Now it has been that those who have been primarily speaking have even further turned the discussion into a way to prove that the burden of evidence is with those who oppose it. I'd like to allow myself to disagree. The load of evidence is in the hands of those who present the matter. They need to show that here is a condition that needs to be changed and can be reasoned that there is a improvement in the overall community. Now I have listened closely to the discussion of those who support the subject, and my conclusion is that their attitude is not usually supported by professional arguments. It is primarily supported by political logic, supported by evidence of values, as discussed, subject to the understanding of how society should be put together, regardless of the information presented by social experts and institutions. There's nothing wrong with that. At the same time, however, there is also the resulting reasoning. Those who support this case have chosen to look at the public health and health issues that are not of sufficient value; they do not weigh enough weight to weigh down the views that depend on the values and ideologies of the carriers, which more often than not in words, are about terms and uses; primarily on the concept of freedom and freedom of the individual. There have been an excellent review of the exact subject, i.e. the freedoms on the other hand toward the freedom of individuals and the freedoms of those taking the trades of the land, the freedom to shop for or sell products. However, in October 2015, I cannot help but give a witness that took place the last time that these issues were raised. Then came the wind. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall's main concern was to reduce trouble for those who want to buy alcohol. It is not a matter of increasing the individual's freedom in the sense that this is about buying or not, but rather that a person has to take fewer steps. This bill is submitted to reduce rotation, shortening the weekend shopping trip, reducing problems. Now I know what to do. Transporters have also wanted to go to princes who are expected to take care of what is in society, whatever it is that the State should take care of, etc. But I'd like to let me turn that argument back and say it's an unusual product that will be in the hands of the public authorities, just because it's unusual, and that the evidence is those who claim the opposite. This refers only to the situation and fate of those suffering from alcoholism, as well as to the situation and suffering of those in families suffering from alcoholism. I'd like to mention it and keep it in our best interests all of us that I am certain that any member of the general body is in the position of not knowing about alcoholism personally, in his own family. Without being an authority in this discussion or being concerned about whether people have a position or the right to express themselves on this particular matter, it is, unfortunately, that alcoholism is a disease that pervades society. That is why we should also take this matter into consideration. That is why it is also a part of the discussion, even though that aspect of the discussion may be emotionally charged. Why don't we just stick to the freedom of those who have chosen to choose a life without drugs? Freedom from those who have chosen to be sober? I would like to ask: Is it not a matter of social freedom or aggressive conduct toward those who choose to live soberly with all the tasks it involves, attending meetings, taking the daily wrestling, putting up with the community that the public space is actually under the control of the person and reminding him of the product that is about every day? Should we listen to such voices? Should we even mention consideration as some idea that we could include in our discussion? If the People would choose to reduce trouble for some group - and I'm not even going to go into the drive of this bill, it could be the most special interests of the department, since it hasn't been among them shaven as well. Councilmen have used the case - hopefully not having problems with this product, could you allow consideration to be weighed against those who struggle daily? There are thousands of Icelanders who are struggling on a daily basis. Can we talk about a community in which we take into account that people are in different places in life, and those who want to use alcohol should be willing even to go out of their way to buy alcohol, but do not insist that they can always take it along when convenient for them? Is that some thought worth getting into? I'm asking. I was very interested in seeing a review of earlier points from the Institute for Children and Family Protection, which was observed during the therapy then or, in fact, in the past. This university facility is located on the property of Iceland's University in the Social Management Department. The review says, with the permission of a president: Since then, national threat - and still - has resulted in such an effect in our society. Logistic support for this bill reflects values and interests that identify these same markets. Here are the views of those who speak unconventional liberalism and disregard for the value of human resources and child protection. A respectable president. The value of child protection. It's a very deep river here. This is a tremendous political review, because this case is very political. And here this agency sees the position to direct us to the Council that we should listen to viewpoints, even to those who do not have a strong voice, such as. children. That's what we're supposed to do. We should not pretend to be in everyone's place, but we should listen to it when it comes to those who are involved. That's what we're supposed to do. If we just look at it from this point of view, we are, in effect, saying that subjects such as child protection are of little value in the discussion. You see, child - welfare issues are about society and its institutions, i.e. All of us, have agreed that children are entitled to a greater protection than what family members can give them. Children have the right to protect themselves beyond the protection that a family can provide, especially in the face of difficulties. They have the right to be more alert to their interests and to quality of life than families with problems can provide. This is a very important thought, especially in this matter. This is the thought that children have the right to have a community and that society is responsible for all their children and welfare. This is found in the United Nations Children's Covenant. And the United Nations Child Treaty is not nonsense. The United Nations Children's Covenant focuses on our taking these views into account as elected representatives of the entire community. There is a thought in all possible international agreements we are in, but that is not the case in this bill. That thought, about children and child protection, is absent in the language. People might say, but that's not what we're talking about here, we just want to talk about psychological services under other issues, that's another matter. But wait a minute. Here we have an executive of children, the Iceland Medical Association, the surgeon general's office, and all these people are specifically mentioning child interests and that if this bill is approved, they're in danger. Why are the interests of children threatened? Because children are a sensitive group. They're for two reasons. First, because they do not have power and second, because they do not have a voice. Therefore, those of us who have the confidence of the public must listen specifically to those authorities who are bound to try to produce that voice. They're members. It is not a business organization, it is not a business organization, it is not those who want to move in or sell alcohol at grocery stores. But this is what these people say. I feel that there is no other way than to listen to their viewpoints, a respectable president. The ignoring of the direction of these parties does not, in my opinion, go beyond having very strong arguments that actually claim to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Her speech is Svavarsdóttir's daughter. I also want to thank her for expressing my views on this matter and my ideologies in the majority of the fair and honest way. At one point, though, I felt inclined. It was when she repeatedly used the word "cool " and explained that we were with this bill trying to minimize the trouble people would have to struggle to obtain alcohol. If I had my first goal to minimize the trouble people must have in order to obtain alcohol, it would be a much simpler way to increase the number of ATSVR sales available, because there would be no need to alter any law to do so. We could even have an arrangement known in many parts of the United States, known in Iceland outside the capital area, that wine is simply in the shelves of normal stores, but is sold under the signs of the ATSVR or the individual government's private sale. That would likely be a political solution that is much easier than offering the other. What we do well to do is not just - not even the main thing - to reduce trouble but to give people, both those who sell and those who buy, more to whom they shop for that particular product.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u147	A respectable president. This, of course, is political. I don't want to argue that this case is trivial. This is a matter that actually highlights a number of important points in how we visualize our role as senators, as well as the way we want to see society developing. Therefore, I feel that it is important that we discuss the matter fairly but at the same time recognize what is almost as the theme of some form of political ideologies - and now I am trying to be very mild in my choice of words - as if to form the phrase of giving people more choice; i.e. that by giving people more choices, you are always making a good decision. That thought has been very rich with right men. However, the underlying issue has often been required for the personal development of public service, a discussion that we need to consider much further than one brief answer. Hv. The senator stopped here with the trouble. There's only one point, and I would agree that it might be primarily political to mention it. But now that we're here to communicate, I'd like to ask the senator - even if it's not theoretically right to address a question. A senator at this point, but I rely on President Forbearance - for the response to the fact that it is an indifference to public health and health, to present a bill of this kind that calls for this strong response to these institutions and that it is a matter not related to the subject of the Senate as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u148	I'll give you a waiting attitude to accept this exchange. Of course, a word is not set out as an escape may be. I have previously said in this sermon that if I took my stand on the beer bill at the time, I would likely be facing the exact same debate and arguments. On the other hand, I would be confronted with ideas about whether I felt that individuals could have certain products, which were not legal but then legal, in the face of the encouragement of very many people, public health experts, child - welfare experts, who encouraged me to take a position similar to that in this matter. It would likely have been possible to use the word unconcerned at that time in a similar way, but I find it very difficult to see that I had reached a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u149	A respectable president. I've been listening to what. The speaker's comments on this particular subject are very popular in the media, and when it comes to a point of interest in the discussion, he starts talking about beer in a camp, about the old beer bill. I want to respect him for his feelings, but at the same time, it's another matter. I think it's very important that we stick to the subject under consideration here. It is very simple to agree with another argument, thus believing that you will work out the argument because a very different conclusion has taken place many decades ago. I would like to comment on how often the senator uses that viewpoint and that reasoning in this discussion. Hv. A senator opposed me so I can't directly ask him a question, but if he wants to discuss the matter later in the discussion, I think it's very strong that we need to see the reason for the need for the matter, i.e. More than the general right-right concept that it's important to give people more choices about where they buy alcohol. I think it's too small, too young in it, against all the rest. I think this is reflected in the fact that support for the case is on a great decline, especially in the back of the Independence Party, which is interesting to watch. It is more supportive in the back of Birt's country of the future and its restoration. But as a whole, the people are reminded that we should accept this matter today. I think it's because this case simply stands too weak in the face of obvious public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u150	A respectable president. I want to prove again that I have not developed a final stand in this case, because it is, like, a driving force. A senator correctly introduced a macropolitic language. Therefore, I also feel that the community debate that this is not a matter that merits so much discussion is not the proper approach. This is exactly a subject that requires much and deep discussion. It is in itself a joy that we have had it here and in these last days. I am truly concerned with the interests of alcoholics and their children. How that group needs support! Definitely. That's why I was wondering, and I don't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator may say that discussing psychological services with children of alcoholics is an additional factor. I just can't agree that there is some extra point to discuss the possible availability of alcoholic children to psychological services. I think it's absolutely essential and extremely important. That's why I brought it up. I feel that it is a matter, though it is certainly possible to say that some other topic is also involved. We're supposed to talk about all this at the same time. Then you point it out. A senator of old opinion who has received the council on this matter. Since they arrived, I believe it was clear that ATSVR has opened up more stores in many parts of the country, and it certainly runs a lot more stores today than it did at the time when they thought to come on the council table. I wondered why the council, and I saw a group of council members that could be held. A senator here has not objected that the number of stores has been so greatly increased, and the opening period has made room for as much as it does. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u151	A respectable president. I'm gonna pray. A senator not to put words in my mouth. It's very important that we don't do it here. I didn't say there was an extra point in discussing the availability of children of alcoholics to psychological services. I didn't say that. I said it wasn't part of the discussion that we're here for in this particular assembly case. It is not about psychological services for children of alcoholics. It won't. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator intends to present such a matter. I'll support it if it shows. I think it's very important. A senator might be very interested in her approach, not planning a particular position on matters, and even going so far as to call it nonsense, the discussion that has taken place, under the premise that she is in that position rather than some others here to speak of the knowledge of the matter. I'm sorry. I'd like to say that the discussion has been very good. Thus, this discussion, both today and before the weekend and, in the past, that the discussion has been good, and that it can be of benefit. I don't want to say that this was an old-fashioned gladiator speech. I feel that people have generally reasoned and have tried to listen to the contrary reasoning and to participate in a conversation designed to deepen the subject. In fact, it is this way that there are an unusual number of people who have given it up, just as is the case. A senator, who said that he had not taken a final stand on the matter, even though she was opposed to taking a clear position with the movers. In answer to me, she doesn't seem very open to the views I've been speaking to. Still, the discussion evidently falls on people to shape their thinking and make them likely with the goal of doing good to all the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u152	President. Hv. A senator asks that words not be put into her mouth. I didn't think I was doing it. But she's coming into some old-fashioned discussion in opposition to me, and I can just tell her about it, and everybody here knows that I didn't talk about old-fashioned discussions. However, a senator did not answer the question I raised to her or to what I asked her to have an opinion about the fact that the State, ATVR, has been opened in territories all over the country, and opening times have prolonged and cleared and access to alcohol, thereby increasing the availability of alcohol. She doesn't come into this in her answer to my answer. Hv. A senator speaks of our not discussing psychological services with children, nor should we discuss them in this matter. I disagree with her there. That is exactly what we should be discussing. I'm discussing children here simply because children have been repeatedly referred to by members of the Parliament, including members of the Parliament. of the council. Senator. That's exactly why I came into that discussion. I was not doing it to put myself on some high horse. I refuse to be accused of such an accusation. It's just very unsatisfactory, I think, to carry a senator because she's trying to get on a high horse by coming into this room on the subject of children. [[Up front.]] I don't do that. But I'm going to direct it to a senator to answer the question I was pointing at her. Perhaps it would be a good idea, since we have a place to speak about this and I answered a specific question, and a senator did not answer what I asked her. I just want to pray. A senator to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u153	A respectable president. Maybe first of all about a question. This has not been made available to the council, business or arrangements for sales of Vienna's NTVR. On the other hand, I believe that the bottom line of the matter that it is about, i.e. improving services and equal access, is actually the guide of that institution. [[Up front.]] There has not been an opinion or a relapse of the Generals. [[Up front.]] President... Because of what? So a senator makes his shoes my idea to talk about children and childhood's status is that way, and I pray. A senator is listening to the members I refer to; a university institution, a research agency in child protection, the Children's Agent, the National Medical Association, the surgeon general's office, all these parties are talking about the danger of child interest in this bill. This bill. All the people are talking about it. The decision to ignore the warning is a decision that people must make with their eyes. If it chooses to ignore this warning, it must be reasoned. That's what I've been saying, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u154	Madam President. Toward the end of the 1st. on this matter, I think it is safe to say that there have been differences of opinion. Some helpful indications have been developed. The discussion has been fully informative and, in many respects, objective. Not always, but in many ways. I think it's safe to say that this 1st. has shown a fine attitude in the case of members of Congress. The main reason in this matter has been well-regulated. I think that's what we're talking about. A top-of-the-art Board of Education has come up with an excellent basis for working out and accepting the discussion that has been conducted here and working out their views. As I did to the subject of my background talk, the doubts in two aspects of this matter can be divided: on the one hand, the views of public health and the views of free shopping are the basis for consumers'interests on goods or products. In part, these two key elements are incompatible. It's either. But there is much to bear in mind in this matter. We're dealing with a system change, a change in a monologue system with a little liquor that's currently in the hands of the State. We are also discussing public health in a large and small context. Of course, the discussion takes place in many areas. Without my intention in this second talk, I will review all the evidence presented, and I will respond to one point that has been presented in a series of cases. Senators. My statement has been published in a history in which I called attention to the fact that, throughout the discussion of human health, there were a number of studies, chartings, foreigns, and domestics. Some studies are extensive, detailed, others are not. Some have a discussion with the bill, others not. For every statement, so to speak, you can dig up evidence, statistics that can give evidence of the opposite conclusion. I've been accused of not respecting scientific research. I'm going to have a few reasons about that. In my background, I said that statistics and research are an important tool when discussing a large and complex system in our society, which we use to support our support of any landing or outcome. Important device. But I also said that there should be too much general conclusion to be drawn from such diverse and varied studies that may have so many things below which is not appropriate at any given time, using them as a point of view in this matter. It's bigger and more complicated than that. Of course, the scientific basis for our community, the basis for our knowledge of our environment, is our community. It is a basis for so many studies as well as the scientific method of producing something, whether in the field of medicine, law, economics, public health, or anything. However, one side of the discussion should be avoided as an appropriate part of the discussion as possible. Being critical is the foundation of science. Science cannot survive without criticism, the question being asked, the result is questioned. A theory cannot be proved until it remains unhesitated after criticism. The law cannot be taught until it is above doubt. That's basic. You see, in many ways I am a skeptic. I'm a realist. I'm not particularly religious, but I want to look at the facts and draw conclusions for myself, what I think is right. That's what I want you to do. That is why I regret that there are some questionable illustrations about this point because it matters. Economics have many respected and useful research. There were two very respected fine economists in the past, Keynes and Hayek. Very respected economists. They did many good research and economic theories and the meaning of economics in human society. Were they in agreement, Hayek and Keynes? No. They didn't agree. Do we here agree on how we draw conclusions from all the evidence available here? No, we don't agree. You see, unlike values, we have a different view of how society we want to see it build up here and how it can build up. I think it's important that we always keep in mind. It has also been observed in this discussion that members of the Parliament have expressed their position on the subject of saying: "Well, the main focus of the bill on monopolyefact is in many ways fine, but there are doubts about the process. I understand that very well. You see, it is only natural for humans to succeed in this process. That is why I hope that after the fine discussion that has been here on this matter, the committee will review all the factors that may turn. to extend, to what extent the lawgiver will create this product, this consumer product, with peculiar qualities, and with what public health policies the law to emphasize and what factors are involved in the fight against alcohol. We have made it clear that prevention, education, and real treatment will have tremendous results and that they are one of the best ways to combat the drink offering. However, it does not focus on the precise procedure for selling alcohol and on whether it must be a State monopoly. I am quite pleased with this discussion. I think it is possible to find a harmony if the discussion is followed by the following: How do we find and put up the alcohol - based box and related items that best come up with the basics of this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of glory, to defend his principal conversation after a two - day discussion on this matter, is to agree with what I discussed in my speech regarding the senator's view of scientific theory. I'm not sure this is necessarily the best place to be, to be in this great defense of your own story talk. However, in that talk, the senator noted that the warnings that left us with experts, public health professionals, health science, child training, and all the other experts were not scientific evidence. I wanted the same eye of the needle to be in effect when the carriers of this bill give reasons for their speech, since it is not a scientific theory either. Hv. A senator said in his transmission address, which I think is somewhat contrary to what he now says, that science is the basis of our community, here for a weekend, by permission of the president: At the end of the day, a statistical cuplet and a basket of such information will not be the outcome of this case. This, I think, is a sign that the senator is relieved to see whether science supports the idea of the carriers or not, here is where the issue is to be run in harsh political contrasts. It may be of little importance if everyone who knows about the seeds is strongly opposed to the bill. [[The president calls.]] Here, the politicians are up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u156	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Actually, I'm thinking about what it's been hiding from me. I'm sure it's going over again. As noted by other members of the council, there are several factors involved in this bill that we are dealing with. It's about ideologies and the values we are guided by in the battle for better society. Not all scientific claims about public health are proved. That's it. Is it good to drink coffee? A lot of cups? How many cups? People's health stated earlier that carbohydrates should be eaten, not fat, and then it turned around and they were supposed to skip carbohydrates while eating fat. These are helpful discussions, informative discussions. We're supposed to take them into account. But what makes a difference, and we should just use these points, how we determine exactly the framework that we want to create the case, is that we support the data and the information we have. I'm just pointing out that in many cases statements conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u157	Madam President. Hv. In his talk earlier, a senator mentioned that questionable illustrations had been made in the public address earlier today. When I listen to the senator, it makes a big difference how a theory and then the law and that the ideas of public health and alcohol have not met the demands of becoming a law of some kind, I see that it may not have been right to compare it with that. A senator to that person, especially the west of the ocean, who denies scientific logic when it comes to human climate change. It may have been more appropriate to mention those who deny evolution, who, like most scientific teachings, do not stand up to the belief needed to validate the law but are just high - sounding and have kept fine for some years. But enough about that character. I made a sound mostly to the senator about the handling of this matter, which I think is important to me. I think it's important that we try. In view of the fact that one of the two main points in the discussion is how the matter is relevant to public health, I ask if the senator would agree with me, provided that the matter is going to the General and Education Committee, to be called after the review and some discussion on the welfare committee, where the matter involves large issues under which it is known.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u158	It would certainly be tempting to do so at the very end of the world. to talk to who. A senator in charge of many things he came in of, and he makes attempts to make it clear that the person here is not in favor of the theory of evolution. Sadly, though, he will have to try later and prepare for the more objective attack on this matter. With regard to the discussion and the Senate treatment, first of all, I want to state that I have high hopes that the treatment of the General and Education Committee will be carefully considered at this point. You've been in and out. The General and Education Committee will do exactly what it thinks is right and that it needs to get as broadly united as possible on the basics under here and how the implementation of the law on the framework that needs to be created properly and that the importance of prevention, instruction and treatment should be emphasized for those who need assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u159	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator will respect me that at the very end of the discussion, I would like to review some of the points of the report that I have not received at all, and in some places there may be an inconsistencies between what is present and what is bad. A messenger himself has said. If you're discussing this subject and going to a committee, I'd be sorry if it hadn't been addressed here in a speech chair and even given some explanation. I don't know. I like a summary of what's-her-name. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson on the topic of the discussion, it's rather embarrassing, i.e. that the discussion is about these two groups and nothing else. But let it be. But because he makes different research, I want to pray. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson to show me, and send them in personal messages, all the studies that show that there is no connection between increased access to alcohol and increased consumption. Or even that there is a negative connection, that consumption is reduced. I'm just waiting. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Hv. paritaprevir The Tox Björn Einarsson and others have spoken about, and have reasoned that the TVR branches have increased and thus have increased access. The bill says that the branch offices are 53, in their case. The senator has reached 50 levels, as they are on the ATSVR website. I'd like an explanation for this discrepancy. What happened to these three branches? And since this is presented as evidence in the case, access to an increase in alcohol consumption, there is trouble. So, what is known as population growth? In 2001 there were over 283,000 alcoholic residents, 334,000 of whom were 334,000. [[The president calls.]] This is done at more than 5,000 shops per store in 2001, today as well as today by 4,877. It's not really a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u160	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Number of sales ATVRs? I was in the sense that there were 50 of them. In the event of a second in the report, it may be a minor entry error, or something like that, and probably for a General and Education Committee, to understand the number of sale sites in the country. That's right. Absolutely. People increase? Yes, I'm going to say that I realize that there has been an increase in people in the country. I can't quite figure out what that has to do with anything except what it does to me. A senator wants to share the number of alcohol sales facilities with people. If he finds some conclusion, she may be who she is. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But we can also see that there are so many Icelanders, and 340,000 less. There are also foreigners; 2 million this year. You can ask why. In contrast, if we see the increase in alcohol consumption in Iceland, how much is the role of foreigners in it? All of these may be very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer, especially since he took my heart off to mention the foreigners. I'm not the one offering a bill with a bill that uses it to support the fact that the change in alcohol consumption may have been extremely small because sales sales have increased so much. I'm not doing it. Hv. However, a senator is doing so. And it's good to go. A senator mentioned foreigners. We are talking about nearly 2 million tourists in 2016 versed about 296,000 in 2001 - these years are mentioned. A senator himself has put them in the report he recommended - and we can consider the effects on the consumption or need to start new branches. Of course, as the number of branches increases, the availability may be the same because people have increased. I doubt the logical support in the bill, one reason of many people, for these dramatic changes. Something else I'd like to ask you. The senator here at the very end, so that it will go on with the matter, is about the smaller treasuries. Hv. A senator, along with his partners, claims that the bill, will be approved, is likely to create greater opportunities for my rocking house, with the permission of the president: In fact, some smaller feces have already reached their feet selling alcohol through the product selection and retailing of the NTVR system and are acceptable to the current arrangement. However, this is because they have been able to get their product through a heavy and costly process and are afraid to lose the position they have achieved if the situation changes. What authority do we have? A senator for this opinion of the officers of my brewery houses, and why does what appears in the report conflict with what has happened to countless of my officers?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u162	Madam President. You could say the opposite of what you're talking about. A senator says that there are a number of cups to consider how many sales are to be sold in Iceland. Is the number 50 correct? Humans can examine population development, population growth, and distribution. I have made it clear in my own language that there are people who live near alcohol sales. The bioavailability of other residents of this country, who have to drive long distances to buy alcohol, is not considered attractive. Is that, then, the average distance of these people that really matter? Will population growth call for more sales? That may well be so. Is ATSVR going to close sales somewhere? It may well be; only the president can answer for it. What turns to that as a matter of course. A senator said that there are discrepancies in a report with regard to the smaller feces, then it is simply that all these participants, producers and general halls have a system of being up-to-date and mercy at the head of the ATVR for which products come to each occasion. It is true that it is a strict sales system. Who, then, determines which type of alcohol can be achieved before the ATSVR? At least it's not the consumers who control it. That's a basic point. The consumers have nothing to say about it. Perhaps there is one of our fundamental differences in this matter that we should consider whether consumers can have more to say on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u163	Madam President. Pirata's bill about a chicken council we're taking to 1st. it is very simple. This simply means that the General Council of Staff to put Congress's salary into practice in a general labour market. That's what the law says, and that's what the law has long said. That's fair, but it's practical too. As is the case today, when advice is not accompanied by pay development in a general labour market and those in charge are raised far beyond the rest of the community, people feel unfair, and dolphins begin, the so - called dolphin race where officials have come very early and others want to attend. This is not going to work if the General Assembly is not prepared to ensure that the pay of public officials is accompanied by public pay development that the General legislatures are passed on when they want to get their pay raise in the rhythm of the government's salary development. That's why it's practical. In view of this, the wisdom and fairness of having the government's salary development come with the public, I'd like to say that in 2002 it made a decision of a 30% rise in those under it, some groups, including. Senators. Then there was nothing new about prime minister, Davíð the son of Oddsson. The Senate was on holiday, it was released in June, then at the highest level. The prime minister of Davíð the son of Oddsson gathered the council, called it off vacation, and was appointed to the Þingur and provisional courts, as the regulations were adopted by my name; that the Kings Court should make a new decision no later than at the end of the month, and that it should take effect the next month. The law was so accepted. These were temporary laws adopted at the council in the fall. What was the argument? I'm going to swerve them, by permission of the President. The law says that it would be necessary to change the rules of law and content on which Kjara's findings are made so that they take into account the status and survival of the population and general changes in pay contracts of other employees in the country. This year the nation's economy has been stable. One of the most important criteria for this stability lies in collective agreements with the majority of paypeople for moderate pay increases. It is very important to maintain this stability and solidarity that has been achieved to meet the tragedies experienced by the national groups. The results of the 26th of June. The risk of this success is critical. Confirmation of this finding published in labour market declarations What did the workers at work say right after that? On Dayday, the salary of members and other council officials was not increased by 30%. No, the pay of ministers, senators, and others were increased by 44% and earlier this year had increased by 13%. With the permission of a president, I read again from the bill that was approved when the then president of the United States was at the top of the bill. The prime minister of Davíð, the son of Oddsson, rushed into all of them and persuaded them to accept it. The law says, by permission of the president: ◯ At 6. track No. 92/1986, about Kjara judgment, with subsequent adjustments, two new paragraphs will be added as follows: Furthermore, the Kjara Court of Resolution shall take into account the situation and development of the dress code in the labour market, as well as the economic status of the nation's population and its prowess. If Kjaravour is a reason to make special changes in individual officials or groups, it should be taken care that this will cause as a minor loss of labour markets. This is what Davíð Oddsson, the newly baked prime minister, did because the majority of employees are threatened by economic instability. That's what we stood before. Now these agreements do not hold 70% of the pay people, or the collective agreements, but the criteria are smiling. But this year the workers of the work market have decided to postpone their decision on what to do with it. This is something that we need to examine and examine. What exactly does that mean? This means that the General doesn't have to finish this case tonight, which would have not been done because the deadline expires tonight, we just got that information now. The General then has more time to deal with the situation, so those in charge are not the person who is opposed to pay markets in the community. It is a good example when it comes to earning a living, for those in charge to follow when they see what others have done, what others have received, so that they do not let everything upset us as we were possibly facing. Are there other examples? It was 2002. Yes, there is another example. Another newly converted prime minister, after Davíð Oddsson, Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim, was faced with a similar picture, except at that point there was not a 30% raise in pay given to those in charge; it was only 6.15,86%. Just over 8% while working at 2.5%. At that point Halldór Ásgrímsson, the present prime minister, saw a reason for making laws. If I may, with the permission of the president, read comments to the bill. In the beginning, it says: On December 19, 2005, the judges reexamined the salary of the citizens under the law of Kjara. 120/1992. The decision included an increase of 6.15% in the President's salary on January 1, 2006, while the pay of others under the court usually amounts to 8.16%. From the same time period, the labour market was generally increased by 2.5%. The decision raised a strong response to the labour market party, who considered a recent decision to be put at risk. On December 27, 2005, the prime minister of Kjara wrote a letter asking that the decision be revised. A song rejected this by writing the day. December 28th, 2005. In view of the impact that the Commission's decision could have on the labour market situation, including the new labour market agreement, and the unpredictable impact this would have on the economic stability, it is necessary to respond to the Kjara Court's decision from December 19, 2005. Has the government decided, on the other hand, to promote a change in the law of the Bear Court's decision so that, instead of the developments in which it was fixed, there will be a 2.5% rise from February 1, 2006, as this bill does. This is the reaction of the officials back then. Two newly baked prime minister, Davíð Oddsson, prime minister of the Independence Party, and then prime minister of the Foreign Party, Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim. The reasons are very clear. A person who disrupts the collective agreements of a majority of employees or endangers them endangers the economy. Their words. The words of the initials of those whom they were approved. One even as temporary law. Congress is quickly convened and the case is completed in three days on the Þingles. The second bill, Ásgrímsson Ásgímsson's bill, adopted the current prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson. When the government's pay development over several percent of the public's salary development took place in that decision and board, then Kjara Court, ordering to revise their views. That's what Pirata's bill does. That's all the bill Pirat does. It just says, with President's permission, so I'll read from the bill: ▪ Despite regulations 8 and 10 pars. to be recommended by February 28, 2017, - of course, you can change this date, since it is now 28th and it is clear that the Council is not going to accept this now - a new decision that includes the reduction in the pay of the General Assembly and Minister, which corresponds to the fact that their salary in general labour development since June 11, 2013. The reason for this is that the time frame of contracts for 70% of wage people, who are now smiling because of future development in other groups but who are not to resign, that is, on grounds they need to follow. And that is well stated on the basis of reasonableness and thus the rationality. If you are not reasonable in this, others do not want to be reasonable. Then the dolphin race begins, starting with the job market, followed by the economic situation, as both Davíð the son of Oddsson, and Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim, then prime minister, warned. Let's go to 2. Pirata's bill, by permission of President: ▪ The decision - on this decline in harmony with public pay development - will go into effect no later than February 28, 2017. At the same time, counsel should be observed as soon as it is possible to revise the terms of others under it, in accordance. - That. Other deputies. - This doesn't apply to the President of Iceland. It's because of the constitution. His salary cannot be reduced during the terms specified. This bill is based entirely on a bill submitted by Halldór Ásgrímsson at the time and accepted. In fact, the big difference is that those in charge went a few percentage points above the general labour market. In this case of the year, executives have been going, on Day 1, 44%, and earlier in the same year 13%. I'm asking, is it unfair? Is there anyone who wants to say anything about it? I'm going to ask the people: Isn't this a table? We've had 44% and 13% of the above, respectively. This is what this bill is about. The situation in the labour market is that doctors will revise their collective contracts in spring, primary school teachers in autumn, other collective agreements, despite failures, 70% pay contracts, 100 collective contracts, ASI and SA have decided that they will not intervene until the following year so that the Council has time. The Council has had a check period to deal with, as the General has so often reacted, to ensure that the salary of the executives complies with the public's pay development. Then I suggest, finally, that the situation is going on with the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u164	V.E.G. President. A senator will be talking about smiling grounds. In view of the latest news, I wondered if there are no smiling grounds for this bill. The labour market partners meet together and say: There is a smiling prerequisite for the decision of the Board of Elders to take into account our 2013 agreements. In 2013 the same workers in the workforce knew that certain groups of people were paid by the U.S. council. They can't bind a bullies board with some contracts between them, saying, "A broken premise." Council decisions by law that apply to this. The labour market partners also knew why. A senator, that the reduction of 2009, was to be short - lived. The labour market members also knew that freezing thereafter for a long time, just freezing, while other groups received a pay raise. Yes, there were no raises in those years. Then it was fully known that there would be a huge rise when the U.S. Council decided by the law that applies to it. You must also remember that the Council of decisioning not only on the basis of general evolution, there are other factors that affect the decision of the Council of Elders. That's the law. It is important that the law be followed. They can be changed, but you don't change them that way, because they were talking a lot about how things couldn't be done over and over again. You don't change anything like that. There is a bad practice, and there will be no better if we quote Davíð Oddsson and Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgím. Just not at all. It is a process that is truly unscrupulous. But most of all, I'm surprised that the labour market partners are going to upset and damage their clients most by trying to break up contracts about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u165	Madam President. The labour market members will not, as I mentioned in my speech in case. A senator was listening, canceling contracts because the managers are smiling. They're going to postpone the reaction. About the law. Hv. A senator has read the law. The law clearly states that a decision is made on three terms. The Prize for Development, that the pay of the executives does not exceed the public's salary development, frames in the other two decisions. That's very clear in the law. That's what they put in at the time, and they kept it safe. But the other is only reasonable, that it should be generally consistent and consistent with the groups that hear under the advice of men, that they are in harmony with other comparable parties. Okay? That is one essential step. And yet another is that decisions for this party, this internal harmony, are in line with other groups for which advice is made. Inside and outside sync. It's the frame in. That's what the Senator knows, I presume.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u166	That's a bad legal explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u167	Smashed in. Hv. A senator says it's a bad legal explanation. I've only got this from the labour market partners and other agents who've studied the case. In case of a moment. A senator believes he knows better than that, and we can discuss it on the committee. But this is the legal explanation I've received from every other authority. Hv. One senator says that making decisions again is a bad decision and that it is not possible to accept it. I agree with that. It's bad to make decisions again. The end of this bill is not about making decisions backward, like the bill at any given moment. A senator approved yesterday. It has repeated decisions on the rights of a pensioner. But okay. This bill doesn't. It does not have a retrospective measure. This bill tells the same thing as the bill of King Davíð Oddsson, the then prime minister, and Ásgrímsson's son Ásgimsson's prime minister, that a decision should be made and that the decision should be made in general practice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u168	V.E.G. President. In fact, the antidolescent material consisted of ways to evaluate this in terms of 2013 when it was known that the decrease in salary should be reversible. It was just temporary. In 2013, how do people think of considering making such a decision? If we go back to 2006, we can say that the increase is slightly higher. Maybe 50, 10% higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u169	13?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u170	No. [[Up front.]] Yeah, okay, it doesn't matter. But just the point that men have been reduced to pay for a long time, that loss of pay - that decision is not repetitive. No, it's not backward. In case of a moment. A senator fairly looks at evolution as he sees it that these groups have not followed it, and for a long time they did not. It was to be corrected, as always, i.e. to correct this situation when the situation in society would be better. After the collapse, the lowest paid was being considered. Others had to endure a reduction. That the labour market was to say that the prerequisite agreements are smiling because what was always to be done and under the law - I think it's a bad result of taking out and changing them now and saying, "Then we're going to do it all over again and aim it in 2013, which, of course, means not to take over the pay raise. That's bad work, even though I am Oddsson's great admirer, it was a terrible decision at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u171	Madam President. For the decision of a concierge to break a party's foundation at the labour market it's not exactly that way, so it makes it quite clear. It happens indirectly. Because people who deal in a job market just don't think it's fair for those in charge to go up so much. Then it wants to go up as well. It's the dolphin race. Of course. I spoke to the council members on this matter. And you know what? Congress officials just don't think it's a good idea that it's just for Congress members to be down, not for other parties who hear the advice. Alpes don't like it when one monkey gets a banana and the other don't. This is a known psychological experiment in monkeys. Apes also have this fair-endament. They'll go crazy if they feel violated by fair rules. Of course, the human hands are no different. That's why it's working. People want to be treated fairly. It is not fair when the employer's salary goes up far beyond the public's salary in a labour market. About 70% in this case. Therefore, in 2013 we choose because 70% of the employees with 100 collective agreements have to accept contracts from that time. Or there's nothing to agree with. But that is what their leadership has set up and was accepted in its own time. As a result, they are bound to these agreements. This is a matter of reasonableness. That we are not led into a national pay development, that we follow up, and that those who make laws about us follow them. They haven't. All we're saying in this bill is that a board of dressers should make a new decision so that employees' salary follows the public's pay development. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u172	Madam President. A counterclockwise is about opening the power more closely to the control of the power memory. These slogans from Pirata's basic policy include the reasons why I'm at the council today, but they're also one of the reasons why I began to apply myself in the Council of Peace from the beginning of my council here. On Day 1, I was surprised by the decision of a conquistador of a decision. We were shocked, but all of us felt that the decision was in violation of a board of dress code, where the increase was far beyond the general development of a labour market dresser, as the advice of a legislature indicates. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson has taken care of his approach to the case, and I just wanted to to to swerve how he's seen me and why I represent that bill of Porta on this fine night and discuss it. Since the decision of the Cathedral Council was brought down on Day Day Day, we have the Pirates, especially at the back of the day. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, used us in many ways. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson immediately spoke of the intervention of the management board and directed it to a decision to be revised. The one standing here wrote a petition to the Council of Surgeon on behalf of Porta on the basis of the administrative law, which I at least thought would apply to the decision of the Cathedral, and sent it on November 21, 2016, last year, where we at the Council of Porta asked for detailed information on the evidence and the reasons behind the decision of the Board of Elders. First of all, we considered our party a case under the administration laws, where the Council's decision went to our pay here at the council. Second, we thought that there were a few things we needed in support of a panel's decision so that we could take an informed stand to see if a dresser's advice had actually taken note of all the factors of the case that mattered when evaluating a decision whether a collective dresser's development has been taken into account in a labour market, as the law on a dresser's advice. Madam President. Prosecutor Porta's panel was not large, but it contained several questions that I'm going to allow myself to read from here, with the permission of the president: The Pirata Group wishes to obtain the following documents and data from the board: Meeting of the dresser board, schedule, meeting records and meeting invitations of the Board of Elders, dated 29 October 2016, sr. 10th par. The rules of honor, as well as the comparable data on the same subject, the letters and other data received by the Board of Elders, the Council of Congress, the Minister and the President of Iceland. We specifically asked for a copy of a letter received by the Board of Ministers, on behalf of the Ministers of Iceland, a letter from the President of the Generals, and a letter from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. Similarly, we asked for the evidence and evidence used to determine if the rules for consultation with the parties were met, cr. 2nd and 3rd mg. 7. The rules of honor, 2 mg. Section 6. Act of advice with a 13th and a 14th degree. Government law, but new members, including stewards, were not informed about the proposed decision of the Council of Elders. Finally, we asked for the data on which the board of dress was built to meet 3 mg. Section 8. the law on a dresser's advice that a dresser's advice should always take into account the general development of a dresser at the labour market. The time passed, and nothing, even though it was finally received and I will only enter into it at the end of my number. The person standing here sent a inquiry to the Council of Elders and the council responded by a financial and business committee taking an overall review of the rules of advice of dressers, taking the initiative of the current officer. The Secretary of the Economic and Economics of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson. I talked myself into thinking that the law that many members of the council had said was the case, that the decision of a dresser should not be revised, since it was an abnormal intervention, we might as well not have advice if we were going to take it directly into their decisions. I have to say, I joined up with what. Councilmen who thus spoke spoke spoke for increased transparency in the Council of Cathedral. They spoke of improving the law of the Council of Elders in such a way that there would be greater peace in the future over the decisions they made and that there would be greater transparency in the decisions they made in the future. That's how many senators spoke. I'm not an exception, but I used myself to. The Economic and Business Committee for various changes in the majority of the European Commission's panels on a slaving board as each week to increase the transparency of the Council of Elders. So I had a pretty bright hope that we would at least correct this so that the council's decision could be further resolved on the future. As far as I'm concerned, most of my changes in the quality of the bill were ablaze at a council, including the requirement for a voter's declaration of its meeting plans publicly, required that advice published its interest logistics publicly and that some kind of qualifications would exist that people be appointed in a dress code, i.e. that they have some kind of education or experience that would benefit them from a job as members of a treasure board. It was all cut off by the Generals. Also, the change in proposal was that counsel should never exceed the general development of the labour market by the members of this council. At the same time, Mrs. President, I signed a letter on behalf of Pirata, along with the heads of all classes at the General President, in which it was directed to the President of the Generals to review the rules of the so-called prole of senators, which are largely tax-free pay made by members of the Parliament and really do not have to render any dues to a certain amount of work. It was supposed to stem the high pay raise, meet the social riots because of the rise. We were told that this is a good way to respond to their decision. I have to say, I believed that the representatives of all classes were really interested in increasing the transparency of the dresser council and fixing the laws that apply to it, and wanted to take this case seriously and to take it seriously. Instead, all Pirata's adaptation proposals were made in terms of the transparency requirements here at the council except one. And a hundred thousand. an increase in tax - free revenues for the cost of work was raised to up to 150,000. an increase in the imagined tax that the senators do not have to pay for that expense was added to some wild-light-witzer that is now supposed to make the public believe in a reality in which I am at least not living, Madam President. You lose your hands. Finally, on January 31, we received an answer from the Council of Peace. Then it was found that the Board of Elders does not seem to have to deal with their decisions as we do at the council, but it was my only decision adopted at a council that made it into the majority of the economic and business committees' opinion of the Council of Elders, i.e. the Council to follow administration and information laws. So we received an answer from the Council of Peace on January 31, 2017, where it was concluded that the Qualitional Council was not obliged to inform Porta's party of anything we've requested, including the meeting of a dresser's Council, a program, a meeting record, a meeting invitation, or a letter, or any other evidence from the head of the government of Iceland, or the President of the General Assembly, nor what evidence was used to determine whether the actual development of a collective labour market. The evidence was as follows, by permission of the president: The decision for the job itself, based on external objective factors, is based on a dresser's law. These objective factors, however, are not more objective than if we wished for a more thorough explanation of how a dresser's advice would have concluded that they met the requirements for a dresser's advice. Of course, we'll take this case further and not give up until we receive information from the Council of Peace, whether in the treatment of this case by committee or through other administrative procedures, because the transparency is about opening up the power for the control of the power memory. This issue has been a rule from beginning to end by the more powerful, preventing the power memory, i.e. The common people, with members of Congress, with counsellers, with respect to the administration, are given something to know how a dresser works. The general public will not be able to know about the data used by a dresser. Despite information laws in the country, in spite of administrative laws in the country, and despite the beautiful promises and great glorifications and wishes for increased transparency in the Council of Mall, none of them have followed. I believe the bill presented here is a final attempt to open up the more powerful for the monitoring of the power memory. It's about time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u173	Madam President. I appreciate the contribution. It is true here that this increase in the holiday season was quite surprising, and of course it was unpleasant in many ways. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has also taken care of what has happened since the change in a dresser's council, which, though, was to some extent for improvement, suggestions that were not approved. Then an attempt was made to handle the case on the Presidency Committee to influence the terms. I realize, however, that it may not be enough. If it can lead to increasing job opportunities and stability, I think generals have to look at it seriously and see how they can help. I say for my part that I can do well to participate in a bill that invalids or encourages advice to revise the salary of members and ministers, and lower. In fact, it's harder for me to see that we should direct a recommendation to reduce the benefit of other public employees, so I don't talk about judges. It's been tried before. It was revealed in the court of the Supreme Court, I understand that it was not permitted. I just want a little bit of a attitude. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Certainly, this bill can be viewed as a visit to the salary of a judge. Admittedly, it will come to the very conclusion of the committee whether it is appropriate to do so or not. On the other hand, I would like to discuss just the other thing as a matter of course. In answer to what was involved in Congress's employment or work expenses, a senator said that at least I didn't realize it, but if it is now rather well, the cost of work is not paid. However, this amount of work has been shown to be payable. That in itself, when you think about it, is just shocking. That we believe that if we reduce the cost of work we can use here at a council meeting, the equivalent of a decrease in salary is complete disqualification. What all workers are paid for, that is, the cost of working, i.e. We should make notes, and we don't pay taxes, that's not paybacks. So that alone is not enough because it was a pay check. I thought that by improving the law on dressers, we could, at least, get a further step in doing this something more reasonable and not being as wet ast in the face of the public in the country, who may have several percentages of these increases while we experience several hundred percent of the elevations. But a decrease in the cost of work by 100,000 dollars, less or more, which we were talking about, in fact, 150,000. In some reality, it wasn't enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u175	Madam President. No, I have full sympathy with that view. As I say, it was really the decision of all the officers to turn it into this channel in order to try somehow to react because they thought that it would be unwise to force them to invalidate or to put them under the advice of a man. Therefore, members of Congress need to find other ways to make a pay decision. But I restate on the fact that if during the hearing of the council of the council, the decision not to look at the terms of the others who hear under the advisers, so I don't talk about a judge, I might well feel that we ought to add our weights to the scales to keep peace in the land, for indeed this raise was a great deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. Of course, we take the matter to heart. I don't think the song text should necessarily assume that a judge's pay will be reduced to conformity, but that the decision should be revised for others under the advice of a manor. But as we all know, it's a pretty big group. Certainly there is something that can be considered, removing this word and this sentence, and it will most likely appear in the case of the Committee. I think that what we've done at this council so far just wasn't enough and is a little bit of a joke. That is why this is the last attempt to try to make something a little better. I'm glad to hear it. A senator would like to consider supporting this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u177	President. Hv. paritaprevir Brunts Níelsson spoke of bad practices. That's kind of why I decided to talk about them. This matter, as noted in the council talks, surprised us. This surprised everyone, except perhaps someone who was involved in what was happening. The day after election, this case caused a sense of unsettlingness, not knowing that something like that was happening, even though you had not necessarily known about the amount. It was a very large increase. Clearly, she exceeded general pay development as a dresser's advice to follow. All we asked for was logical support. Perhaps there were reasons that could explain this. We didn't expect it, but we wanted to be able to look at the evidence and look into it and say, "Hey, that was wrong. That's what this bill is about, though, in part. A new decision, and by a new law written by the Council of the Council, which makes the decision to comply with administrative laws and information laws, which would mean that we would receive such support, which would mean that people could go into the argument and see what it is built up and could even use the same argument in their own battle. But of course, like a snooze. Senators have mentioned, we should follow along, we should not be leading. We should not place the floor as it has really been done with this decision by going beyond the pay grade. There are so many things in this case that are listed as bad practices. This decision was made on a special day, for some strange reason, since the chairman of the Southwestern Pre-election Board is the chairman of the Board of Elders. On that day, on the election day, the chairman of the head of government should be busy with something other than meeting the salary of senators and ministers. It only tells you that a decision had long been made before, and it was just a formal day to run into a conference room and stamp and sign some papers. It's bad work. It's a bad job to have no plans for pay development. We know that at the end of a contract, in all other contracts, we see a gradual development in order to achieve some goal. I would have liked to see something like this in the informed decision of a dresser council that said about its policy, that it was going to have senators and Ministers reach judges and high court officials in pay, at last, not one huge step. That's what really hurts. That's what's happening about every single and every single month of the week that goes by until the Council decides to do something about it and get a new decision to correct this, to bring this plan to us. This is only a requirement for reasonableness, not only for senators and ministers who do a very noble job, but also for the general payers of the country, as noted. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, on how the council has dealt with similar issues in the past. This doesn't have to be too complicated. We now have opportunities in which the company of industry and ASI delayed the reaction to the premise failures for a year. In their decision to do so, it says that many collective contracts will be free now 2017. The general body must not be the person who decides the basis for their remuneration. We have to wait until they've finished their business, and then we'll follow up, not follow up, but follow up on general pay development as required by the Board of Elders.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u178	A respectable president. I must say that when I received this information by chance, I was in an unnamed shopping center in this town just about a month's October/November. There was an enormous rise. I didn't ask for her. I didn't know about her. I didn't need her. They're few letters that me and other senators have received since the fact that this happened from people in the community who screamed at this rise, that percentage increase. Some of the letters that we have received have been from people who do not have knives and spoons, not all of them, some from people who are doing well financially, but who understand and sense the dangers of this decision, i.e. The risk of a labour market unrest and agitation, such as wind. paritaprevir and my companion, Jón Þór Ólafsson, has said here 100 times in the last two months, although much of the U.S. Congress does not seem to believe or understand his word. But it's a different arm. This work ethic is nothing more than a wet barrel in the public. I'm sure the public can afford members of the Parliament to have a good salary, but the salary development of the Parliament must be in harmony with the social pay development. Hv. paritaprevir and my companion, Ben Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, mentioned this strange date, October 29, as a day when the chairman of the Board of Booths has time to attend and participate in this payment, this grand news. As director of the election, this has most likely been one of his most busy days in the last few years. I don't know. I think maybe we should start reimburseing payments to those sitting at the board. There's obviously no point in working there, and people can do it just like that in ◯forbifarteten, and I'm sorry to decorate my case with Danish sleighs. It's about work practices and methods. It's about letting Congress's salary be good, but making any changes in them lead to other changes in society. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u179	A respectable president. I may be quick to speak up for an answer from the question. A senator before, because I want to add that this bill is actually based on an early bill submitted after the collapse. In the case of this case, a judge's partner showed that the wording that had been planned in the bill to be careful that the administrative independence of courts should be taken into account in terms of the total reexamination of the benefits of a judge's salary, i.e. in the groups to which the advice of the decision is given, it would not be necessary, considering that the Judges Society did not at least request those words within this bill. I simply want to make it clear that at least the last of these matters, it was not considered necessary to specifically state that judges would not fall under this bill. But we can certainly see if there is a basis for this now if we again ask for counsel from the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u180	Madam President. I'm just going up to this one answer, and then maybe I'll ask who. A senator about one thing, for she is a lawyer, and she knows the history of judgment better than I do: Was it following the judicial hearings that the judge committed and won? Or not? At least I think, as I mentioned earlier, it would take at least a few hours. (b) Why is it important for us to examine the context of 2 Peter 3: 1? par.: At the same time, advice should be listened as soon as possible to revise the benefits of others, according to their agreement. As far as I can see, there's a suggestion to examine the entire group. And as kindly as I am myself to accept a bill that doesn't matter to me, I don't trust to participate in something that has directly involved in the intervention of others, I don't speak of groups that the Supreme Court has previously condemned to be illicit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u181	A respectable president. I can say that's the case before, i.e. The case of the Supreme Court, and the intention of this bill, is by no means to demean an elected judge, nor, rather, the elected president of Iceland, if it is to be changed, where the law of responsibly does not permit it. I simply wanted to share it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u182	President. I hereby recommend a synonym proposal for separation of investment banks and business banks. With me there are four transporter groups, i.e. The left movement is a green supply, the Pirates, the advance team and the United States. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide the financial and economic minister from creating a legal bill that ensures separation of business banks and investment banks with the aim of reducing the national risk of banking and reducing the public's damage caused by trauma in banking. As noted in a report, the International Parliament's case has previously appeared on the World Assembly scene without ever being resolved. In recent years, though, discussions about these matters have been increasing. This arrangement was first introduced to the 130th legislature, but since then, as I mentioned, it has been recommended for such matters all air. Such discussions have also occurred abroad to form within the European economy. Like what? Councilmen are familiar with this age - old debate. The proposed proposal for interpretation is expected to be prepared and submitted to the General Court Act, which ensures separation of business banks and investment banks. The operation of investment banks and business banks is quite different. A great deal of opinion is whether this business can be successful in the same enterprise, but an assessment of it is presented for the sake of public interest rather than for the special interests of those who own and operate financial companies. However, this is not the only way to separate such activity. It can be thought that it is separated within the same enterprise. Therefore, it is not a bill. It is a pact that suggests that these routes will be investigated. It shows that public business banking is based on loans and what can be called standard financial services to individuals and companies and is thus received as a special protection by the government, which guarantees this activity to a degree by loan protection. Investment banks, on the other hand, are involved in financing a variety of investments; stock markets, stock markets, counseling, and property management are generally more risky and risky than the activities of the commercial bank. The proposal contains a package that seeks to define investment banking. Is this information that was requested on the part of the SEC from the account. Here's a definition of investment banking. I know there are some things I can do. Investors have been talking about investment banking without knowing what it involves. I've always heard that in this room. This includes demeaning those who wish to have such discussions. But there may be no need to dwell on it specifically. If we look to the definitions quoted here, i.e. In the first place in the Vickers report, which has now raised a considerable debate, this activity is defined as aid in the building of stocks and funding, advice in connection with fusions and takeovers, purchases and markets, investments in finance, loans to larger companies. The Liikanen report also includes personal business, business promotion, credits for hedge funds, especially investment partners and other similar funds, and participation in investment companies and funds. If we look at the Volcker rules, we're talking about business with most of the stocks, the sharing of stocks, the handling of stocks and business costs. These definitions, of course, are not sufficient. That is why it is very important that we at the scene of the Generals discuss this. However, according to the definition of the three that we support, the ratio of investment banking was 14◯25% at the end of 2013. We also know that this rate has probably gone up in recent years. I wanted new information for this case, but I didn't get it. They're still waiting. I hope we can ask for it for what it is. The Economic and Business Committee allows us to know the source and definition of this ratio. Investment banking was considered to be approximately 30% of the total bank function before collapse. I'm not going to go back to the story that's being traced in the paper on a long story, but I'd like to say that both sides of Atlantian souls have wondered where to separate business banks and investments, i.e. On the one hand, if it is really right to return to the Glas-Seagol Act, which is about merely separating such activities from different companies or whether or not it is appropriate to place limits on the extent of investments within each business bank or to set the requirements for separation when investment jobs are over a certain proportion of the banking business. All these routes have been discussed. I quote a report in British economist John Kay, who arrived in Iceland at the invitation of the United States, if I recall correctly, when he published the book Our People's Money in 2015. There, he discussed these suggestions a lot, and he criticizes the emphasis that has been on increasing regulations within the European economy, which we at the council's field are now familiar with because we have been creating a very technical and very complex work to increase financial control and maintenance. Kay's point in his book is that there is an enormous effort on this principle, it's quite omnipresent, in cases incomprehensible, and not taking over the underlying causes of the problem, i.e. The building of the financial system itself. This fine book points out that in the European economy a considerable number of people, thousands of people, are working to get either this regular work done or within the banks to implement the regular work within financial companies. Of this, the Icelandic financial companies have discussed that, of course, this calls for a considerable amount of work. That too has been pointed out by the SEC. At the same time, the natural question must arise: Are we overlooking some fundamental question about whether the problem lies, not in the details, but in the big scenes? The structure of the system itself and the culture within the system itself. It has been reported here that there has been an investigation in the Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs. He was on final inspection. Secretary of finance, and it was observed by the current Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget that it had been put on a staff to check this out. That's the best I heard. It would have been nice to have the highest. Ministers here and it would have been great to discuss this matter in daylight, I see that there's a great deal of interest in it. Congress members would have been thrilled to have this planned for the day, but not at 9:30 on Tuesday evening, which is the case with the council organization. Of course, having the highest would have been great. Minister to participate in discussions about one of the largest financial issues in the world. That would have been very good. But because this matter is proposed by an ordinary senator, it is not even available. It's like this that the Allied works. I'll just take another discussion about it later. Of course, it's totally absurd that we are discussing this one Tuesday night, to the highest point. The secretary of finance is not there, that we are not discussing this seriously, especially when we see that there is considerable interest in this discussion. So when are we going to take it? In this discussion, which took 30 minutes for building and vision for the financial system - but we all know the reality of the future and the so - called proprietary policy for the financial companies submitted, there is nothing in it - said the highest. Minister: Yes, great. Let us take this discussion at the council's scene. Why is it the highest? So, then, since he insists on taking this discussion at the council, don't you think it's here? I'd love to have the highest. Minister to discuss this discussion that he is so eager to take. I'm not surprised to hear that. The minister is eager to take this discussion because it appeared before the election, and there is one thing I think will encourage us to complete this matter at the council scene, it will not be put to sleep as is often done by Congress. Before the election, all the presidents, or spokesmen, were a group of non-presidents on their future view of the financial system. Then president of the United States, why. paritaprevir This is the case with a daughter named Oddný G. Harðardóttir, who spoke of the importance of using the opportunity while the banking system was being owned to change the system and that it would need to be discussed in the falle of a business bank and investment bank. This all came out in a report at Station 2 in the last pre-election talks. I myself spoke in a similar vein. It would be very important to complete that opinion. The head of the advance party, huh? paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, wanted to examine fully the benefits of separating investment banks from business banks. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy here in the audience spoke about the importance of covering financial companies' regulations, especially in order to ensure careful sale of banks. I wondered what to do with my life. A senator finds that a vision that has been presented in the owner's policy for financial enterprises where, as I said earlier, is very little about the order. Almost nothing. V.E.G. The temporary secretary of the present, the chairman of Action, told them, and I think it's very important, and that's why it would have been good to have this discussion with him, that it was clear that banks should not be in the middle of the economy as if they had been before. They would have been in investment business primarily. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, before elections, said that banks should primarily lend money, the investment show, at least The person who shops for things in other companies should not live in public banks. Unless my language has become more than just a little funny, it sounds like I'm getting the best of it. A minister there is talking for the separation of business banking and investment banking. V.E.G. Prime Minister, now the highest. Secretary of finance, also discussed these excellent features in the news report by newspaper reporter Þórðarson, that he wanted rules on business banks and investment banks that limit the impact of risk-benefit activities. He spoke there about the possibility of cross-infection. V.E.G. The health minister Otttr Proppé felt that it was important not to sell a bank in a box of amateurs. It all came out in this great show. And it seems to me that there is more than one thing to do in some form of segregation of business banking and investment banking. I also think that if we're going to attack it is important that there are rules before the sale of assets in financial companies is attacked. That is why I wonder at that, and, of course, I had two minutes in a special discussion here on Monday to find things about ownership in financial companies, that in this tenure there is no discussion of this. However, six of seven of the election's spokesmen and presidents were saying that this would have to be done in some way, simply by simply dividing it into different companies or by setting rules for such separation within the companies, or by placing a maximum percentage on how much investment work can be done within banks. Of course, this is also an important question if we are going to sell banks or property items in banks. Then we must ask ourselves, " Is this not important? ' I can agree with what has spoken about the state's having a business bank. But is the Kingdom to have a vast investment bank? I don't think so. Those who have claimed that investment banking cannot be defined: It is possible. The definitions used are not completely compatible. This shows that we need a discussion, that we need to work on this discussion, order this group of workers. I am open to the discussions of the Committee that we look at different ways, that different paths will be considered to achieve this separation. But I believe this should be one of the most important tasks of the Generals, to look at this and to finish this discussion. And it was by the highest level. Secretary of finance that he felt there was good reason to take this discussion, but at the same time, and it also appeared in pre-election discussions that there is no need to sell banks or property in banks. There's no hurry. I don't think it's entirely absurd to go into such sales before this discussion is taken at the scene of the Generals. Madam President. I suggest that this discussion be followed. The Economic and Business Committee and I propose that this case will receive the treatment they need on the Committee and hopefully decommission in this room. If it's taken, it'll be cut off. But, of course, considering what was foretold before election, this case will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u183	V.E.G. President. If I understand this suggestion correctly, it is such that there is a search for ways in which you can separate your business banking and investment banking activities. I'd love to ask you why. A senator would see if it would be unwise to make a clear examination of the pros and cons. It's obvious there's a lot of disagreement. There's a disagreement about whether it's above the system's risk of keeping them together but apart. If you look at the blessed collapse of a bank, perhaps it was the business part that was the problem. Icesave was in the business section, not in the investment bank. I would have considered it more reasonable to review it precisely rather than to conclude that it should be understood by the Council now. This is not really done now, not in Europe at all, perhaps in part in the United States. But in general, it is not separate. Some even argue that breaking up is a greater risk to the system. I don't think so, I don't know yet. Wouldn't it be rather to go to that job before making such a decision? You can hear from experts that most people find it unwise to separate completely, perhaps to have a ratio. But to understand clearly is to think that most people, if any of whom I have spoken to, do not feel wise. I ask: Is it not wise to go to another job first before we make such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u184	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. How beneficial it is that we do not have to resolve the situation tonight! The discussion. Of course, a senator refers to the economic and business committees. Of course, there has been great difficulty with this ideologies in the European Union. Hv. A senator is a special fan of it. Instead, this vast system of regulations that I referred to earlier has been attacked, which has been highly critical. It has been under attack on a very extensive system of regulations without considering the segregation to the skin because it has been extremely opposed by stakeholders. Hv. A senator brings up the risks and risks of Icesave. I think it could have been prevented by a different kind of routine on the business bank section and nothing particularly complex, so I'm calling it. I think that if we look at the discussion that has been going on, a lot of experts are looking for the investment industry to pose unnecessary risks. There are others who disagree, such as why. A senator says. I think it's normal, and I'm sure that's why we're here at the council, that we're going to do it. The reason I talked earlier about Congress cases that rarely get started is that they rarely do. It has been repeated in the council that this is a time to dive and order groups of people, and what do I know. I'm asking why. A senator who's so lucky to be sitting with me in bed. The Economic and Business Committee, along with other good people: Is it not possible for us to do so on the scene of this discussion? Is this the case, despite the fact that it is a matter of Congress and may not be discussed as such? That we'll take this discussion, because that's what we've been saying a million times? As I quoted earlier, six of the seven officers or spokesmen held this at least. until the election, that there is reason to consider this. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we listen to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u185	V.E.G. President. Yes, of course I want to look at all of this. But I find it strange to approach it with such a concierge. That's just what I'm saying. I know I'm very lucky to be sitting with a man. A member of a committee and, in fact, I have to say, I agree with him in looking closely at this. I'm sure I'd be very willing to be positive about this sort of separation if I got rid of any of the rules from the European Union. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm willing to negotiate all of this, just like with my drinking bill. However, I must say that I would have liked to approach this in a way other than to offer a direct suggestion that the council assumes to form a bill for separation. But okay. That may not be a big issue in itself. And discussing it in the dark is not a big matter either.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u186	It's often dark...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u187	You see, it's much more fun at the council in the dark.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u188	Madam President. Nevertheless, I allow me to feel that we often discuss matters in the dark that would be more comfortable at home, even if it is a relative dose. Hv. A senator is clearly a man of darkness, but I am not. I have often thought that the quality of conversation would greatly depend on the length of a meeting meeting. Maybe there's a reason. A senator disagrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u189	It's a total disagreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u190	He'll take a meeting board on that later. Hv. A senator asks this question: Why do you propose this in a synonym? Why don't you make this a different way? This is an excellent way to bring this matter up and discuss it. I've been asking these questions many times and have heard the answers that the matter is being examined. Now I want the General to take up this matter for himself and look at it. That's what we do best with a suggestion like that. There is nothing I can do in any other formal way. No doubt she could have been put differently, and I'm very open to deals with what. A senator that enables us to change the proposal to the conduct of a committee, if that is the result of what comes out of the research work of the Committee. But this has been being examined for a long time somewhere else in the operating system. This has not been the opinion of the Council. As far as I can see, there's a great political will to look at it. I have conviction that this can be the right way, some way in which such separation takes place. I'm not absolutely convinced that the way that's put the most emphasis on, i.e. separating into business banks and investment banks is the only right way. We can talk and swaddle. But I don't think it's always gonna be left for an opinion. I don't feel that it's going on, especially when we're going through these major changes in the construction of the financial system. Congress officials, many of them, have discussed as oscillating, and they do not necessarily accomplish their aim.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u191	Madam President. Sometimes I find out that I'm not quite up to my partner, Brubbur Brynjar's Níelsson, but I rarely do. I'm just saying, it's good to get the Congress resolutions that we're discussing here. I, however, disagree materially with her. I think there is evidence that breaking down business banking and investment banking will lead to greater risk in the banking system and likely more expensive to the whole banking system. It is evident, therefore, that the interests of creditors, companies, and homes become worse, and the interests of depositors become inferior. I think it's important, and I agree with the Prime Minister on that, to discuss this matter. It won't stand on me any more than it will. My partner, Braunn Níelsson, to join us in this discussion, whether here in the Hall of Congress or in the good committee we all sit in. But I'd like to ask what. A carrier who served as a member of the government here 2009◯2013, what discussion took place within that government and in these categories for the separation of business banks and investment banks. What policy arose within the government then? What Decisions Were Made? Were there any steps, although we would not be their public defenders, to understand this operation? [[The president calls.]] I'm not already talking about the government having, at least part of that time, the banking system is in their hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u192	Madam President. Yeah. Well, at least here's got at least one. prolonged until separation is achieved. and Óli Kárason the Brynjar of Meria, the Níelsson of Hammah, [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u193	Just a short one.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u194	which I feel now - in part, it has been set at a fixed peak in the proportion of fusion in these two whales. Councilmen who are now very effective in themselves. [[Up front.]] However, as far as this issue is concerned, the collapse itself was extremely uncertain in the banking system. Hv. A senator asks about the government I served as minister of education. This discussion, of course, took place both here at the council and in the government. There were no steps, no significant steps, but, as indicated, this examination may have begun. It quotes reports from this period. I can't say anything else but that I think the times have been in such a way that things haven't been done all the time. This is one of the things that could not be considered further. I think, however, that we have a chance when we get to the point where two of the three major businesses are owned by the state - one could land with the government if not for sale of property. We do, whether we own the banks or not, but we may have the opportunity of not selling banks on government property until we know where we are headed. I'm happy as hell. The head of the Economic and Business Committee says that although he does not agree with the case, he is willing to take this discussion. I think we have to look for investment banking to change the banking system. [[The president calls.]] It is not a very long time since the banking system went through the change in nature when we consider it. But I guess I'll have to find out in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u195	Madam President. Thank you. The speaker for the answer. I'm going to make sure. A senator telling me that the knife isn't working between me and him. paritaprevir Brynjar, the son of Níelsson, when necessary. I might have chosen to focus on another more important matter in my mind, which is the way we plan to plan the holdings on the banks, whether or not we're going to adopt here the rules where we put the maximum share on the holding capital capital capital capital, 15% or 20%; I don't know what we're going to do. And we're also supposed to go further. We're supposed to put charges on those who have more than one share, 4◯5% or something like that in the banks, that they can't share in other employment companies, so that we prevent cross-linking between banks, business banks and investment banks and general employment opportunities like this. I think this is a far more important discussion than separating investment banks and business banks, especially because I have serious doubts about its advantages. Based on the information I have, I think this separation will be more likely to result in an increased system risk. This will result in a loss of interest in enterprises and households when it comes to credit rates, as the banking system becomes more expensive and the interests of depositors are thus also inferior. The ability of banks to do business will not be the same as before. That's why I say, "I don't want to why." Is this conversation more than what is suggested here with me in the first - language field?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u196	Madam President. As I began to say before but did not finish, we have seen in recent decades, since the late 1980's, that the financial system has grown very much as part of Western economics. The financial systems have become much more extensive than in the past as part of the economy. It has followed the trend that investment banking has become a more extensive part of the financial system than what we can call service to the physical economy, or what we want to call it, i.e. Service to employment other than financial systems itself and then the public. So I think we need to discuss this separation of investment banking and business banking. This is one of the points that many experts point out; they do not all agree, and that is what we need to dive into. This creates unnecessary risks for the general public and other activities, this scope of investment banking within the financial companies. It is also related to the scope of the financial companies themselves have become in their own laps of economy. Hv. A senator says: "Wicked. " The senator will not discuss what I am interested in rather than what she is interested in? I'll talk about it like a dog. A senator is interested, but let's discuss this proposal as well. Let's discuss both. I quote the procurator of the Independence Party, who earlier wrote on the controversial factors that I quoted earlier - and I am witnessing to the chairman of the Independence Party: We need to review two aspects of the financial system. That's what I'm talking about. A senator noted, not to be in the bank ownership, who are prominent in other activities in the Icelandic market, that they are not large members of the owner's group, and that they agree. And then the head of the Independence Party also spoke about the rules of business banks and investment banks that limit the impact of risk-benefit activities. That's where we agree. [[Up front.]] For that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u197	Madam President. As much as it's going to be in the dark business of a council late into the evening, I'm not going to try to extend this case very much, but most of the people came to the matter of a prime speaker who matters about this proposal. I'm with her because this is a very important case. In order to explain my position, while quoted earlier, I have repeatedly said in various fields that it is absolutely necessary to separate investment and business banking and that there is no reason to sell the banks who are in public interest right now simply because it is not a priority. In contrast, reducing growth, especially on the debt of the state, is a priority for reducing expenses, unnecessary expenses. But there is nothing in the debt of a state fund that will be added simply by selling the banks. The important thing is to distinguish it first and make a good rule. What I'd like to point out in this discussion is that already there is one very good information from the International Economic Institutes and the best thing about it is that it follows a whole bill, this is a suggestion for a bill, or a bill to fix with the s-i and a dash as appropriate, so there's a lot of parentheses and all kinds of goodies in this bill that I think is going well in the direction of solving the problem proposed to be solved. I'd like to direct it into the discussion that this can be one of the points that will be placed on the committee. In order to extend my case only in the light of what has been yet, I have to admit that I was a little afraid to hear the ignorance of my comrades in a financial and business committee of economic history in their case about the development of that separating of business banks and investment banks and how it has developed over the years. In most cases, such a separation was first adopted in the United States in 1933 that after the Great Depression, I recalled that it was stable and remained stable despite World War II and other factors. It had begun to undermine that 1960 law, it was completely by law there. But a similar route has been made in other countries, including the U.S. European countries and these can be listed as a recent report from 2012, a so-called Liikaken report, which describes the importance of such separation. This is exactly why we have had a discussion in the Economic and Business Committee specific suggestions based on the European Union CRD IV Directive. The accompanying commentaries of this very long directive, which calls to mind the 300 pages of the 900 - page Regulation provided, refer to the system risk generated by different types of banking, including in investment banks and business banks, and how each risk, if handled well, is significant and tolerated. That's exactly what CRD is going on with those problems. However, the synergistic effect of mixing these activities is often that these functions cannot be established, as it may be well seen, that when these were permitted in the United States of 1999 less than a decade for the whole system to be crushed. This was natural at the time when similar reliefs in bank operations occurred in Iceland and throughout Europe and could be said to have actually had something more to do with the collapse that had to be done in 2008 than any other Icesave alone. Although Icesave was certainly a big point in the discussion all along, it was not Icesave that led to the collapse of the banks in Iceland. That was even. It was a deal of love, a lot of risky and often disloyal loans given here and there, including to the good friends of the banks. This is the situation we have to keep from being back in Iceland. The separating of business banks and investment banks is, in fact, not even a complicated point. That's basic. This is something you do before you attack big, complex, and difficult situations, but there are quite a lot of them when you're talking about rules about modern banking. To this intent I testify, by the permission of the President, to the custody of the City of Haustiism, which says: In the less recent century since the fine men of Glass and Steagall were working out of a very terrible collapse, the transfer of financial markets and international markets needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u198	V.E.G. President. I have to admit that I didn't understand much about this talk, but I understood that the government should have the banks most, at least Still for a while, and instead of selling and paying off debts, we should concentrate on lowering interest. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then I'd like to ask who. A senator of something that the bill itself does not focus on: Would the senator not expect that selling shares in banks and paying down debts could affect the country's interest level, to a decrease, perhaps to which everyone may feel obvious? Or how's it going? A senator lowering the interest level in the country? What measures does he take in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u199	Madam President. Thank you for your excellent inquiry. True, I find that it's strange to me. A senator answered the speaker twice, beginning with the words that he does not understand what they were saying. I don't know if it'll take anything to answer. I'll try anyway. I think the thing is, there's a misunderstanding about how government debt works. The rate of growth today is primarily a random decision, which comes from trying to control the amount of money in Iceland traffic with the only device that doesn't work as well as is spoken of and is an excellent science to explain it. What should be done is more to use other controls and to reduce growth. Paying off government debts will do nothing more than reducing the total amount of private savings in the economy, which is not necessarily desirable either. We must realize that these two are only associated in the small sense that we are in the position that 70 billion each year grow for, in fact, one of Europe's lowest relative debt points, if you compare it with other countries. The problem lies down, not to mention the high interest level that strikes those with mortgages and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u200	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to discuss some economics in this regard. A senator, but the arctic fruits of the Navy bank and real fruits are not the same. Money is a product, and people are ready to sell that product at a price. What does it matter when people are selling this product? What matters is how much the debt of our state's funds is, how much people have faith in our system, how much we owe the nation, when it comes to interest. It's a backup. The availability and demand are important. Of course, if people are to lower their interest level in the country, there must be stability, a small debt, and the state not in some venture by having hundreds of billions of dollars in the banking system, there is a risk. How does it matter? A senator who had gone here in the bank crisis would the state have owned all this bank? What does it want? A senator say about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u201	Madam President. I don't quite understand already. A senator talks about not discussing economics but then directly into an economic debate. I don't understand such things. We're actually talking economics, it's all about economics. But I completely agree with what. A senator's goal is to increase the confidence of the people in Iceland's economy. That's what we're trying to do with this synonym, trying to reduce the likelihood of another major system crash, as it occurred in 2008. We'll do it, even if we do it. by separating business banks and investment banks [[Up front.]] Yes, I'm sure this will lead to that and not exactly the increase. paritaprevir Óli Kárason, the son of Meria, prophesied that the expenses of loans and other things will go out of control. History helps us to know that. If we ignore the practicality, which may be the other factor, these are, of course, goods. Of course, loans are being purchased and sold on the market. But when one person on the market, whether it's a traditional soloist or Iceland's Secret Bank, he/she will be controlled in the way he does, it will, of course, change the price of the product. It's pretty obvious. It's not complicated economics, huh? paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I can't believe that this is so incomprehensible that we can't talk to each other and even listen to each other when we discuss the nature of the economy and how we should defend it and increase the public belief in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u202	A respectable president. I'm not going to go to economic explanations, and I'm going to keep it, even if it may be possible for someone to try to bring up such a conversation in objections. In the second chapter of Volume 1 of the European Parliament's Report on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks 2008, the President's permission includes: ▪ The research committee's opinions on the activities of the Icelandic bank indicate that there has been a significant increase in financial authority in recent years. Special note that the freedom of loan institutions to pursue risky investments was greatly increased during this period. Among other things, it was authorized to practice investment banking along with the traditional business banking activities without allowing room for increased risk taking to the end of adequate management and demand for more money. So many were words. It's even The reason I add my name to this synonym and choose not to prolong my case, rather than simply say, "We shall not burn ourselves twice in the same ritual. "
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for bringing this council resolution into the council. This is an extremely important discussion. I have to say, I actually feel that my priorities here at the council are completely different. I'm thinking of just starting my speech with it. Here we are, at about ten o'clock, and we are discussing one of the biggest issues ahead of us, the vision of the banking system, the separation of business banks and investment banks. But where is the boss and the one with the greatest responsibility? Is he here in the Senate Hall? Financial and economic ministers? He's not here. This priorities at the council are so remarkable that I think people outside the community cannot believe this. The day went on to discuss the liquor bill. We know that the health - care cost may double as a result of illness. The whole day went on that discussion. Then we are here, and it is a unique opportunity to discuss the future financial market because of its extraordinary ownership, among the highest ones in Europe. No, then there's just a night meeting, there's no financial and economic minister to enter the discussion or resist, and we're sitting here or standing and we're going over this important matter. The financial system that I want to see ahead is: I want to see economic and economic systems, financial systems that serve all the people, homes, and employment. I want to have a financial system that is stable and that can guarantee the necessary infrastructure at all times. The situation of the Icelandic financial market, as I said earlier, is one of the most unique designs on the future budget of the Icelandic financial market. Not only can the government set a law on banks but it can also affect the future financial systems but it can achieve changes as its owner. Since the financial collapse of the banking system, there have been many successes. The banks are stable, and the quality of property has increased considerably in recent years. The proposal here for interpretation of the separation of investment banks and business banks is quite remarkable. Such separation has not been practiced in other European countries, but it is in some states in the United States. The main purpose of the proposal is to minimize the national risk of banking and to reduce the risk of public damage from trauma in banking. This is a suggestion with a view to the future. I might wish to support such a suggestion. But before I was ready to give too much up in that regard, I would first want to see a full-scale review of the banking system, where the following factors were checked and I'd like to mention a few. First, the overall size of the banking system. The field of the banking system must be checked, the extent to which the current size is desired, and the extent to which it could achieve additional size benefits in the system. I think we still have a pretty big, somewhat expensive system. This should be checked before taking the next step. Second, property and involvement in a financial market. The share of the estate of the State Fund must be considered in the short or long term, as well as the importance of involvement in financial markets. In the light of history, it is in my opinion that the government fund is leading to investments in at least one bank. Third, Organize the financial system. The need to consider whether it is practical to combine or even divide certain units. The whole thing is going to be examined. Could we possibly achieve more competition if we were to divide any units? Or could joining others result in additional sizes? All this work is going to be done. That is why I have to mention again and again that this was the publication of an updated government policy at the financial market of February 10th. There they lacked a vision of the future. None of the factors I already mentioned were underneath. Fourth, I'd like to mention, which is exactly the subject of this synonym, the separation of business banking and investment banking. In this case, I believe we need to, as mentioned in the synonym, to identify the ways in which there are ways that could reduce the financial risk. Is it, e.g. This separation? We need to consider this in the light of also what is happening in other countries, what is their experience. I also feel that we should be a little brave when we make such an examination, and that's why it's urgent. Fifth, distribute ownership or leading investors. There we need to review what form of possession is best suited to the economic interests of the economy and see to it the state of the demand side. This is only mentioned in updated financial and economic policies. It is headed for a scattered possession. In fact, this was shown in the case of a minister now when we were discussing this in special discussions, but I would also like to examine the intentions of foreign property and, especially, look at them in the northern countries. I think it would be worth considering the interest there is. I feel that if we go into some kind of foreign holding, they'll have to have a lot of experience with banking. There's a little bit of respect to it that needs to be brought. But as with others, this is something that needs further attention and consideration before proceeding further. Sixth, foreign loan gain. With increasing credit ratings, along with the credible restoration of the economy, the funding of the banking system has dropped substantially, but it is on the higher side, as we all know. I think there is a need to analyze how the banking system can promote foreign loan gains in competition with foreign banks and how their competitiveness could increase by means of a reasonable management arrangement. 7th: only international comparisons need to be better reviewed. What's going on in there? We know that since the international financial crisis, the work has been expanded and fully monitored by banking. We are confident and are, of course, taking a lot of this through the EEA Convention. We need to consider what is proving to be a real success for the nations. I think that before we go any further, and I've been talking about it in articles, that it may be very wise to set up a team of very skilled experts who would make plans for the future financial market, where all these factors I was referring to were examined. But I also believe that for this to be credible and that there is a certain agreement in society, the legislatator needs to get into such work. It must be a political possession of what we are doing in order for this to be successful. And also, I'd like to say that because the government has one person more part, it has to be in a firm agreement with the steps that will be taken in the future of the Icelandic financial market. The aim is to develop financial markets that will serve Icelandic homes and companies in a responsible and successful way. I say, it's a unique opportunity, and actually a death - dealing instrument, to achieve a successful policy with regard to a Icelandic financial market. How vital it is that we use this opportunity and take this discussion, not necessarily in the evening! I just once again call for a better priorities for an Icelandic society's issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u204	Madam President. Now I think that everyone can agree that the country's newest owner policy has no vision of the future. I also think that everyone should be able to agree that the structure of the banking system needs to be reviewed. I'm very willing to discuss it in a much deeper way. A senator. But I'd like to curious about whether or not the position she made here would give any reason to believe that this is not a normal step anyway, and maybe as a first step, separate investment and business banks. There are now very many reasons why this separation takes place regardless of any other reorganization of the banking system. I wanted to have ideas. That's for a senator. And perhaps more: Its many speculations about the reorganization of the banking system were that they could be equally relevant to the pension system, which is less important. I'm asking if it wouldn't be a reason to engage in a comparable review of that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u205	Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for this one. I think it's totally worth it, as I mentioned, to consider carefully whether it's wise to separate business and investment banking. There are many arguments, and many of the things that happened to me are going into that direction. I would, however, before we conclude that this operation will take place, like to see a little more diagnostic work on it and how practical it is for our system. We're a small open economy. There are times when there is a lack of competition. I want to take all this overall review first before we take our stand on this. But there is also very good evidence to follow because there is also a certain risk. One of the things we need to make a statement before we sell is, Is it wise to understand the difference? Do we even get more for the sale when we've done this? This is what I want us to make a definite assessment of and that the legislature is part of that job. It's not just that we get a relatively dry paper on owner policy that doesn't give us any guidance on this. With regard to our pension fund: Yes, I think it is also absolutely time to review its basic components. In recent years, this has grown tremendously. It's also involved in the disposal of capital flotation. We get a lot of influx through the service equation, of the foreign currency that's pushing up a lot so I've been thinking that we'd have to set floors on it in terms of investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u206	Madam President. I welcome that attitude in a sense. I still think this proposal should be done by now. I would like to suggest that there will be additional cooperation here, after these excellent discussions, on how to propose a proposal to reorganize the banking system and the pension system, with all this in mind. It may be possible to put together in such a way that this suggestion could be achieved along with the other one and achieve all the goals at the same time. I don't think this has to be against each other. And that's exactly right. A senator says that there is such a situation in the economy now that if we don't do this now, we're missing out on a wonderful opportunity. It would really be wrong just to let it go. This is a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u207	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with you more. I think we should get along with this proposal. I think it really needs to be done pretty soon, because we also hear that the hedge fund is buying into Aion Bank and that the pension fund will follow that. Of course it's personal sales, but the government fund has 13% at Arion Bank. We may be looking for significant changes in the financial market. That is why I feel so urgent that we do this work and see that time is not necessarily working with us. There has been this kind of force in our economy that involves the growth of tourism and much economic growth. We also know that because Iceland's domestic product is relatively shallow, only certain movements are needed to replace a high-growing economy, there's a lot of foreign funds coming into the system, and then they bump the competitive status of other exports. This is a huge deal. I think there's some convergence at a council to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u208	President. I want to thank you. Councilmen for this excellent discussion that I find showing that members of different categories are concerned with taking to heart a material discussion of the separation of business banking and investment banking activities along with other factors that are important for the future financial vision. I agree with them. The members of the council here have mentioned that we have a unique opportunity in our hands. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and what. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. We have a great opportunity to shape now a vision, and I believe the lawgiver should, of course, take matters into his own hands in view of the fact that there is a policy of ownership where these factors are not considered for consideration, not on the separation of business banking and investment banking, not on the other sector of employment, as mentioned here, and not on the size and extent of the financial system itself. These matters, as I only came to this point, but I want to repeat, have been asked in recent years. They were being discussed in 2010 and 2013 by the Economic and Business Committee at the time, but the conclusion has always been that further development of the European Union's Regulation has not been made. We are now at this council working on a tremendous enforestation of EU regulations, but we may not be dealing with the basic questions just mentioned, to form in the structure of the financial system, the size of the financial system, compression, and separation. So I like the way I feel here and people are ready for this discussion, that's what I like. In view of the point. I hope we can get material discussions with the experts and stakeholders who are concerned. I have no comment that we are taking the matter into account in this broad context that this has been requested here, that this is part of the discussion that needs to be taken up for a vision of the financial system. However, I would like to say that there has been a measure of pressure. They're selling things in the banks, even though the state's not selling its things. It is important that we take this discussion now at this assembly so that it is quite clear what people's expectations may be. a vision of the future for an Icelandic financial system. Of course, it is worth considering to all of us how much of the financial system is supposed to be in each community. We know exactly how large the financial system had become here before the collapse and what it meant. I also feel that this is a thought - provoking point for us in this discussion. I want to take this opportunity at the end and thank you for the discussion. I hope that we can have it more often when the Economic and Business Committee has started its coverage and that we can also take this discussion at the FBI scene, in the light of the weather even. [[Step forward: bright.]] I agree with what. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, this is a case that is of great interest to the public. It is worth considering whether we believe that trust in the financial system has been established after failure. Not according to the latest trust analysis. There I believe that a clear view of the future of the government is of great importance. Hopefully, we will continue our discussion on this matter, and even in bright light, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u209	Madam President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it's 10:30 in the evening and the next meeting begins at three o'clock tomorrow. I suppose it's about 17 hours, I might be wrong about it, and today's tomorrow program has not been published on the council web. Why is this so? Why can the Council's program not lie for days ahead? Why do we need to fight through each day without knowing the next day's schedule? It doesn't have to be like that. Every school in the country puts out a program of study for every semester. It's just a traditional procedure. Here, though, we must always have the same fight to find out what we are going to do the next day. I want it to fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u210	A respectable president. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. It is surprising that tomorrow's schedule does not exist. This is the General Assembly of the Icelanders. We all want to be well prepared for a game. How should we do so when we do not know what the program is? Most of us will be in committee work at 9 p.m. I don't know where to prepare, how to do it. In most places, there's always a question of how the week is and what people are going to do, but not here. I agree with what. Senator, I find this quite remarkable. It is also remarkable how the priorities of the Council are in terms of the subject we are discussing, the drinking bill is discussed in the past part of the day, and we spend many hours, but so I repeat it again: when we are discussing the separation of business banking and investment banking activities, we do so here and the highest degree. The Secretary of Economics is not in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u211	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the emergency runway opening at Reykjavík Airfield. It's all part of the House's House of Booths. Besides me here, it's why. Arnardóttir Eagledoth, Gunnar Sveinsson Sjön, Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurzóttir, and Willum Þór Þórsson. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council would hide transport and local government minister's efforts to re-open northeastern/southwestern runway in Reykjavík, often called the Way 06/24, which in the daily language is called the Emergency Course. It is suggested that a minister employs the case with a special legal application at Reykjavíkur Airport or otherwise, and with an article from the General Plan for It's opening program at the latest in May 2017. A traverse runway leads from the north to the southwest and has been used when winds block landing on other pathways. A respectable president. The council has not been proposed to this level, but the Council of 145 was in a state of shock. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Thor Þórhallsson for the bill of the South York Airport in Watermur, issue No. 898, but its purpose was to take place in the direction that he has spent for many years in the South Pole, in Reykjavík, until the Council decided otherwise. The matter did not make it to the council program. Reykjavík's airport is the centre of an international flight in Iceland and plays a key role in the transport security of the country. Since the country's only high - tech hospital is in Reykjavík, it is important that patients from the country's area always have a clear route to the capital. Reykjavíkur Airport and his presence at the Land Hospital are very important for emergency transportation, but each minute can make a difference when patients need to be put at risk by hospital and quickly put in the right hands. It has been found that there are regular weather conditions and landings at the bridges of the Reykjavík airport, so only on the airport emergency course can you land in a rough southwest direction, which is the 06/24 runway e.g. The only runway in the southwestern corner of the country where medical planes can land. I thought that it was enough to mention an incident that took place in late 2016 when a medical plane with a patient from Cape Hornfjordur could not land in Reykjavík because of a strong southwest direction, which made it necessary to fly the patient to Akureyri. The alarm was first priority where immediate action is required. In this case, it would have been easy to land on the emergency runway. V.E.G. President. I would like to briefly explain the conduct of this case to the erring one. On June 9, 2016, at the time of the Supreme Court decision in the Icelandic court case against the city of Reykjavík, the train was closed by 06/24. With the closure of the track, the sound of the airport dropped below 95% and therefore meets the airport no longer the minimum conditions for the International Environment Agency. Many have criticized this decision, calling it a threat to national transport safety. Iceland's Aircraft Association, Air Commissioners and Farmers are among those who have criticized the decision and who have encouraged the government to work out a quick solution to this important issue until the domestic flight has been established for future relief. In support of my case, I would like to point out data from a flight group report on field options in the capital area since June 2015. It shows that when an ambulance comes from an airport that the Land Hospital will increase by 7.5 to 11.11.5 minutes from what is now if an airport was to be built in the Washing Land instead of the Hydrosmies. The duration of a hospital transport transport will be increased by 8.5κ12.5 minutes due to an increase in flying and driving time. The results of the risk-benefit analysis presented in the first part of 2014 were unanimously that the closure of runway 06/24 would have unacceptable safety consequences. In the benefit-risk assessment population A member of Iceland's Air Association, the Eagles, the Mice, the Geir Bird, the Flying Gardens, the National Guard and Isavia. The safety of the track has not been conclusively demonstrated. According to the Association Association Agency since the summer of 2015, risk assessment, Istavia risk assessment does not address the whole of the country's flying system, the Alman Guard's emergency system, the ambulance, or the financial impact on air management. A respectable president. I hope you'll give me an open hearing at the council. After the discussion, I request that the case be referred to the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u212	Madam President. It is probably not surprising that much of the Arctic Parliament's views have been established here. Of course, we know the importance of domestic flight and the importance of a medical flight, but we may be able to discern the best way to solve this problem. It's not right. the prime minister to bring the issue back a year, two years. The solution goes back to 1990 when it was decided that this emergency route would take place. Since then, I think five ministers signed a contract like this. I'd like to ask, because I don't think the matter will ever be solved and never be successful except by contracts, unless I agree, count why. A senator in view of the long delay in this closing process that the use of legislation to invalidate the Supreme Court? Counts 'em out. Is it not advisable for a senator to jump out of the pits and try to make an extensive peace with the situation so that we don't reimburse it in the event of the ground, with no solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u213	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. True, he is quite right that the matter has a much longer history and reaches a long way back. This situation has been difficult and complicated, and humans have not been able to find the landing in it. Of course, it's always best if we pick up the conversation and make deals. I'm ready to go that way and do my part so that we can sort these matters out, because things like that are unacceptable. You just can't say anything else about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u214	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. We do well to agree that it is better to make this matter settled. As I came to the end of the shooting machine, I'm afraid that if you keep planning on putting your head under, never looking at a chance to achieve solidarity, to achieve a minimum level that can combine your whole country's views, it will end by leaving the airport and without a solution, and we'll be stuck with a much worse transport system and much more uncertain. I think we need to be sensible about this. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why did the last government not work out the issue before the Supreme Court fell? Why did the last government not use it when the judgment had fallen that it would be opened to the same kind of path in Chefavík? Although she did not play such an important role, it would have at least wear a plaster on the wound. Why was nothing done?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u215	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. This is an emergency provision to re-open the emergency runway of enormous importance in all national services. [[Up front.]] I'm sure most of us in this room know someone who's had an emergency flight in this country. We need to keep these things in order. I don't trust myself, if I'm to be completely honest, to trace the history of why things went out like this during the last term. Nevertheless, this is the situation we are in today, and we want to try to move it forward. Of course, we need to place these matters all in an acceptable way for the whole country. Then I am also talking about hospital flights and services to the people throughout the country. Today, experts in the country are serving all over the country, using their flight, flying north to Akureyri. Recently, I had a conversation with a specialist who over the last seven years has flown 250 times to Akureyri to do his professional job there. It is very dignified and kind, and we can be thankful for it, but this would not be possible if the airport wasn't in Reykjavík. If Akureyri had to be driven all the time, travel would have become too long, that would complicate this, and that would make our health system worse. In some way, we need to make peace and continue to work at it. I certainly hope that we have good fortune to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u216	A respectable president. For those who expressed some interest in taking a seat in the supply lists before the last election, they should have been told: before. 11 On Tuesday night in February, you will be standing to discuss the subject of the Reykjavík airport. Then perhaps someone would have become upset. Of course, the matter is important. I'd like to thank the prime minister for a great review of the matter. I want to state that I understand the viewpoints presented here. I still don't quite understand this suggestion. I'd like to ask him why. The speaker's better at it. In an antiquated story of an expert who was flying to Akureyri for the third hundred times, there was a drive. the first person may be involved in many of the underlying issues in this matter, but it is that the relevant expert is not present in Akureyri but has to fly high to 300 times a year. This may be the root of the problem when it comes to health care, not how the airport works. I'd like to ask, because of what. First - Þórunn Egilsdóttir presents herself prepared for negotiation and will agree, whether this is a suggestion to be settled, that after the U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the government's legal arrangements, the decision of Reykjavíkurburg is decided in favor, and here in a certain way taken up before the courts and agency in Reykjavík, pushed aside by legalization at the General Assembly. It's what it is. A senator's goal to achieve the peace she spoke to?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u217	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his counter-sponsored response. This case is urgent. A man doing some medical transfers in this country thinks it's crazy. This is the only runway leading this current course. Only if you know that a runway is capable will you start off in the unstable weather. In reality, humans have taken off on flight, knowing that only this course is capable. In addition, weather conditions have changed along the way, and there could have been a different landing, but they would not have started unless these were certain. As to whether this is a way to settle, I think this is a way to save what will be saved now if there's no other way to settle this. It seems that we have some time now. I restate on the fact that if we make it fast and safely forward, through the conversation and content, this track will be opened and patient-controlled flight security will be assured and greatly improved, I'm ready to do so. But I think this is some kind of action we might need to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u218	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, and I'd like to ask a little bit more questions about the suggestion, because as if I came in a little bit earlier, I don't quite understand what it is. Of course it can just be me. But it's fine to get an explanation. How can you tell? paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, and other shipping officials, realize that a government minister of transportation and rural government is responsible for this? What do the movers see to it that the secretary of transportation and rural management is doing? Are we being encouraged to converse with the mayor? Or is it being encouraged that if this is done against the mayor's will by some authority, it will be? Hv. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir says it's an emergency. The proposal itself shows that the secretary of transportation and local government should inform the General of the Action Programme and its contents as late as May 2017. Hides in this any timeout other than that, i.e. become reality, and by means of ways that I hope to do it. A senator explains to me how a minister should come about? How long will this emergency plan last? If it is until another solution has been found on national or international emergency routes opened up elsewhere or even the health system has been improved, which may now be a little in the future, then we are expected to be looking at a lot of intervention into the city's planning system, which has already taken all the way to the Supreme Court, where the State lost its case. But most of all, I would like to get an explanation of how a minister should do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u219	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbbi Óttarsson Proppér for an answer a second time. The suggestion says: The General concluded that transport and rural government officials will be reassigned to the northeastern/southwestern runway in Reykjavík, airport, as soon as possible. Ministers have this action plan planned and the General Information on its contents is no longer available in May 2017.• This is a short time. But the matter is also extremely urgent. We cannot wait for the health system to be fixed. What does it mean to fix the health system? There are many good things there, and there is another discussion. But that means we cannot wait for it. This case is urgent. The events have taken place that this course had to be used, and it could not be done. It's unacceptable. We do not want people to have different safety and resources about this. We have to keep this to the best of our resources, so we call for a minister to go into it, to find solutions. I'm not going to tell a minister exactly how to work. It's not in my power, and it's not in my field. But I want him to go through it and do his work fast and fast. Of course, people need to be called, they need to have some conversation and some consultation, I don't doubt it. But it's no longer working.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u220	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity here to discuss the affairs of the Reykjavík airport. There are many opinions in this regard. It's, for example. it is possible to believe that, no matter what, Reykjavík's airport is to go. People have chosen to do that, and that's what they should be. It is possible to believe that the airport is due, but another airport should be built somewhere in the capital area. You can have a conditioned opinion that humans are available to move the airport, but we must first find another good place in the capital area. Then you can be absolutely aware that the airport is supposed to be in the Watermelon, no matter what. In fact, these four opinions have all been held in recent district elections by the Agency in Reykjavík. 2002 was the leading group of R-lists who were then planning to move the airport, 2006 was Björn Ingi Hrafnsson Hjörn Páll of the University of Reykjavík, and wanted to transfer it to the Lönsk, 2010 was the Einar Sulkernson Skúlason of the Future Party, and spoke of moving the airport if there was a solution, 2014, the Agency offered it up under the standards of advance attendance and airport parks, and it clearly indicates what position they had there. There had been only a difference of opinion, unfortunately, no less opinion on this matter, but of course, humans can change their mind. The matter must be considered in a certain story and in a specific context. Of course, it's not that its history has recently started, as it has just been, but in 2013 it was really a matter of steel on the part of the city of Reykjavík and the State. Reykjavíkurburg had planned to move the field, to work hard in it, and to take it out of the main group of Reykjavíkurburg, while the government planned to keep it in the water mine. It was headed for a very ugly conflict in this regard. What could have happened is that Reykjavíkurburg could have created such a major organization that a minister could either have refused to sign it or used the legal process. She would have gone to court, all the way to the Supreme Court, where their affairs would have been tested by local planning agents. This did not occur because a minister in the then government, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir, the daughter of Kristunns, was working on a solution in this matter. From 2013 onward, the solution is shown on the pages of a national flight Convention. That agreement contained several things. First, there would be a committee that would check the benefits of another airport situation. That committee did a good job and produced a certain breadwinner, indicating that the Whaleshawk could be considered an option for airports. Second, there was an addition to this agreement, which was just about a multiplicity northeastern/southwest highway. There are some points there. In dot two says, by permission of the President: ▪ Work will be completed in reviewing a field strategies and the closing of the northeast/west along with the advertisement, later this year. At the same time, the current budget for the Reykjavík airport should be reviewed accordingly. Of course, when such an agreement is made, the first thing to say is that we're going to meet here halfway, we're going to make this agreement, and then if the result, for example. from some point of view on the airport isn't exactly what humans like, the state of state, and they start doing the things they say in the agreement that they can do, the state power goes up to their hands and feet, and they plan to set some rules that would put them to do the original thing. To be brief, of course, I have an understanding of the views available here. But I can't agree that this is a good way to make peace, for example. The local community on this matter. So I don't see how I can support the progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u221	Madam President. I thought why. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek confuses things with the Rackham Committee and then responsibly with Jón Gnarr's agreement and Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir. That agreement, about northeast/west, was signed on October 21, 2013. Then comes part of this agreement with the Rackham Committee. The Rackham Commission's conclusion at the time was that the best development option was Hashshaun. This has been a huge misunderstanding for quite a while, including years. has been unable to get what they were talking about properly by those who have been serving at the Rackham Committee, considering how this was so interpreted. While there were other advantages, there was a better option, but with the Whale test, people were thinking that it would eventually be like the airport that is in Chefavík. The flight could be moved there. That's what it all worked out. This has come, e.g. No way, because the paths of Chefavík were not thought to be as far off as they could go. I felt a little brief between the two points in the talk. With regard to the agreement between then mayor and then Minister of the Interior, it was an agreement between the two. It's very special to read the agreement you have. It's made up of this sort of thing, bad language, e.g. what happens in the deal. [[The president calls.]] But I just want to show you how to study this and not confuse these two.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u222	Madam President. Just so it comes out, it is true that it is on the one hand to discuss an domestic flight that signed Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Eggertsson Jón Gnarr, Mayor of the United States, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir B., and Minister of the Council of the City, as well as President Björgólfur Jóhannsson, director of Iccelandir Group, and then, in his company, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristán, who signed an agreement on the closure of the northeastern/west highway. This was done at one ceremony and at the same time. Certainly, one could see that none of us felt as comfortable when signing this agreement. But it was written. Of course, with the agreement between the Minister of Birna Kristjánsdóttir the Interior and the Hanna of State, there is nothing personal between them, there is a certain commitment between the Minister of the State. The Court has certainly interpreted it in that way. Of course, we'd be going a little far here, there's nothing to belittle it, and of course, this hall, with one or another, can decide to try to use a law code and see if it can resist a constitution. But it would, of course, be violating this particular agreement, which the court has now confirmed is binding on the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u223	Madam President. I've got to make a comment again on the whole deal. A senator is quoting from October 25, 2013: If you look at the document more closely, these are the two documents. That's the second document you're quoting from, signed by Birna Kristjánsdóttir, then the Minister of the Interior. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u224	President has to ask. A senator to address others. Senators in a proper way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u225	Yeah. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek. These are, in these cops that I think you're wearing, two different meeting passes. They are not signed at the same time. Another is signed some minutes later, that is a agreement between the then mayor and the local Minister of the Interior and is a special contract where there are three requirements for what to do. You can see them signatures on the papers you have in your hands...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u226	President must be less than a man. The senator is to address the members of the council in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u227	I hope so. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek has that understanding. If you read the documents again, it is quite clear how this is going to be so. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's just a misunderstanding. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u228	A respectable president. I realize that there are two documents, and I realize that they are not the same people who sign them. But there is no point in this subject. The key point is that the second document was certainly written by a representative of the Icelandic government during that time, and a court has decreed that this document is binding on the Icelandic government. Then, of course, we can say that the government fulfilled the other part of the contract by making a specific inspection. All right. But the other part of the agreement, the agreement that the party will complete a review of the field division and that closing north-east/south highway will be announced along with its advertisement, that part remains. True, it may be difficult for the State to believe that its representatives signed such a agreement at the time, but it was done, and a court has concluded that this commitment is binding to the Icelandic State.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u229	A respectable president. It must be a political rivalry in a civilized world to arrange for the public to have the best access to emergency health care. It has now come to the point where opportunities to land medical planes in the area near the country's best facility have dropped since the northeastern/southwestern course of the field was closed. This route, known as 06/24, has been called an emergency highway, and has almost only been used when the two waters of the field cannot be hit because of adverse weather conditions. During the brief period since the track was closed, the MEV medical planes had to disappear at least 3 times, i.e. Couldn't land on the field. But for all of this, it was better than watching, since the Hospital House of Akureyri was able to provide needed service to the patients. Arrangers'hospital, though it is the best place for the country's hospitals outside the Land Hospital, is not to appoint experts in all aspects of medicine. Surely, there is not enough equipment like the land hospital. As a result, they cannot deal with all the emergency situations, whether the most serious accident or the most serious illness. This proposal for Congress is not an example of an outlawing of the terms of reconciliation in this dispute that goes back to life at a council here tonight. We are reminded that this need to be considered in a larger context, and it is sad that something much earlier has not been taken into consideration. Then I'm referring to a total medical flight. A report by the National Review Research Centre from August 2013 on medical flights in Iceland discusses the possible access of the National Reconnaissance as a means of emergency transport. I'm going to allow myself to read a small fraction of that report, with the permission of the president: The ultimate evidence that the entire area of the United States is a better use of human resources, equipment, and its facilities as well as a greater safety profile. Acute flight service would be more complete than now, where hospital flight requests and rescues would pass through a single channel, i.e. The governor's station for the National Reservation Guard. This gave rise to economic foundations, which over the past few years financed their operations in part by means of ships and airplanes to foreign lands. The safety of residents, travelers, and mariners at the West, North and Eastern countries has finally been pointed out to be the key to safety if there was a position in the Northland. The National Guard's helicopter serves these parts only to a limited extent, including ... fromfromSacrifice. While in this country (January 1, 2006), the army of the guard assisted the National Guard (October 1, 2006). Thereafter, the status of helicopter service in the country had to be reassessed. A report on the service carried out by the Minister of Justice and Church Affairs in 2006 found that the efficiency and security of operations required that the helicopter rescue team have a base in one place and in association with the National Recontinental Guard headquarters. Was considered to be suitable, since the helicopters took one of the most ill and injured to a hospital in Reykjavík. However, a professional in hospital transportation felt that even if one or more of the U.S. National Reservation Guards were to be kept in other places than Reykjavík, it was possible to secure business security. It also pointed out that flying time could be shortened by tracking helicopters outside the capital area, e.g. ... innoreastland. Thus, it would be shorter to get the sick and injured from the country to the sea. The main reasons given against the location of helicopters outside the city of Reykjavík are that the cost may be high, e.g. For the payment of day money to the crew of the helicopters. In many estimates, helicopters are still needed outside the capital area and have, for example, the need for helicopters. it has been looked forward to the examination of theálventilator's examination of the medical flight. In July 2012, the director of the National Guard expressed interest in her taking in the entire hospital flight, even speaking. In a radio interview, it was best to combine all the medical flights in the country. In the media, the fire chief of Akureyri acknowledged that Akureyri was good for both a helicopter and a hospital flight. He even pointed out. that national security would be better assured by placing helicopters outside the capital area because of the threat of natural disasters that could inhibit flight there. A respectable president. It is clear that much water will flow to sea before a final solution can be obtained in this major problem. However, we have to try to make sure that all the people in Iceland have access to the country's high-tech hospital, the only thing we have, here in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u230	Madam President. I reiterate what I said before, most of my life, I have lived far away from Reykjavík, in the country. I am totally aware of the importance of equal housing, security, and so forth that there is a strong international flight and good transport to the capital. It is also clear that in this small country in which we live, there is a tremendous need for access to medical flights. I'd like to support a solution like this if it had fallen to create peace, if it was likely to pass the constitution and lead the case to a conclusion, but unfortunately I don't think so. I've been in this discussion for years in the countryside. I've got a lot of money, and I've been put into writing, and it's claimed that I'm some sort of traitor, a patriot for having a different view of the matter for release, but in general I have been promoted, and maybe the most popular place where I live. However, the reason why I have had that viewpoint is that I believe that it is more likely that we will be able to land this case and if we settle, we will be able to resolve it. I believe that the human race that has come to the moon can find an acceptable solution to technical problems such as where to land or how to transfer patients, because while the transport of an ambulance to a hospital or the flight of an ambulance can be extended by a few minutes in new locations, we have other ways to reduce the overall time it takes for a man to get hurt and until he has reached a safe place in a good hospital. It does not necessarily matter which end, even if it is shortened, it may be better to do it as soon as possible. You see, the issue is a very long one. This was the only part of the agreement signed on October 25, 2013. Let's just hang on to it. There I'm going to pick up the thread, where it's cool. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek finished his case. These two contracts were signed in the same hour, in the same place, with the same people. Why are these two pags? It is in nature. Another piece signed by Sigmundur Jón Gnarr, Mayor Birna Kristjándótttir, Secretary Kristjánsdóttir State, Dagur B. Eggertsson, chairman of City Council, and Björgólfur Jóhannsson, director of Icelandir Group, is a review and investigation of other options for airports. The other is the need to clear up an emergency route. Why isn't this one piece of paper? Did it occur to you that the president of Illelands was signing such a document or that others do not? It's just for pragmatic reasons. It is false that former prime minister, why. paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, didn't know about both documents. However, the matter goes far beyond that. The case goes back to 1990 when the then minister decides that northeastern/south highway must be stopped and closed. Since then, many have written, including in the 2001 issue of Friðrik Pálsson, the chairman of the Hollvina Reykjavíkur Airport, introduces a transportation centre in Reykjavík. Where would that transportation center be? Yes, she was supposed to be on top of the emergency runway. A 2005 pass on transport centre and closing of the third circuit. Transport centre and agreement for closing the third circuit of 2009, the third Minister, now Minister of the United States, formerly Minister of Independence. Meeting on air station and closing third runway 2013, Minister of the Left Green, Ögmundur Jónasson. Then this is what we were talking about, the agreement between the Independent Party and the mayor of Reykjavík. The problem with this proposal is that no courts would come to the conclusion that this was an emergency because the issue has been followed for 25 years. If this had come from a ministry like this, ordered shut-down, it might have been tested, but not when it must have been so long. However, the problem is just as bad. It's a curse to lose this path now. So we need to act in an upbuilding way and try to settle matters. There aren't many years since other people now fighting for the existence of this track expressed themselves, so I'll witness at the moment. Friðbertsson On Njáll of Trausti Fitzherbertsson at the 2013 Independence Party meeting, president of the United States: It has two permanent runways for the first time. - The proposal was adopted by a critical number of delegates. For the last four, five years, it has not been clear that this course was so necessary. Now it may be, but it would be good to know what huge changes have been made in circumstances or weather, which makes it now. If we have made such changes, how bad it is that we have entered that position! I reiterate that I'm as worried as I am. An executive for the situation to be such. But we can discern the means to resolve the matter permanently. My opinion is that the only way that is capable of finding a solution that all the people of the country can agree, maybe nobody will be satisfied, maybe losing all the details of the case, but that is the nature of agreements. I think it would be a step in the right direction if the current government worked hard to obtain, sell, or other options to Reykjavíkurburg so that the city of Reykjavík could continue building on the inside and not have to take action in the next few years at the Reykjavík airport, so it would have time and space to find other solutions. It certainly came out a report on the basis of the agreement we had discussed earlier. Even there was a number of them. Pointed out that the whale test could be a suitable option. Now it may be the right thing to do. paritaprevir The soundness of Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, that they had some larger building ideas in mind, that may be, but the airport would be a pretty good way, I think, to combine that viewpoint with respect and give the city a chance to build up as it pleases and at the same time make sure that we, the people of the country who need it, will be happy for us. I reiterate that I declare responsibility for those who beat their heads against the stone and refuse to take sides, refuse to make peace. If the airport leaves without a second solution, their responsibility is theirs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u231	A respectable president. We certainly have an important subject here, one that has been in conflict for far too long. I couldn't agree more. Einarsson The importance of making peace with this matter is the thought of the son of Einar. Then it's good to know that one of the top-level policy files. The government is preparing a solution for this decades of a debate over the future of the city of Reykjavík airport by starting a formal discussion of the transport authorities, the health authorities, the city of Reykjavík, other rural society, and stakeholders. I think it's really important. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator what releases him, most likely. I heard that he mentioned earlier that if I noticed just so late in the evening, the city of Reykjavík would have to be built on the inside. I myself believe there was no need, there is plenty of land to build on the capital site, but it would be nice to hear more from the senator about it because I know he knows a lot about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u232	President wants less of it. The senator should address the subject. Senators in a proper way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u233	Excuse me, Mr President, if I've failed, but I've just referred to what. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson and I know what to do. A senator knows this matter quite well from many sides. I'd like to hear if I could. A senator has this solution that we've been waiting so long for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u234	Madam President. No, I don't have the solution. However, I pointed out a solution that I like or enjoy. Then let's just see if she's good for flying reasons and other reasons. You see, I'm made to feel that politicians are supposed to take care of policy and set goals. The aims may be to travel from A to B at a certain rate and at a certain cost, then there are others, engineers, and others who find the solution. I'm going to a car parties and I'm buying a car because I need to get around, but I don't buy parts and put them together. We should be much more diligent in settling what is needed to resolve the matter, what it takes to make the country's settlement, and the capital's agreement, the quality requirements we are going to set, the security requirements we are going to set. Then there's the technical output we can work on once it's been placed on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u235	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator says we should use ourselves for solutions. I'm sitting right there. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will receive this synopsis proposal for discussion. I really hope that we can talk us down on a few solutions. I also rely on the highest. The government will bring the solutions that have been aimed at the government business. I agree that it is important for us at the council to cooperate with the other administrative level, which is the unital level and, of course, the organizational matters of the country. This is a case that has been in conflict, and this is where the interests of the country and the capital are involved, but we must still be able to find a solution to that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u236	Madam President. First, I'm going to state that, in fact, I am celebrating the government's administration covenant in this regard and found in it a good tone. On the other hand, I believe that over the long term, the planning of Reykjavík's city can become a matter of planning for other rural society, even though it may be of some short - term interest. Hv. A senator said that this is where the interests of the capital and the settlements of the country are under way. I think there's a solution in this case that makes it better, which makes it a better solution for both the capital and the country. To do so, however, we need to be open and forgiving.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u237	Madam President. I suppose that's what. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson is quoting a 1990 report, which reminds me that Álfheiður Ingadóttir was in charge. The report in itself is of no importance to Icelandic government. Let me explain. Right on page 8. 2 says: ▪ In addition to government decision-making on what would be considered an acceptable risk to the Aviation of the Aviation Airport in Watermem, the directors concluded that a risk assessment of the city's city's end would require more extensive and more specific research than if it were available for the Commission's decision on what would be considered an acceptable risk to the Aviation of the Marine Airport. This meant that the report never came on the table of a pilot or anywhere in the administration, so it in itself has no meaning, for the committees simply said: "We don't have the knowledge to handle the case. Regarding what the Senator enters, members of the United States have been quite interested in referring to the 2013 National Conference of Independence Party - in fact, I tried to get another release at a national meeting that covered all three circuits. There was an opposition to this in some elements in Reykjavík. Like what? Logi As Már as our first contact was establishedEinarsson I had no idea of this 2013. There is only much more knowledge in this matter over the years, and there has been a much better study than there was in the past. That is the real conclusion. I want to ask you why. A senator: How, then, should we resolve the matter? Hv. A senator wants to speak for policy and surveillance in the politics, but I'm also for the people and their security interests. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about now, about the security of people around the country. [[The president calls.]] How should this be solved for a shorter time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u238	Madam President. I also stood in the sense that I was in the hands of the people. First. How should we resolve the matter? I don't know, and that's the problem that we're facing when it went out like this. I'm just pointing out that I believe that the lead is that this closing is so long that after the Supreme Court court has failed to intervene in his hands, we are forced to find another solution. Let us find another solution, but let's not argue that the thing is exactly what it has always been or not. Let's find another solution that would be at least is acceptable, although it may not be as good at the moment. But I'm sure we'll have a better solution for the future. It may well be that in 1990, the proposal for the Commission of Transport has no administrative value. So let's just sit back and go to the next step, which is the samkomulag of Mayor Sturla Bírsson, the transport minister við Valdís Oscar's daughter from 2005. [[A talker tears a blade.]] Well, then it must have some legal value. It's been years since. Still, the case has had such a long turn. I ask, "Why are the members of Congress sitting here right now demanding that something be done when they do nothing in the last few years? " Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u239	Madam President. I just repeat what I said earlier, that in the past few years, the knowledge that has come into the matter is more detailed. You can continue to tear down an agreement that is from before that time. I'm going to point out something else that may be presented in my speech after; the risk assessment here about the year, comments from the Association for Risk Assessments, and other things that are now evident from IkuA. The Social Security Committee for Professionals asked, and now you have an answer. The answer is: Risk assessment was based on false reasoning. It's just that. Since then, government decisions have been taken, such as at Reykjavíkurburg, and this report is based on reports that are actually not valid. Should we not also consider the right procedure and the sound of information? Regarding the judgments, I would like to point out that in June last year's district court, a judge arranged a prescription on how the state might respond to this security issue. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The judges were only about the authority of a minister but never about the safety of the common people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u240	Madam President. There may be new knowledge that has seriously changed this matter. As a result, technology has also moved ahead, making it easier to do things. Let us, though, leave it to each other. Here we are not arguing that the situation is serious. Here, we are merely arguing the best way to solve it. I think that's impossible. I'm not going to go on reviews. I'm not an expert in them, nor am I in the position of seizing a Supreme Court. Let us now focus on finding a solution so that we do not make it some political fox for the next few years that are suitable for the four - year election advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u241	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir LogiEinarsson" is going here. I would like to read this suggestion again. It reads like this, with the permission of a president. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The General concluded that transport and rural government officials will be reassigned to the northeastern/southwestern runway in Reykjavík, airport, as soon as possible. Ministers have this action plan planned and the General Information on its contents is no longer available in May 2017.• Here we are urging ministers to continue working toward the goals they have set for themselves. We are not trying to do something for him. It says why. Einarsson We're gonna go somewhere that's not right here. I'm asking the senator to consider it a little bit more carefully and to take care of his words in this case, because this is the case. This is an incentive for a minister to work fast and safely on the case because this is an emergency. We need to respond. As noted in the case Friðbertsson what? There have been new information, and new information Njáll a review. So, then, can't this way cause people to come together, discuss things over again, and go forward and find solutions that are appropriate for the whole country and for all of us here? I'm just asking. Isn't that the way? Don't we want extra security? That's all I'm hearing from the senator. I don't see that we don't agree on this. Let's just do it, work it out, and figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u242	Madam President. Here's the thing to break up in the first round. I agree with that, if that's how we're going to do it. But now I'm so simple that I believed that the story of a carrier was part of the case. Do I lose memory, or did she say the words of a legal or otherwise in her speech? ' If it isn't, I'm sorry, and if it doesn't, I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... But I'm almost sure that I heard the word "How many songs, " which I heard. That's what I'm warning you. It's pointed out from the outside of the hall of what? paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson that it's in the Congress resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u243	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Speaking of words, I said: "It's possible for a minister to take advantage of the case by special legal action in the city of Reykjavík or other ways. ' It must fall under other means, not to recommend only one course of legalization. If it were the only way, it would have to be. Of course, I hope that we can make peace and lead in this matter, which we all agree with. This is a serious and serious situation. The Senator spoke of evolution in a variety and could be shortened to one end. It may well be in hospital transportation and so forth. But a farmer whose stroke is on the northeast corner - time it doesn't come the way it is now, but it can be shortened at the other end right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-28-36.u244	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. A senator writes that it is of utmost importance that we work hard and make a lot of money helping people living in the more scattered parts of the country. The problem is relatively small, on the way of Akureyri, in view of the weapons of the United States, at the end of the day. I'm well aware of that. We've got a lot of work to do. I guess there's still a shortcut. The only thing we're missing is that I think a songing is an excluded way to get it out. I think it's a dangerous step that would eventually take on a lot more societies, even though they call for it now.
