ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u1	The president assumes that there will be a vote at about 1 00 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u2	To answer, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Transport and Regional Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u3	Madam President. V.E.G. For example, during the first day of the media, the minister of finance said that the situation in currency was so serious that we had to watch some very radical solutions, or words of the highest degree. Minister, with permission of presidents: We cannot have this floating currency. This is not supposed to be a roller coaster. I was wondering what to do with the highest level of action. Minister's turning. Of course, I thought about it in view of the highest. A minister has produced a financial program that is proclaimed tax losses that obviously make the economy even worse to cope with the spell than it already has already been. Obviously, at the highest. Ministers not in changing tax policy to reduce the amount of money in traffic. In view of our highest policy. Minister and his party will have two radical solutions in mind, and I would like to ask the highest. Minister: Is he referring to a fixed policy with a currency plan, as we know elsewhere? Is he referring to the entry into the European Union and the recording of the euro or the recording of any other currency? What is the most radical solution. A minister of ours? V.E.G. Ministers have also ignored the present system of currency. A top-level money policy committee is now active. Governments and I'm asking: What is the position of the government community if the result of the money policy committee continues to float with an inflation goal? With any national emissary equipment right now? Will this government continue? It's the highest. After saying that the present arrangement is ruined, a minister of finance was accepted? It's the highest. Ministers even putting pressure on the results of the money policy committee, that there will be some drastic solutions, and what are these radical solutions, Mrs. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u4	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that I and others have seen that it is a serious matter when a currency so rapidly turns around, as has been the Icelandic crown for the past two years, but it certainly has not been possible for the scholarship. Granted, there are ways to take action. We know what has been done, that the bat has been buying, but he has declared that he is planning to reduce measures. We've taken away the budget, so now we can have Icelandic companies, individuals, and pension funds invested abroad, and bought currency, stock markets, and other things. Although I truly respect the independence of the Secret Bank Penitentiary Committee, I have believed that one of the main factors is that the growth differences between Iceland and abroad were as low as anything, so I have encouraged the growth of my numbers. There are other measures, but these are key. In fact, I have also encouraged the pension fund to expand my investments abroad. It's not right. A senator that I offer taxes. Changes in the worth tax system include the transfer of certain items and subsequent declines of others. [[The president calls.]] But in the latter part of my reply, I will come near to that in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u5	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister cannot come here to list what has already been done. He showed up for an interview last day and said that this time a radical solution would be needed to get a hold of the currency. He also showed up for another interview in euros, probably not because nothing else was clean in his home. V.E.G. Minister is sending a message. He needs to speak to the Allied Parliament about his radical solutions. Witnessing to what has already been done is not enough. He needs to tell us where he's headed. I guess the highest is going. A minister does not continue to sit in a house that he has already declared has yet to collapse. We haven't heard no party at all. A minister will open any of the radical solutions mentioned earlier. We need to figure out where the highest is. Iceland's financial and economic secretary wants to go to currency and what radical solutions he's reporting. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u6	Madam President. It's very complicated. It's no secret to be heading for the election's Action Programme. There's a way we've been introducing to others, and I know that many have taken an interest in them. The Government's policy declaration refers to the environment of the money policy where creation will become a new money policy that aims to reduce the swing of the crown's gangs. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] President. Is a conversation allowed here in the hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u7	The speaker who stands in the public speaker's public assembly has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u8	He'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u9	Is a conversation allowed between presidents and senators? I...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u10	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u11	Now my speech session is over, but hopefully I'll have a little extra time in view of a disturbance. [[Up front.]] It is true that the currency business of the currency, the crown, is linked to a foreign currency, and there I see the radical solution I have spoken about. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u12	President. First, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on issues related to financial programmes. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u13	The president asks for a better sound in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u14	First, there is a lack of action at the General Assembly, and the minister has repeatedly testified that if we are allowed to disunite the process, which is, of course, an amazing disrespect for the Council of Justice. But more importantly, there is absolute uncertainty as to what this strategy involves. When it comes to stating that this five - year program is binding, the members of the administration and management committees feel that they are missing something of the government's campaigns for health or other community foundation measures, it is possible to respond to the lack of financial resources in these sectors by altering financial laws. Is that right, chief? Secretary of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson? Is this a flexible frame that can be changed from year to year? Or is it a five - year plan that should be strictly adhered to? I'd also like to reiterate the council's demand for access to disunition. First of all, a change in proposals cannot be made; what if any adjustment is accepted here, we don't know how it will affect another budget team that is related to a financial plan, and it's very serious. This means that we senators, as well as members of the greater part, have a very difficult time offering tips and suggestions on how the plan should look after the General treatment. Or maybe that's how it is, chief. Secretary of finance, that the council should have nothing to do with the government's financial or financial fees? Is that solely clear on the executive authority's hand? If so, it must be a violation of the constitution. Or what's the bottom line. A minister of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u15	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I have to say, and I've been through it quite often, that with the budget, we're putting the budget frames on the individual categories. We could say that if we were setting a total budget frame on the kingdom, we would be deciding that the total budget is 800 billion, not 750, or any other number. That is the decision we are making now when discussing financial programs. This is a very important process, a process that has been in many other places. We're learning something about it. But there we put the frames around the issues, how much to go on every subject. That's what they asked me for. The legal committee, to what extent the frame was flexible. I think we should take this frame very seriously, but we must, of course, be able to cope if circumstances change. I can mention examples we've seen in a year and a year ago, in which suddenly a large number of inmates were multiplies, and we had to respond even if financial expenses were not approved. In fact, there are a number of cases that the Parliament recognizes of the kind that must always arise. While we generally agree to a five - year frame, we change it every year to the International Assembly. Of course, I respect the authority of the Generals in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u16	President. I thought it was a rather hairy answer if I was to say exactly what it is. If the highest. A minister would respect the Council of the Council would provide the information that has been called upon here. I want to inform the highest. Minister that if we don't get this information, we can't accept this frame. It's just that way. Coming to another question. February 3rd. is made up of the following statements on the Ministry of finance, by permission of the president: The government intends to make public access to financial information from the state. An important step in this situation will be taken in mid- March when the tissue opens accounts.is will be opened. It is also stated that work started last year, and most of it is done. This was reported less than four months ago. It's been two and a half months since an open bill was due. What's the reason this project has been delayed by two and a half months, tops. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u17	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. Senator, the project has been delayed. However, this has not meant that the work has not been done fully. The project has been prepared, but it has only taken longer. There have been comments and tips e.g. From character protection. I'm very interested in this project, as I have expressed at the Senate, and I hope it will work out as quickly as possible. I just have to admit, though, that it's been slower than I hoped, yet the tips that have been presented have certainly been right. I'm expecting them to see the site when the web takes off. I hope it's as soon as possible. I'm afraid to promise anything, but hopefully it'll be before the fall, perhaps before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. During the weekend, the minister expressed his concern for the sponsorship of the crown. Of course, such an exaggeration is not necessary. Industry in exporting enterprises fall apart, but there are, of course, less available for consumers. So the situation is sour. The late bank issued an announcement earlier in the previous week, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ The bank's high rates of currency in recent years have led to a huge expansion of the way that makes it impossible for these regular purchases to be needed at this time. So they will be stopped starting next week. For a player, this arrangement seems very special. If there was any reason to eliminate the crown's overpriced gangs with regular purchases of currency, the need seems now to be gone. This morning's reports are that foreign companies are beginning to invest in federal bonds again, but the purchases stopped when the Sullen made a special charge in June 2016 after we had approved it here at the council. Today, according to the newsletter's check sheet, foreign funds are reported to have invested for several billions more in federal accounts for the rest of this month. In view of how much money I have grown, I would like to ask the highest. Minister to see if he agrees with the Federal Bank that now is the time to stop the regular purchase of currency. Second, I would like to ask a minister if he believes that if the Sustainer reduces his wages, he will stop getting stronger. Third, I'd like to ask a minister if he believes that the growth trade has played a significant role in the development of Iceland's economy on the side of the autumn 2008 and whether he is concerned with taking action to support this business that is now under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u19	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I hear he shares my concerns with a lot of others of this great boost to the crown. It's like a whisk. A senator rightly says, sour. Of course, consumers rejoice when goods from abroad become less expensive, but they can come to our back when they face threats when they lose their jobs. Some have a salary that is directly linked to foreign currency, e.g. sailors. I'm not sure this operation is the best, but I'm not in charge. Like what? A senator knows there's a lot of freedom there, both in interest of interest and in these interventions. I had not heard of these purchases of bonds, but there is a tool that is involved in the binding of currency approved during the last council and has proved successful. However, I had heard that foreign parties were buying some of the stocks. It's getting bigger. I can answer why. A senator was absolutely clear that I believe that the wax - crumbling trade that occurred in 2008 brought us to disaster. I'm sure that's exactly where we agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is evident not only from this answer but also from previous inquiry that a minister is afraid to give a very clear answer. The radical solution he spoke of in his previous reply is evidently a currency counsel. There is no common agreement in the government. The government business is very upset. I'd like to add one more question. It has been discussed, especially in the category of ministers, that the Icelandic crown's gang should be connected with a coin basket or a foreign currency, which appears to be the highest claim. Minister. Tells you the highest. Do not ministers that by letting the crown become firm hope and thus undermine the export industry, the right circumstances will arise in order to bind the crown's gangs to foreign coins or coin baskets? Will not the inactivity and inactivity of the government and possibly of the Council Bank lead to that conclusion? [[The president calls.]] Can a minister explain what suggestions are on the way?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u21	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, the idea of a currency or other fixed connection between the crown and either a certain foreign coin or a coin basket is not a policy but a single rate. The restoration has proclaimed that course. However, in the fall of that year, I was aware that many people were snorkeling. The senators I spoke to after the election were interested in learning more about this. I hope this committee's work will lead to more interest in it. But I can answer that in no uncertain terms. A senator asks that the more the cost the cost of export work continues to grow, the more difficult the situation becomes for exporting roads. I'm so worried about that, I wasn't worried about it during the campaign, after the election, and they don't have to worry about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u22	Madam President. V.E.G. Prior to last year, the prime minister, point, and foreman of the government, when he was a minister of finance and economics to choose between a man and a woman in a management position in the Ministry of finance. At least a panel of emissaries had assessed the woman as qualified as the man, and it is clear that it involves women in government jobs in the Ministry. The Court's assessment of equality was to the highest level. A minister would have violated equality laws, for the law is clear that when leaning on the second sex and for such qualified individuals, the sex should be determined. This clear law ignored the highest. The prime minister decided to hire the man, thus breaking an equal law. V.E.G. Prior to this, Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, had expressed his firm view that a minister who violates equality law should immediately resign, but he does not insist on himself as he sits. The current minister of the Revolution, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, former vice president of the Independence Party, also went to great lengths in the discussions at the time, claiming that a minister who received such a decree would be in deep shit, as she put it then. Now, however, you don't hear anything in the highest. a seafaring minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, though such a offense committed her former platoon and a close associate. And now Þörger Þorgerður, the Katrín of Gunnarsdóttir, sits in the government claiming to give special attention to equality. But what does it say? Justice Minister? Does he not consider it serious that the prime minister himself has so clearly violated equality laws? It was the highest. Justice Minister pleased with the Prime Minister's response to the Commission's decision? Will he demand that equality be practiced and that there be consequences if it is violated? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u23	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I'm not going to judge who will resign in such cases. I felt that it was a great political game at the time when this discussion began. The objective of the equality in this context is, not to hang some bag on the political authority at any given time, but to ensure the progress of the equality, to ensure equality between the sexes of the labour market, and especially in the public. This is the key point of the case that here is the basis for the definition of candidates and eventually the course to be taken in this case to appeal the case to the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities, which leads to a different conclusion. Of course, it is the responsibility and responsibility of the government to respond in the way possible in the situation that may vary from time to time. It is extremely important to have this resource, to be respected and used where necessary, and how important it is that it uses us to ensure the progress of equality in the labour market, and especially in the public. It is then in the hands of the Ministry of Economics now to respond to this particular decision and how to handle it. I have full confidence that the current secretary of finance, along with the Ministry's administration, will do so in the right and effective way. I reiterate, however, that the main purpose of ensuring equality in the labour market, within the administration and securing a better balance in government management areas. Surely, then, all of us must agree to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u24	Madam President. How's the top? Justice Minister to secure what he preaches here? I want to agree with the government's declaration on equality, saying that equality in a broad sense is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. It's true. But how's the big one? Justice Minister to help you do that? The failure of the prime minister was clear. It was as qualified as he broke the law. He must have known, for he had spoken a lot about the laws in a case that was not, in fact, comparable because individuals had not been as ecstatic. I'd like to ask the highest. Justice Minister: How will he react if this happens again in the government? If any minister fails to violate equality laws, will he take action or demand something? [[The president calls.]] Or does he simply agree that the terms of equality are recent to use for political purposes to strike opposers? Or we can be sure that it will even help us to do so. To ensure equality in the Board of Directors?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u25	A respectable president. I repeat again in my answer to the question of why. A senator's claim that the instrument is not a political attack. Rather, it guarantees equality within the administration and the labour market in general. Today, members of the council are in a position of government opposition, who were once in violation of equality laws to criticize and demand resignation. The situation was wrong when others took the lead. [[Up front.]] It's simply a political game I don't feel like participating in. The equality is the key. They need to ensure equality and the execution of the law. That's what counts. In this context, we are working very hard to strengthen the support of equality in the workforce, including the workforce. By means of a form of equally-remuneration which is being treated at the council. Of course, if it turns out that the effectiveness of this law of equality is not possible, we need to look to it in order to change it. It seems to me from the Commission's decision that this law works well. [[The president calls.]] It is referred back to the Commission to address the problems they have encountered. This, of course, is the responsibility to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u26	Madam President. It is my understanding of the role of the social and equal minister that he must protect the human rights of the people of the country. Human rights, as defined by Iceland's Human Rights Office, bring equality and respect to individuals. They make sure that all have basic needs, such as food and shelter. Where a person lives, where his parents are, the government in his country, no matter what human rights are involved, they are always the rights of all individuals. Human rights preserve the right to participate in society, the right to work, and the right to provide for themselves. I would have thought it would be in my mind that when a social and social equality minister goes on the crucial journey to introduce the user - controlled personal assistance, or NA, in Icelandic law it would be guided by the fact that rights are all, not just things. How can it be justified that only a proportion of those who are disabled have access to MPA? You can talk about cost, but is it really so that people's rights can be limited because they cost too much money? A basic convention of restoration will appear, with the permission of a president: ▪ Emphasis is placed on equal positions and equal rights for all individuals regardless of sex, religion, opinion, ethnic origin, race, color, sexual orientation, and otherwise. This refers not to equal rights of a limited number of individuals by capital, but to all individuals. According to the National Institute of Economics, there is a greater trend towards the community in MPA than the resulting cost, which is reported in the report, by permission of the President: The average advance rate of NAPA averages $2,612 million a year, but the cost is 3.5 million. The social benefits and costs related to the ministry are likely to be less than one million dollars per user. Thus, the study provides a clear indication that the progress of those who enjoy the ministry is greater than that of the community because of the ministry. If this is the case, why not just open up to this and allow all those in need of the ministry to receive it? What evidence is there that a person should put a quota on the NPA?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u27	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen of this very good inquiry. It is true that here we are talking about fundamental human rights, which hopefully leads us forward to the battle for the improved rights of the disabled for the future. I think it's a big step we're taking in MPA to the legislation and to legalize here the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disappointment of Infirm People. I think it was a huge deal on the road. I have emphasized that in this situation, we are really at an early stage, not in a finish line. We're still developing new options here. Research projects carried out with NPA have been carried out, and they give strong evidence of the great and powerful benefits that can result from these provisions and the benefits it can bring to those who are disabled. We, however, are also under obligation to take the responsibility of the money the government has made at any given time and to take into account the financial status of our fellow rural society. This is not NPA greeting, but its introduction in stages on the basis of that assessment, of the need for this service. If that need is greater, of course, it is our responsibility and responsibility to respond to it. But we felt that it was important to start on this journey in the way that it was set up so that it would remain within the framework of our budget, but that we would still be taking this vital step firmly. So it's not going to land on us. If the demand seems more than a team of experts scheduled at the time to evaluate the need for MPA, it is, of course, our duty to respond and we will live up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u28	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I would've thought opening NAPA for everyone was an investment. Encouraging in people is no doubt the best investment you can make. It is the foundation of a more balanced, successful society for all. It refers not only to the user - controlled personal assistance but also to the case of microorganism, the elderly, the children, families, and so on. In every part of my work with this government, I run into the ideologies that people who need help are financial problems in society, and that's how approach is. It's the highest. Ministers of their fellow citizens as a financial basis for society? Or does he see a ruined potential for marvelous vegetation? If there is a possibility for a minister, should we not invest in people's rights and thus provide a basis for people to thrive? Then I'm not just talking about some people, but all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u29	Madam President. I can see why. A senator shares my interest in this group of languages. I object that it is written somewhere in the policy of this government to treat these people as a financial basis for the public or not to interfere with their quest or progress in some way. On the contrary, we focus on investing in large - scale activities, building a job estimate, investing rather in various kinds of mental assistance, psychological support, and other factors to address the root of the problem, which is increasing disability in the country for various reasons. We can easily respond to it and do much better, invest in improved quality of life, and increase the effectiveness of these groups. That's where I think it's very important that you succeed. I reiterate that government policy is in very good harmony with the emphasis. A senator listed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u30	Madam President. One day I heard you start speeches with a joke, just to lighten the atmosphere and warm up the room. I decided not to, but to be somewhat traditional and only start at the beginning. I looked up a financial statement from the Ministry, and it says, by permission of the President: ▪ During the next few years, there will be a special focus on the structure of the infrastructure and the extension of the welfare system, including with large increases in health and education expenses. Then I realized it's a joke. It's a joke to say that this national financial program shows the growth of infrastructure, the demonstration of the advanced welfare system, the support of education system. This would be a joke if it wasn't as serious as it really is. I felt that a minister's proposal was that when I first got her in the hands, a body of Congress didn't smell so good, but as I read it more, it makes me feel worse. The Department's homepage also reminded me that as often as possible, it was the highest branch office. The secretary of this trip to a corneal show, where he put the key points in the letter style. At the time since that presentation, my attitude toward these slogans has changed slightly. For example, there are two aspects of education that give evidence here. Another is: Colleges get more money to improve quality. The other is: "The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is rising. " I didn't realize it until I read it again. It's like a cross exam. One of these things is true, the other is wrong. The same thing happened when I looked at a cornea bearing the heading "Industry and Security. " It states that there will be no increase in transport funds that my partners on the environment and transport committee will likely lead a body of Congress to all the truth that is not right. Then there are two things that touch the committee I sit in, and my review is about, above all, the Board of Education and Education. It says, "Education of law enforcement all over the country. " On the other hand, three new choppers for the D.A. There's one right and the other wrong. I'm going to dig a little deeper into these four things. Colleges get more money to improve quality. How do we recommend it? Yes, we can look to established scientific and technical policies that say we should aim for a average student spending to conform with what is in OECD countries, with the aim to aim for the average North countries three years later. At times, government officials want to express indiscriminately, for what we do with our money is more important than how much money we spend. It is a mantra that is used in most languages, that it is not the quantity of money that matters, but the quality of them; mantra, which is mainly suitable for cutting down, appears to be, tested in academic matters. But we can also evaluate the quality of study according to what those who say. So I'd like to take it down to the University of Iceland, which says, by permission of the President: If the financial program continues to be carried out, we are facing the University of Iceland that The school and thereby the Icelandic people could lose their strong position in an international college comparison; The offer of a study will be reduced and the necessary development of a teaching process will be delayed; You will be at risk of a sharp structure of built-in tests and innovations that clearly appeared during the collapse. This does not suggest that colleges get more money to improve quality. This indicates the opposite. Although the author of the proposal and its principal members were rather shy about getting external opinions - it was not until our determination in the lesser part of the proposal was made for discussion - it is something we should listen to. I understand that while people have not wanted to hear the university college stand for quality university education at the same time, for example, reports that those who study at university live in unsatisfactory circumstances, are in molded homes that have long since come to renovate and build new ones over their activities. It was in the ancient cornea: Colleges get more money to improve quality. The other thing, though true, is that the New World Translation will rise. This is not the first time that that promise has been made. That was the last government ever. Then, when the Independence Party came into power, along with the forwarding party, the Independence Party received a reason for continuing the project. All right. However, it is a vital task that leads me to me to me only the misleading presentation of the program. How Would You Answer? ... and we retraced every meeting on this matter in our budget of business and bigger investments. That means that between years of comparisons are almost hopeless, for us senators, let alone people in the community, dive into the numbers, and see what is behind them. Thus, in the case of the university, it becomes clear that in the next year, an increase in expenses to the university will increase by 70 million. From over 41 billion to over 41 billion. This is an increase that allows within the agglutination range of 0.2%. In 2019 there will be an increase of 2% and then, finally, in 2020, 3.9%, but we will hopefully be rid of this government, which is clearly going to run starving policy at all levels of public management. Education as well as others. The clumping of investments into the business box will be exaggerated as we examine the New World Translation. For some reason, the U.S. High School of Happiness is included in the tournament. Next year, 510 million! If someone had had had had information to cut the contribution of the State to the New World Translation for the next year, he might have guessed that contributions to the university were increasing by over half a billion. No, it's not. This is another of the books, another dishonest presentation that distorts the image and directly counteracts the transparency of this proposal, on the contrary to the baseline law on public finances that we should be working in accordance with here. Then we're inside and we're safe. There I mentioned two points, the growing police throughout the country and three new helicopters for the Country Guard. There will be no more law. It is in the same chemical field as the helicopters that eat up all the increase in the topic field, the next to every cent. It may only be hoped that the greater part has decided to set three goals to promote law enforcement in the program and that the increase in manpower would not be one of those goals. Because this growth will not occur, the necessary strength of the police, in turn that a law enforcement program is expected to run in 200 policemen will not occur during this period. On the contrary. We received reviews from two state - of - law officials, Southern and Northern countries, where each saw to it that the standard-oriented tool claim would call for a reduction in a total of 10 police officers in these two districts. I don't suppose the Ministry made any analysis of the impact on any other districts. There have been a number of analyses in this document, but I think we should rather expect law enforcement to become ill all over the country, on the contrary to what the minister of finance said at the point of the presentation. In fact, the factors that are true in this program do not necessarily improve everything. It's a good thing that the National Guard gets three new helicopters to own. But let us not forget that this same weekend service has one relatively recent aircraft, which is rented to the south of the year to protect border control so that the National Guard can maintain sea incomes from the plane. I think that the greater part would do well to read the Environmental Protection Agency's review of the Agency's budget, which, for the first time, shows that it does not have enough resources to keep out a rescue service at sea outside 25 miles of water except half a year; it has no means to have a ship on the sea except 300 days a year, so that two months of ships are confined to the dock; and thirdly, as I mentioned, it does not have an airplane of land service around the year because it cannot afford it. It's good to get new helicopters, but it would also be nice to meet the financial needs that the National Guard gives very well in his review. These are factors that were identified by the Committee's discussion, points that are familiar with all committee opinions. There is, in fact, a red thread in all committee opinions, whether smaller parts or more, whatever the above mentioned, that the results of financial programmes are unacceptable. We're on the same page with it, but for some reason governments see themselves compelled to recommend that the plan be accepted. More of the budget committee points to photograph, by permission of the president: ▪ The more part considers it a reason to reevaluate secondary education requirements, where efficiency due to shortness of study has not yet been fully established. I don't know if we need to take more part in some supportive course, some self-security or whatever. Because this is a suggestion, but don't create a change in the schedule at the same time as the highest. The secretary of finance says repeatedly, and repeated it last time here, that this frame should be taken very seriously - this frame to agree in May should be taken very seriously in the fall when we agree with the budget within it. To count a reason to revise the requirements and to say that these and the other sheep need to be kept in mind without actually offering suggestions for doing so at this point - have the members of the management board forgotten that we are the means to protect ourselves and that we are the ones who decide to vote here in May what this will be like? Or will they come in the fall, the ones that today encourage these and the others, and reprint the committee inscriptions where it ◯ to encourage, in the fall, will be at the bowels of the city's bowels, and ◯ This happened somehow, and there is no one who could do anything about it? Or will they remember the steps on every level and adapt the box to the need? I'll just mention one little thing. Although a financial agenda should be about the big lines, it is quite small, yet it still finds its final suggestions for the majority of the budget. It is a personal protection, an institution capable of about 100 million on budget. A greater proportion of the General and Education Committee points out that in the current financial programme, there is an increase in funding for the Agency, in fact, the failure of the budget approved in the meantime. A financial committee says: The cost of new European protection directives needed in advance in May 2018. It's a year from now. Personal protection estimates that it takes about 100 million to respond to this European principle. The budget range at the Persian protection level is 75 million per year. It is clear that if we agree with this strategy, this small point, this little comment, which must be made in time on a budget, stand as a dead letter against the fact that in the autumn, will respond in this field, where there are also financing politicians, foreign languages that are maligned to hundreds of millions of people in the programme, with an expense of 100 million where the space is 75 million and the need for hundreds of millions. Madam President. Here's the budget. Why doesn't more part want to use it? Why don't some adjustments come from a greater part that has been shown many times to defeat this schedule? [[The president calls.]] She needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his review of the matter he has brought here. But I'd like to ask the senator about changing proposals that the left movement ▪ green offers here, where he criticizes other threads of financial development, which we in the management section have also criticized. In fact, we tried to correct it and correct it by making changes. But when I read this adjustment proposal, I feel very disappointed, for its transparency is extremely low. This is simply added a new team, a proposal to add new ones, new taxes of 53.4 billion 2018, etc., as used in the accompanying text. And then they simply add new ones to their expenses. I'm no closer to what taxes and what expenses this is. I want to pray. A senator to give us some clues as to which taxes to raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u32	President. I appreciate the questions. Yeah, about the layout. It is true that we agree that as planned it, it was disturbing. But I think it's rather hollow to hear a senator talk about not wanting to make decisions without the fact that there's no evidence. If we look at the fact that we didn't get a break-in of business and investment until May 6th, the day after the major segments of the General and Education Committee returned to their opinion. The day after the majority of the welfare committee returned to their opinion. Both of these major objects felt acceptable to be totally blind to the content of the subject matter matter that we were discussing. And, yes, I'll admit that the design of the left green could be better, like the presentation of everything in this program because there's never been a thought yet. This is where we study while we're doing it. There is no situation, no expertise within the council to react. We senators are guessing how to put things ahead. We're pulling out of the Ministry and Congress, information, anything you need to establish a financial strategy. I am ashamed to participate in this process, and I hope that it will. A senator does the same. I hope to the highest. A minister who sits here sees to himself, makes sure that next year we are not in this situation, discussing a suggestion that was made in vain to the council, and is promoted with great inadequacy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u33	Mr. President. There was a long answer, and I was no closer to what I asked. Well, maybe. The senator didn't give me any indication of this in each tax increase of 334,000 million? Here's a bill for a million dollars for every person in the country, and there's no idea what taxes it is. I demand that the senator come and give me some indication of it, despite all the obstacles and indiscretions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u34	President. A greater proportion of the legal committees make it clear that they need more expenses. The problem with the greater part is that it is trapped in some restrictions that it should not be paid to raise these expenses so that it does not provide any suggestions. However, to run a community, we learned in the left that spending should reflect the need and income to be sufficient for them. All they have to do is make fair money, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u35	How?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u36	That has long appeared in our many speeches, Haraldur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u37	A respectable president. I've only been involved in a global and educational committee where a financial programme was being completed. Neither in financial planning nor in the meetings I was able to be at the General and Education Committee there was a great deal of talk about the Scientific and Technical Council or the funding to be applied to the plans of those who are not yet ready. But we do know that a prior strategy was not met according to the existing agreement, and it seems that the next plan, at any rate, relative to the figures we find in financial programmes, will not be funded either. It's a question of what happens to the negotiations and plans of the Scientific and Technical Council, if this is not expected in a financial programme. On the other hand, when we consider the college budget, we should consider that apart from the stock costs and the outside of the box, there is an increase of 8.8% during this period. Based on the criteria we have in a financial programme, there are over 9% of pay increases at the same time. That's what's expected. They need to be corrected for the failings of government employees when the pension rights were reduced in December. The contributions to the Scientific and Technical Council are needed into these 8.8%. Where will they come from? I don't understand. Are there any projects ahead of us? Is there something going away that has not been clearly established in a financial program that could explain this? I haven't been able to attend all the meetings of the General and Education Committee where it may have been presented. I don't know. I haven't seen it in the reviews. I'll scratch my head a little bit and just ask myself, " Where does this money come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u38	A respectable president. I'm afraid I can't answer much. This information is not available. There was no evidence to show how university levels should be developed, at the same time as we do not keep donations to that end. There was no mention of this on the committee. And as far as I understand why the U.S. Government is so ill with education, as this program indicates, starvingism will be all around in the coming years. It is evident at all levels of school. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that this government always seems very free from the ideas of its predecessor. The Scientific and Technical Council of the Last Government adopted some strategy. Is it to be fulfilled by this government? As is true of this government, it will bring about a resolution adopted by this council during the last term to build a house over a Museum of Nature. As is true of today's education minister, the last word of the same category will be to build a house of culture in the Egls, where he said the golden sentence in an interview at the eastern window the other day: I did not sign that declaration of will. What? You see, it is very easy to accept responsibility to advance the university if you are not going to fulfill any promises. You can naturally aim for narrowing access to colleges, achieving an average student's production by reducing the number of students. Of course you're asking yourself if it's the plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u39	A respectable president. It's interesting. A senator should enter a number of students. Now we know the colleges are shrinking. That means there's a hundred more students coming into college. Yet, the donations are only 8.8% ahead of the basic cost and the same. I'd like to think about the possibility that there's a particular change of direction presented in numbers rather than in lyrics. I can't read it differently when I look at the numbers and what they mean inevitably, without explaining that this is a cut-off for the current government to put on in the spring months with the Scientific and Technical Council. Because of the number of students who are now entering college, because of the pay grade provided in a financial program, this means an 8.8% increase in surgery. That's a change in policy that's not explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u40	A respectable president. I think the Senator hit his head when he asks if there's a change of direction in numbers instead of lines. I think there are plenty of examples in this text. The Senator mentioned high school. When was the subject of a 4-fold standard for high school in the country to be discussed? When did they talk about it? The financial agendas were all over the place, all of a sudden. The last schedule was 0.5%, now it is suddenly running up to 2%. In addition, the trend in high school budgets is so that, on the contrary, the promise that the shortcut would return to high school in their growth is taken out of the system. If we put it all together, we're losing about 3 billion high school points at the end of the period compared with what we're doing today. There are 10% of the donations for high school that are being weakened by that stage. [[The president calls.]] It's a change of course and it's not presented in text.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about what. A senator for the presentation, target design, and transparency of the financial program we are discussing here. I'll see it in the review for what it's about. A senator seems to agree that we agree on the lack of transparency and poor coordination between recruitment practices in this financial program and particularly that the Ministry of Justice chose not to mention in general the costs outside the estimated cost of reinvestment of blind-flying equipment, so I testify in the review. Senator. I agree with him on the lack of agreements with the institutions covered by financial programmes, but in the issue of review. A candidate also noted that the district manager's comments in the capital area clearly establishes criticism that agencies have had little consultation, whether they are about to set budgetary needs or to define goals and measures. I'd like to go below. A senator's concern has been taken care of by me. It is that this lack of criticism, this poor production of data and standards will result in the failure of institutions under each topic field to take their place against each other. The review of the foregoing points shows that this lack of fragmentation in the topic areas seems to prompt some institutions to take sides against other institutions within the same topic area to ensure their position in the uncertain financial climate. Thus, under the direction of Iceland's police directors' union, it is stated that the development of national law enforcement is not to be taken into account while the businessman in the capital area is concerned that the increase in financial needs due to the increase in the increase in trustors will be taken care of by the government. Takes it. A senator's subject to the fact that there must be a concern if a lack of transparency causes as much chaos within the administrations as it really is, i.e. the take-off I'm doing here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u42	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm worried about a lot of things in this program, including the points the Senator makes. The feeling of not throwing bread holes in institutions and biting on them - I share it. I think institutions are having a very difficult time in this new system because there is no consultation between the Ministry and the institutions in this introduction. It is about to introduce a completely different approach to public finances, and it is not too small to include the institutions in the process. They're somehow out of the way and have to look in and guess where the numbers from the plan are coming from. This is also shown by the fact that we almost had to torture more parts in order to send out the plan for discussion. It is natural to conclude that the Council should agree with a government spending programme for the next five years without properly considering how it deals with the largest and most important institutions in the country. The senator also mentioned a goal, how mistaken it was, and how difficult it was to explain. I may mention one of the details that the Ministry of Justice has overlooked, which is that a newly formed middle court needs somewhere. He is allowed to live in a rented house in Kopavogi, under a provisional judicial statute until 2022. According to these laws, it is quite clear that during the financial program, the court will need to be built. There's no record of that coin in this program. How many billion people are missing there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u43	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a good question. A senator proposes. One might ask, " What might be the answer? ' There are things that are missing in the courts. 'In the climate there, a simple sentence can be found that there is no room for financial planning to carry out the work that needs to be done to promote better courts here in Iceland. I'd like to discuss some cultural issues and art found in this program. It's a review of why. A senator shows up, and it's absolutely true, that the Ministry of Education does not really offer any numbers. I'd like to go below. However, a member of the Council of Education, which is increasing the number of members in the youth - oriented activities of KFUM and KFUK over a number of years and actually also in Boy Scouts, although it is not obvious that no other societies are thus favored by the Ministry of Education. I'm sorry. A senator would agree with his political order and good administrative arrangements to make it his goal to increase the number of participants in one kind of youth service rather than all others in this financial program? [[The president calls.]] Is that some kind of standard?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u44	A respectable president. It is as if most of the criteria in this program were drawn out of a hat. They are either very small and ambitious or somehow vague and difficult to understand. There's obviously a whole lot of progress on how the Ministry is getting closer to this. This is rarely in relation to the policy level in the relevant issues. I don't even know how much powder we're supposed to spend in discussing those criteria. They're almost all nonsense. Whether increasing the number of youths in a certain organisation or in a law enforcement standard is not up to any law enforcement plan. There is no consistentity, however, to this schedule, with other programmes. [[The president calls.]] This plan is still just a plan to think of something that might soon begin to break free. I don't think it's ethic.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u45	The first step to review the 15 - second goal of speaking is pause. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u46	Mr. President. We'll continue 2nd. for the government's financial programme, for 2018,2022. I'm going to make use of my speaking lesson now, in general, to discuss the budget and the information it receives from committees as well as from a number of smaller legal committees, as well as the various comments on the subject. Council members of various committees of the council. I'll start off with this general, but I'll be especially concerned about what I'm saying and what I'm saying. paritaprevir Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, but we have a seat. A foreign press committee and passed a review there. There will be no escape from talking about the financial plan in general, how it was put in motion, and how it was handled. It's not a good idea for the presentation and setting of the budget as it came from the highest level. Secretary of finance, but I like that it is quite consistent with any of the members of the council, wherever they stand, that the dates of the council and therefore the members of the council were far too short. The financial cover has been small or nothing, and it is difficult to read out, to revise the process, and to strengthen the council so that they can maintain their role in the project. It's been very clear that the council is completely up to the project for information, indiscriminates, and we have to take the evidence that we're right if we call them. The Congress itself has very little opportunity to go to some deeper job itself, and we senators are really just being helped if we're going to get help from the committee's enthusiasm. It seems to me that we all agree that this has been a disaster. Therefore, I have high hopes that this will be improved and that this will be taken into account, that the Council will make it real to improve this process, both in order to increase the time to give careful and detailed coverage of the financial plan and to make the products that come out of it better. Of course, it is also necessary that if it is carried out and carried out at the highest level. A minister will return a better product of his next time, and the numbers will be better put out, for example. The cost of construction has been set apart from the one involved in monotonous operations. They'll be able to separate them so that they're windy. Congress officials do not have to waste their time calling out specific details about this. On the other hand, when I saw at the branch office more part of the legal committee, I thought that financial plans indicate that new more things haven't had enough time to prepare and implement a financial plan for the next year and that it would be a bad idea for the council's work to be replaced by a new government in January. I'm sure there's a grain of truth in it. Indeed, it is unusual in Icelandic politics for a new government to take over at that time. However, I ask: Could it not be that the committee's review of a majority of the legal committees, where there are some criticisms but there are no indications of a change in the plan, is not merely a matter of time to prepare and implement a financial plan for the next few years, but that it simply did not require the debate within the council that constitutes the greater part of the Council and places in the government? There was a lack of the fact that this was the deep political conversation that is needed to achieve a solidarity to contribute such an important piece of paper? I can't help but think about it when I read this committee opinion. As I said before, members of the Synod Committees were too short to give their opinion of the issues of financial programs that hear under the scope of each constant committee's work. I have to say, though, that my friends and I are in trouble. However, a foreign - language committee had more relief than others did. Parliaments who serve on other council committees of the council, where there are, of course, fewer language areas under the foreign committee. So the project was more manageable for us, even though we have had to call for information from the State Department. It turned out that there was a much further breakdown in the figures in the Ministry than in the financial program. I think that's something very thought - provoking to me. If there is more information, even though this is a plan, why don't members of the council just be given access to it right away? Why do we need to call for them in particular? Looking at the financial program carefully, I disagree with its political objective, but the main cause of anxiety is that this is an even clearer point for many of us when we discussed economic policy earlier in the winter. There are plans that, at the time of the financial programme, the development of co-medication will be made as a proportion of GDP falling. I think it's a very worried matter. I think this is particularly bad news, especially for underpayers who are particularly benefiting from the high levels of mutual consumption, that it is strong, that the infrastructure, to form the welfare system and education system, is financed through a common fund. Much has been said about the importance of paying off debts. The emphasis has been placed on the highest priority. Government. I agree that it is important to pay off debt. However, maintenance and structure must not be neglected at the same time. If the infrastructure is neglected, the cost to the generation following us is actually being shifted. I think it's in the financial program that that's exactly what's about to happen. That is why I agree with those who have mentioned this point, that there is a question of the future and that it is evident in generations that will have to face very difficult challenges, including. Because of the change in population age, and especially because of climate change. It's clear to me that there's going to be a lot of social changes in the years to come. It has to do with the contractions of the concordance again to my mind. My main concern is the lack of education in this country. Therefore, the commitment that the educational system is made to fulfill is considered completely wrong political priorities. What a future society needs, a society that needs to deal with climate change, a society that needs to bring all kinds of new solutions to things, is well educated individuals. This is one of the things that is so great in education, can help you deal with new and unexpected situations and to invent new ways, simply new technology to cope with it. That's why I feel that vision coming to my attention at the highest point. A government in which education is not a priority that is extremely bad. I'm worried about her. I just think it's dangerous. Mr. President. Since I have made quite a few use of my speaking class in general, I intend to turn my attention to what is in the foreign field. It is on the committee I have, so I was assigned to discuss it specifically. I'd like to start by mentioning Baltrexit, including Because we had a few days ago a conversation in this hall at the highest. Secretary of state, who has put much emphasis on, natural and fortunately, that Iceland needs to prepare well and achieve good contracts with the British when it comes to their passage from the European Union. I'm a little worried that the plan doesn't have a special earmark in it. It was found at a meeting on the Foreign Affairs Committee not to increase one position in London's foreign service due to Baltrexit, but to find money and sides within the framework. What I'm worried about is that we don't know exactly where to take the money from. There must be something else to be sitting on. We've also had quite a few discussions in this conference about developing European legislation on the interest management of Iceland and past phases. They also need employees and funding. Should these two mailors bite on the money? This is directly linked to verbal exchange. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Thorfjörður Sunna Ævarsdóttir here that agencies in the media will have to take up money. That's what I'd like to see more clearly. I also need to mention the military issues that usually go under the title of security and defense. It is our assessment in the secondary part of the State Department that there are no exports and there are no complete explanations of how to protect the budget. Although Iceland's contributions to NATO have been increased in recent years during the forwarding period of the advance party and of an independent party, it is not possible to see exactly how much money Iceland itself is going to contribute to this category, nor is there any amount of money to go to institutions such as the Landland Guard. However, it is clear that there should be an increase in the number of inns within the safety area from 200 as they were in 2016 to 300 in 2022. However, there is no evidence of a planned cost. I think it's very strange. This is one of the factors I would have thought would be relatively easy to add. I think it is particularly shocking that there is no further degradation at costs, since it is known from all over the world that security and defenses are one of the most important causes of public management, which is being built on a course where light - headed sums flow from the public's pockets to the manufacturers of equipment or contractors that partners hook in shelter that it is always said that due to the nature of the category, the content of contracts must be kept secret. There's limited invitations and so on. Thus, in many parts of the world, military spending is being held high by enormous economic interests. I'm concerned that the non-warning nation of Iceland, although still a member of NATO, is going to be involved in this use, putting capitals in it, but not to focus on other upbuilding things that I think would be much more likely to increase the security of a nation. Then I will discuss the evolution issues that are just what I think we should emphasize. But I see that for my time I have to ask to be reassigned to the rosary to discuss them in particular, and especially that Iceland, which is among the richest countries of the world, is not going to raise its contributions to development unless about 0.01% of the duration of the programme. [[The president calls.]] Later today or later in this discussion, I will discuss it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u47	Another senator to cover the 15 - second mark of a talk period is quick. 6th. Reykjavík Precinct North, Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u48	There's a small margin of error.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u49	President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good review and a good speech. Hv. A senator refers to climate change, which is likely the most important issue of our time and the future and is amazed that it is not being handled better in a financial program. Like what? A senator rightly mentions the priority of education, that there are well - educated people in society. I asked you a question to the highest. The social and equal minister of the unsubstantiated question period earlier asked him about the emphasis and the opportunity to invest in human resources, in the people of the country, or whether people who would need help were just a financial basis for society. I think it's a little mixed up with this. While there are people in Iceland who are in want, there are people who just don't have the ability to look forward to it. That's extremely important, especially since Iceland is among the richest countries in the world. If we cannot keep our people in good care so that no one has financial distress and lacks the opportunity to seek out of course rights, we cannot expect people to have the ability to look to the future. That's extremely important. The world is changing. To cope with these changes, we must work together. We need these men, these people, and we need them on our side. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how she feels about that man.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hellodru Mogensen for a grim question that is about me counting in the basis of the equation within our society, but also the equation on a global scale where we are actually dealing with the same problem, i.e. To the abundance of the multitude there is want. It's actually the same movie here in Iceland and anywhere else in the world, although we're here on a much smaller scale when it comes to Iceland and Icelandic society when we watch the whole world. Of course, as a small community, where all channels are very short, we should easily be able to design the system and activate everyone's human resources. Then it doesn't matter if we talk about people who are moving out here from abroad, people who have limited their ability to work for some reason, disabled people: It's entirely possible in our community to put their arms around them. But it is really the same prince if we consider it on a global scale. In fact, it has been written in a theoretical sense that communities that highlight the equation among their citizens are likely to contribute to the greatest amount of money in developing cooperation. They understand that the emphasis on equation is universal, both at home and on a global scale. I think it's very important that we put it all in perspective, and it'll be so especially urgent now. Hv. A senator began his inquiry by linking with climate change: They do this again even more important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u51	President. I appreciate those answers. Now we're in Iceland in such an interesting position because we're so small a country and we're rich, rich in resources. We have the opportunity to rethink our community, our systems up again, experiment, experiment, test and test new things. In that way, we could actually be a guide. We could try new things, and if they work well, others in other parts of the world could adopt these ideas, they could benefit everyone. I just think this financial plan is so much like the way it approaches these problems, as shown in a financial program, by permission of presidents: ▪ During the first few months of the year, weaknesses in the government's finances have been identified that will not be met with an expansion. As a result, increasing numbers of microbes have been observed, the number of trustees has increased, and the costs of health insurance are also considerably higher than expected, especially due to drug costs. These factors, which account for a total of 8.3 billion dollars, have been included in the budget now and create a permanent expansion. To be talking about a permanent problem, I feel that there is an overwhelming lack of imagination and ability to test new things. I think it's very serious if we're going to step forward and expect some change to be important to the people in the country. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if she sees an opportunity to do something new, to try new things, and not to be afraid of doing them. If it doesn't work out, we'll try something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u52	Mr. President. I think there's a perfectly accurate description in there. A senator says this government budget is a little bit of an idea-free. The main idea is to combine. Of course, it means that there will be all kinds of work to be done, all kinds of things that society still needs, but it will have to finance them somehow differently than through the combination. Then again it comes to having little idea: It is a short time to go into private employment or to sell state property, thus making temporary profits. One of the points mentioned in the Committee's list from the 1st small part of the history of the year. The financial programme is referred to as the private access of the Keflavík Airport. I truly agree that this financial program is a failure of thought and seems to be a baloney who needs to rely on the welfare system. Their own personal problem is to try to examine it in a large social context what it is about an Icelandic community that makes it a cause for so many to fall off a work market. There I think we need to think things differently because it's not enough to just change these people, it's the system itself, something in the labour market that needs to be changed, something in the community that needs to be changed. There we need to think things over again, for it would benefit the individual and the community everywhere. That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna get something up the road. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I look forward to hearing a second talk. A senator who is planning to review the development team. She was exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. The United Nations has agreed that contributions to development will be 0.7% of the gross national income. Prior to 2017, we Icelanders, one of the world's richest nations, have proposed 0.25% of the gross national income. This financial strategy allows for the development of 0.26% of the stakement of national income throughout the five-year schedule. There's no ambition there. There's not going the right way. However, when the left greens and the Conspiracy were together in government, a agreed plan was adopted that expected us to reach the UN in 2019 C.E. It rhymes with that as a matter of course. A senator pointed out earlier, that the countries that stress the equation realize that not only are there but they need to be more numerous and understand these matters. The organization has made adjustments in this financial program, heading only in the right direction, although it would have had to be done better, in 2018 it is assumed that 0.29% of the nation's resources will be spent on development cooperation and will have increased to 0.33% in 2022. That means 782 billion in 2018. K. The total increase is 2 billion, by 2022. I want to ask you why. A senator feels that she feels that way and would like to be supportive of her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u54	Mr. President. I have to admit that this adjustment proposal from the United States had overlooked me in all the data available in this discussion. So I haven't studied it, but I'll do it after this. I agree with the idea, and I agree that it is quite ambitious not to put more on developing cooperation, although all classes agree with the goal of heading toward these 0.7%. Like what? That is exactly what one member of the United States suggested how to achieve these goals in steps. I've made it a rule not to give out completely clearly whether I'm involved in supporting or not supporting something that I haven't seen any koncret what it looks like. But I agree completely with this idea because I feel so ashamed that there is no greater ambition in these matters. I have to go in and look at this proposal. And even if it's not my place to ask questions. A senator who opposes me to ask questions would be interesting to hear - because we realize that this will cost money - how the Conspiracy sees that we can earn money, or where to take money to implement this idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u55	Mr. President. Now I have to pray. A senator is accepting and reading 3rd less of the legal committee. There are both suggestions for raising expenses to address important issues that the government ignores, but the public has called for. It also explains how to earn money. Hv. A senator speaks of the government's ambition in planning and a vision to the next five years for an Icelandic community, and I want to agree with it. The government does what right governments do, lower taxes, and suggest selling valuables, as the committee's list of items is opened. Of course, it is taken seriously when more of the budget committees, oddly elected, and members of the government council, contributes, opening our only port and into the country. But there it is. In the conversation yesterday, Senator Björt's future spoke of this as being so under discussion. However, the discussion is not taken into consideration about the development of the health system and the effects of personalisation there and whether to continue on that course or whether we need to go back because this is a problem for society. For example, there is no reference to evolution in the high school system, whether or not we should step back with a personalisation plan there, as well as what it will mean for the level of education and the availability of education in the country. This discussion is not opened in these large issues. I want to ask you why. Senator anyway. The Foreign Affairs Commission is considering plans for development cooperation and the focus of Iceland there and has plans and plans in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u56	V.E.G. President. I have to agree that the discussion is a little strange, I think, when it comes to the tasks that everyone seemed to agree on before elections to have to do, i.e. to strengthen the infrastructure, and when it comes to doing so. Or do not, as this financial program assumes, and as the committee's opinion from the greater part of all committees seems to me, also assumes. The discussion is extremely intense on the surface. Something is mentioned, an idea is presented: This could be done without a complete knowledge of whether it is just something to be thrown into the discussion. Is this so that we are not talking about the main point, which is that funding is lacking in order to run society in a reasonable and sustainable way for the long future? This is what I'm worried about. As for the development issues and the State Department, I know that the Foreign Affairs Committee has received a presentation on a development team with members of the Parliament from all classes at the General Assembly. I'm sorry, but I didn't get to the particular meeting where these matters have been discussed. At least it's been very clear to us in the smaller part of our bed. The Foreign Affairs Committee, that we want to take on the development team and the contributions made to it. [[The president calls.]] Other members of the council have also spoken but not taken place in these suggestions here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-24-70.u57	The plan is that more votes will be held at a new meeting just after.
