ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u1	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Environment and Resources, Justice Ministers, Health Ministers and Transport and District Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u2	A respectable president. Lately, the possible sale of the State at the Keflavík International Airport has been discussed. Pronounced e.g. From government agents, and this morning the press was the last one to discuss the subject. In an interview with the director of Istavia in the News magazine, there is also an interview with the president of Isa. magazines, with President's permission, that investors are already taking an interest. So I want to ask the highest. Economic and economic secretary, who is the head of state property: Has he felt such interest? Have foreign or domestic investors been contacted for interest in buying a Cheflavík terminal? How has this interaction been with the investors? And finally, who is above the highest position? Minister for privateization of the Keflavík Air Force Bases in its entire state or objects?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u3	Madam President. First, then, it is to say that no one has contacted the Ministry of Economics with a request to buy the airport or parts related to it. Second, my general view of such matters is asked. Because this has been in the talk at the highest level. Secretary of transportation and, actually, the Committee, most of it. I've tried to study the matter, how property has been treated at international airports. I can't say that I have an expert on it, but it seems to me that it is often the case that more than one person owns it, and that the state usually owns a big thing, e.g. 30, 40%, or the communities. Other persons may, e.g. I've been funded, pension funded, and some of these assets. I have not developed a stand for this matter. However, I have listened with interest to the fact that people have mentioned the potential value of the Istavia society, which may be in the range of 100 to 200 billion, which is obviously a very wide range showing that such speculations are not far away. I've made it clear that it's good for the government to know about this reserve if at any time it came in order for people to consider this, but it has not been examined at this point by the Ministry of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. The government's recent profits have been made at the Chefavik airport, not inconsequential, as did land induction or other government property. The vast majority of those who come to the country are going through Keflavík. We are an island, and in many respects we are not comparable to other countries where people flood borders in other ways. As it is now, this is close to being a perfect monopoly. Then I ask Telvur. The minister of such a monopoly is suitable for personal battles? Further: Is there a disagreement on the matter, or is there a political agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I'd like to answer the first thing he asked about last time. This case has just not been discussed in the government. The first time I heard of these ideas, there was an interview at the highest level. A minister of transportation when we were both on our birthday at Leifs Station, he mentioned that he liked these ideas, and a greater proportion of the legal committees came to his attention. I think it's a good thing that the World of Congress and all Icelanders know what it's worth, even to think about it. the view as easy as it would be. A senator says that this is really our main international airport, let's say, and the others are very small. Of course, it needs to be evaluated when considering sale. But I've learned not to rule out anything, but it's not my program now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u6	Madam President. Since the Minister has seen a reason to propose a 15 court order in the National Court, the largest single order of a judge in Iceland's history, a new level of judgment to be fundamental in justice in Iceland, to deviate from the judgment of a judicial committee on this, it is inevitable, as stated in the Court of Justice 412/2010, that her decision is based on a study in which m.a. taking into account the recommendations of the Minister in the regulations for this judicial committee on the issues relevant to applicants and ensuring that there is expertise in it to a similar degree as in the management of the judicial committee. Exactly those words are expressed in that judgment when the time is at hand. The Minister of Justice Árni M. Mathiesen was convicted of breaking the law by compromising the jury without having reasonedly gone to a study on the given grounds. M. Mathiesen, former minister, was sentenced to pay damages in that case. But the big damage to them and the great damage to this process, where four judges and four others are taken in - if not in a rational way that fulfills the condemnation of judgment - is the major harm that is being undermined by the justice system of the country. This is shown in the management and monitoring committee of the case. I ask the minister of Justice: Have the Minister of Justice in his profession made a recommendation made by the Secretary of Justice for the Order of 15 judges of the National Court, followed court judgment at Court 412/2010, against the former Minister of Justice, the Árni M. Mathiesenur?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u7	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows well because he is in trouble. This is a case, my proposal to the council, until further discussion. This Supreme Court, referred to by the senator, has also been brought up. I've tried to describe it to the committee, and I can do it again, in what sense I believe that judgment does not conform to the facts before the council. The Supreme Court case acknowledged that an order to a local judge's office in 2007 was completely different from that of today. Another is wrong. A senator, the minister there discussing, was sentenced, not to pay damages, but to failures. I note that in that case, there were also special rules that specifically covered the basis of misdeeds, but that may be the exception of this discussion. It is right to keep it in its place, for this was wrong. Some time later, in 2010, the rules about the order of a judge in the country were changed. According to the council's requirement, the council who wished to shoulder responsibility and to have access to the order of the judge was given an intervention. This responsibility was given by the Council and, of course, has to be shouldered by the U.S. Council. I have my profession as Minister of Justice, on this matter and in my other jobs, as all other governments have all the views of administrative rights in mind with all the decisions and treatments that come to my attention. I've done so in this case, I've presented evidence to support you. The administrative and monitoring committee of these matters, general support and even special, as well as that in this special law not stipulated by the order of the court.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u8	Madam President. The management laws came to the committee and stated that from this court case and the opinion of the Deputy General of the Year from that time, if a minister is to be removed, even if the law has been changed, an assessment committee has been established by the Minister to determine how to select the most qualified candidate, and to choose some others, the minister will be to follow the same rules and prove it. Is that evidence real? Because the support that has come to the committee does not meet these criteria. Were such qualified experts and must also be included in this evaluation? Were they? We haven't been told yet. The committee has called after we receive this information from the Minister. Will he give them? Whether he meets these requirements of judgment, whether or not the minister feels that this is appropriate? [[The president calls.]] The experts say they are relevant. We're here to make an informed decision. Will a minister inform us about this? Do it in writing? Because otherwise, experts say that it undermines the new legal rights being in charge and security of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u9	A respectable president. That may well be the problem. A senator doesn't like the argument. [[Up front.]] This does not change the fact that it is a minister who has the authority and is responsible for it, both political and administrative responsibility. The secretary proposes a proposal for the council. The Senate has two possibilities, to accept a minister's proposal, or not to agree to a minister's proposal. There are specific laws, special regulations, applicable to the order of judges in the land. In a very special way, the case is referred to the Generals. At the same time, it is strongly stated that a minister has the means to step aside from the judicial committee. Of course, a minister's proposal is presented in a legal way to counter the matter and its evidence and to protect protests made before the judicial hearing and so forth. That may be the problem. A senator is not pleased with the conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u10	The experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u11	He will have to deal with him, but the minister is responsible. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u12	A respectable president. Dissension and lack of policy are not up to one team at the highest level. Government. It has been noted earlier that whoever takes possession of the Leifs Station, the stock, has not examined or discussed in the government ideas proposed by a greater proportion of legal committees. No one has missed it at the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister speaks out and around the Icelandic crown. Of course, it is good to have opinions on a large scale, but I think that the arrangements for the currency of the country are not personal matters. A financial minister has taken on the task of bringing down the currency and cutting down the same knees as the former prime minister in the past, 2009◯2013, when the European mission was at its height. A financial minister, however, has at least one ally, but out of consideration for its victims, this scandal will not be torn up here. It must then be noted that the current level is at the highest level. The secretary of finance wants to enter the European Union, as can be seen from its homepage party, which says that membership in the EU follows many benefits as a sponsor for Iceland's situation and an increase in prosperity. On the other hand, the prime minister has sent out the message that the dollar is the country's future currency and that in this way no doubt he has more supporters than financial ministers. Madam President. The crown has grown a lot during the recent years. This can be done in a number of ways. More and more, however, it is seen that the government does not know what to do to stop that encouragement. ▪ Don't do anything in this town is a slogan used by a company. However, inactivity can lead to a conclusion. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he has come to the conclusion that it is best to let the crown sail its sea so that it will not be saved without a currency plan or possibly a part of ERM II.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u13	Madam President. Hv. A senator changes things, including this slogan he quotes from. The password is quite the opposite of what he said. ▪ Don't do anything, it's the slogan, and that's exactly the government's slogan, it's doing things. We are considering ways to secure more stability, and we have set up a commission for the nation's future financial policies, including the people. is for the consideration of currency advice. A word of caution, of course, is based on an Icelandic dollar, which is linked to a foreign currency. On the other hand, I have safely declared it, and I still feel that it would have been good for the Icelandic export company, for the tourism service, for the technical services, for the programming companies, for the seabed companies, if we had a system where the euro gangs would have remained at 130 bucks. as it was at the beginning of the campaign in the fall. I think it would have been good to believe that we'd been committed to securing the success of the crown, securing stability in the country, ensuring that our work remains, not just jobs in general, but the most valuable jobs that are now being left the country, since Icelandic technicians have become so much more expensive than technicians in foreign lands. This is not because of recent increases in their wages but because the dollar is getting stronger and when we watch the prices in dollars, people look more and more abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u14	A respectable president. The secretary of finance has to come up here and answer whether the government is implementing his policies and interests and his party or the policy that has to deal with it as the highest level. The prime minister has said that the dollar is the country's future currency. It doesn't work to come up here and get ready for this. The Embarrassing Council and ERM II have been discussed at the Navy Bank, and then it has been reported, so I now witness to the State Bank report by permission of the President: In part, the ERM II programme is the idea that it serves the role of a ◯ training camp, where new member member of the Member State (s) - i.e. States that are en route into the European Union - ▪ building knowledge and institutions in order to run money policy based on a stable success of their own currency towards Euro and that economic policy without independent money policy. That's what the Secret Bank says. That's what I'm talking about. Secretary of finance is always talking about? And how much did he have to do with it? Is that government policy? He must answer clearly whether the course of prime minister or financial interests is being carried out, which is always coming up and saying that it might be best. But there is no support in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u15	Madam President. Of course, I realize that currency advice that, like cot. A senator points out, as one of the advantages presented at 600◯700 pp. A report delivered by the latening bank in 2012 At that time, the government, or those in charge at that time, did not make much of the report. I figure some people read it, but the results weren't discussed. I'm on the level that one explanation may have been that, for example. A currency scheme has been a lost option because we did not have the currency reserve that is needed to secure the crown's ever going when tied to another currency. But now we have a huge deposit, we've lost Iceland's debt abroad, and that's why it's a realistic option now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u16	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, there's no need to talk about hobbies, though there's another view of what's best for our country. I'd like to have a word with the Minister about the exact matter where we agree more, the complexity of the Icelandic currency. The crown's strength is weakening our competitive stand. The low- and medium-sized export companies, which rely on knowledge, creation and intelligence, are getting into trouble. A great many of these enterprises will create a wide variety and good work that is in harmony with what the future demands and can bring about the rest of the country. These companies don't know borders. All over the world, they are sought after. If we don't build them a good environment, they'll just disappear, and we'll be left behind with the old routine. I know we're at the highest. The secretary of finance agrees that there is not enough money for these companies. Extremity poses a great threat to foreign investors. At the top of the stock market, these companies produce too much interest. Today, pay costs are very high if such a currency is recommended, as we know of. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not have to look at his field of money and look at all the advantages, not just the currency advice because it is dangerous. It is not guaranteed in the same way as ERM II, another course. A senator mentioned earlier. But I would like to ask: Instead of attacking a decrease in the value of a tax level and losing 13.5 billion from a government fund, wouldn't it have been better to lower the insurance fee and meet this small and medium-sized knowledge company that is based on intelligence and become the companies on which our future needs to build if we are not going to be in this humorous and down with our currency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u17	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is obvious that there are many things we do together in this regard. We both have the best interests of export companies at heart. I think it's right to say that I was at a conference this morning that presented the result of Iceland's competitiveness and how it's changed over a year. The good news is that competitiveness has only improved, we go from 23rd to 20, and in various places we have a higher grade than before we have a lower grade. Because we're losing weight, it's because we're getting a lot of strength from the Icelandic crown. It's obvious to everyone, and it's obvious in here. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson spoke earlier that he was opposed to the solidity of the crown has been the policy of Icelandic governments, e.g. Government policy for the Allied Party and Independence Party in the years after 1991 and in front of the first government of the Frontier Party and Independence Party. For asking why. Einarsson I think that we should definitely look at the insurance bill, too. I can share it with him. In fact, in the government's declaration of policy, a reduction in insurance costs is to be considered as well as with the rest of the Treaty, which makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u18	Madam President. Actually, I'm not talking for tax declines at school, I don't think it's incomprehensible. But if you're gonna do that, I'm gonna ask you if it's not a better way. The government covenant certainly points to the insurance policy, but it has a very hairy wording and speaks of if there is room at the end of the term. I don't think that's clear enough, and I don't think that's a good answer for our young people who can choose the whole world to be in the field. Here we are not talking about religion. We need to get this discussion out of the way that there is a dollar or a dollar or a dollar or something. We need to sit down and be people to make a balanced decision as to what is best and how we can have the best future for young people in this country. If the conclusion eventually turns out after we've lifted ourselves up from the pits in order to get the best result, I'll be the first man to support it. [[The president calls.]] But take that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u19	Madam President. The talk about the Icelandic crown as a boy. A senator, of course, took in such an emotional way here at the end of the day with such a fluctuating attitude that a foreign currency becomes so expensive that it weighs very much on the public or that the dollar becomes so strong as it is today that the common people sees in the huge bloc. At the same time, companies are getting weaker, as is society's foundation. Of course, this should be discussed openly. I agree with you, too. A senator says that we should examine more than this. There's no doubt that the reduction of the worthy tax from 24% to 22.5% will be a major compensation for the public, but I don't want to say that this is why we're here cutting off an idea of a reduction in insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u20	Madam President. Here, it would be most tempting to ask a minister of judicial matters regarding his decision and Ministership when it comes to choosing a new court order. However, since this is being discussed with the Board of Directors and Control Committee, it is proper to allow the Council to complete its work and ask the Minister for other matters, a case involving the escorted children and the position of the Minister in their affairs. Although it is my opinion that we senators are not here to discuss individual matters, there is no other option for a 16 - year - old boy from Morocco who came to Iceland in December but has been denied asylum. The boy is an unsurpassed child, but he is here with his older brother, who wants to get him to safety. The younger boy is twice as weak as an escorted child on the other hand and because of his sexual orientation. In the United States alone, the Icelandic government will boldly refer to the Order of Dublin as the basis for sending the brothers out of Iceland rather than resolve their case here. As it has been repeated, there is nothing in the Regulation that encourages Iceland to send out refugees, let alone homeless children. Therefore, this is not the legal obligation of the government but rather the policy and emphasis of the government. So I ask: What is the real position of the Minister of Justice in the affairs of unbelieving children? Will it support the beautiful promises of the government, as expressed in its government contract, to guide the efforts of children and families to make humanitarian contributions? It would be good to receive clear answers, for answers about these matters certainly have been lacking from the mouth of the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u21	A respectable president. Of course, it is strange if it is. A senator does not consider a reason to discuss some particular subject under discussion. The management and monitoring committee, however, provides reason for the use of high-ranking terms about the office of Ministers, completely unsatisfactory, here on the platform, without knowing anything about the case, where it will be discussed in a committee where it will be discussed. A senator does not sit. For the question of the why. Of course, this is an important matter and should be thanked for its interest. I have now answered this in several news hours and have discussed specifically the issues of unsupervised children. There is a real challenge for us to welcome these children. There is now work at the Ministry of Justice in the preparation of regulations that specifically address these issues. Children are assigned not only to the Ministry of Justice but to the Department of Social Affairs, Children's Office, and police authorities. One of the main objectives of the United States government is to search for their source and to seek all ways to unite these children. According to Icelandic law and so on, this is the main objective and duty of the government under international agreements. This will be taken into account in the Regulation, but while it is not set up here, a particular kind of work is performed primarily in cooperation with Children's Institutes and Children's Committees in individual rural areas, police, Foreign Institutes, and others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u22	Madam President. Because of words at the top. Minister that I've lived up here saying great things to her, I'd like to suppose that I would refuse to be advised. A minister may consider my freedom of opinion and that it is designed to determine whether I know anything about any matters under consideration at the council. I refuse to make any kind of statement like that. With regard to the issue of escorted children's affairs, it would be good to know that there is something in the career and inspection at the Ministry General. A minister because two months ago I asked the Minister of Justice for escorted children who come to the country to apply for international protection. During that time, during the two months that have passed, the minister and the Ministry have not been able to provide an answer. asks whether non-supervised children have been sent to another part of the country on the basis of the Dysicle principle and whether the Icelandic government will ensure that unsupervised children who are prevented from applying for international protection in Iceland are provided with the tools and treatments that match the international commitments of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This has not been answered for two whole months.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u23	A respectable president. I've told you I'm working on the Regulation, but I also want to make sure that while the Regulation is not set up, children like other vulnerable groups who come here for international protection and even if it's not the case. Whether or not children have been sent here according to the Order of Dublin, I suppose they should bear in mind the obligation I have mentioned here to seek family unity and make sure that the child can be reunited with his family again. Children are not sent from the country unless they have sufficient protection in the country they will be sent to, the protection they enjoy here. [[Up front.]] So children like other children are clearly defined by law, by regulations, by rules, and by actions as a sensitive group. [[The president calls.]] [[For example, consider: Why are they sent abroad?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u24	Borist has a letter from 1st. Witchest. "Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Today, therefore, a replacement for him is taking the 2nd issue of the Independence Party list in the district of Jónína E. Arnardóttir. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u25	Jónína E. Arnardóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u26	Borist has received a letter from the Environment and Resource Ministry where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 723, on contracts of the Ministry and its institutions with rural communities, from the Einar son of Brynjólfsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u27	A respectable president. Thus, it is a matter of growth that one of these differences is concerned with continuing change in fish - control laws, keeping provisional regulations that have been involved since 1990. It is a huge law, and it is surprising that at the end of each assembly, we make that decision repeatedly and that no one takes responsibility for it. Then we're about to accept new songs that have preliminary rules on the control of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u28	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: The General concludes to agree that meetings will be suspended from May 31, 2017, or later, if necessary, until September 12, 2017. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u29	A respectable president. General and educational committees have received 103 applications for the civil rights of individuals at this spring council. The committee suggests 39 applications will be approved so that a total of 51 persons will be granted a citizenship right this time. Hv. The General and Education Committee suggests that the case will proceed immediately to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u30	A respectable president. I wanted to step into the platform and wish the 51 people who are being given the Icelandic citizenship rights, congratulations on their milestone. Each of you has its own history, culture, and background which will improve the multicultural community in which Iceland is developing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u31	President. I'd like to say congratulations to the people who are now receiving citizenship. At the same time, I would like to agree with the comments of members of the Parliament, who have often taken the initiative here and suggested that this arrangement be changed. It's strange that the Allied Council is meddling in this way. I would very much like to see that it would be possible otherwise to give a citizenship right as we do here, referring to a number of tips that have been presented here by Congress. I hope that during the next session, there will be a new legal structure for this class. But congratulations to everyone who gets citizenship today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u32	Madam President. This is a bill provided by a professional health committee and I recommend it on behalf of her. It is suggested in the bill that the provisional regulations on the management of fish fish are set up, allowing Ministers to set the cost according to 5 mg. Section 8. The law to continuous cod, shall be canceled. It also suggests that three provisional regulations in the law will be extended to the end of the next year of fishing. Two. The bill is presented as an extension of regulations for temporary VIIs to interfere with the introduction of resources or other measures taken from rural areas in the case of considerable part of the local labour rights. Temporary factor VIII is also suggested, on the authority of the Minister to plan the supplies, i.e. summer antler and Norwegian-islenian herring, and mackerel for payment, will be extended until the next fishing year. It follows that, at the end of the turning macro, it is permitted to reduce up to 5.3% of the total number of macroils due to the macrotic Icelandic fishing vessels and the measures at 5 mg. Section 8. The law says the next fish hunt will be extended.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u33	Madam President. V.E.G. A fishing minister set up in April. Regulation, including about the distribution of macroil. Axel Helgason, president of the European Union of miniboaters, discussed this in an article he wrote on May 18 of the News magazine. That's where he says, by permission of a president: There is no hunting warrant on any record, and in the last season there were 37,000 tons of mackerel forecasts from those who were exposed to these quality. This year, a minister is assigning over 30,000 tons of mackerel to vessels that did not use one kilogram of their last season's authority. the kilogram, a total of over 700 million dollars. Although this is not exactly the same subject as the bill, it is the same law. I'm asking why. Senator: Must not use the trip to set in some condition for those assigned to macrovota so that we are not making the quality almost free? You turn around and sell them for a good price and stick them in your pocket. Would it not be easier to take advantage of the journey now to prevent such adjustments, and would the state itself offer out a greeting that would not be new? As we have seen in the financial program and the discussion of health care, we could devote $700 million to various practical activities for the sake of a trust fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u34	Yeah, thanks for that. I don't think this is the right scene to discuss the auction route in the fishing road. I think we'd need more time than that. But I can quite accept that this regular, annual bill from the Ministry is very late. That was even so. The reason it wasn't on the case list for the subject when it was being negotiated here for the end of the council. However, I don't think it's possible to use this trip to decide how to use or make a greeting. But I agree with what. paritaprevir For example, the Harðardóttir of Oddný G.. That there is good reason to review it in a special discussion with another occasion in the way these developments take place and whether they should set limits on it. Now, however, it is primarily about a minister being allowed to assign these 5.4% of small boats so that they will be able to engage in mackerel fishing, which hopefully begins next month. As I take these two views in many ways, but not about the auction system in the fishing field, I don't think this is the right scene and not the trip we can use so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u35	Madam President. I would like to suggest that the head of the professional committee that when the committee starts working with the case, she uses the journey to fix this point and put in terms or conditions for those who receive this quality. For now it is as if a minister gave valuable property to a contractor without charge and condition the contractor might sell it and place it in his pocket. We wouldn't agree with that. It's exactly the same thing. It is possible to use the trip and install certain terms and conditions. I want to direct it back to what. The head of the pro board to consider this matter. It's a small thing. It's not about the way out, though I'd like to go, but there are conditions that can be set up, and there's someone talking about those construction companies that get this quality assigned to us, the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u36	Just a little short on this point. I quite agree with the view that it is worth your observation, i.e. how those given will benefit from these benefits and what terms should be given. But I don't think, as I said before, that there is a natural trend toward it being linked to the payment of this case this time, at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u37	Madam President. This matter of the extension of temporary rules is all too late for the council. I don't think it's good when the Ministry presents such a case that needs to be brought up at this time, late when they need to be taken up by provisional regulations. This matter in itself is fine with smaller designs, which are being shared in both mackerel and herring. In this social part, 5.3% will be taken from the whole body for the smaller designs. It is also true that the conversation was discussed with the young man. Harðardóttir This quality, of course, will also be counted out by the other members. During the last term, the mackerel was a eater, which I believe was a bad decision and did not result in good. A national relationship between small boat owners has reported that it is reasonable that the total share of macroil should have a small share of little boats at least 16%. Similar share is e.g. In Norway. Many people, who had made out on the mackerel and thus prepared for this greeting, were badly affected. The small distribution was that it didn't pay to be made out on the mackerel. This case in itself is not bad, but I believe this rate, 5.3% of total capital catch over head, is just too low. It has long been the time for it to be reassigned, both in contents and in terms of larger items, to be added to other things than the source of the items given to the donor. Of course, attendance at fishing has gone too high, and many have achieved a total of more than 12% of total amounts through all kinds of teenage communities. Whether the government has authority or the courage to make any changes will become apparent. Now a resource committee is at work, and God knows what comes out of that job. Let's hope we get some decent government to change this fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u38	A respectable president. The above suggested that a change in these preliminary requirements be applied to 5.3% instead of 15.3%. Fired a what? My senator? Can she explain to me why she turned down that adjustment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u39	A respectable president. I'm not a seafaring minister yet, so maybe you can wait to make a few demands, but it's coming, I hear all the council halls saying. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, it's coming.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] First, though, a new proposal must be made in order to accept or reject it. Let's see what we got. A senator does that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u40	That adjustment was presented to you. A professional employment committee at a meeting of the professional road committee yesterday discussing this matter. It was given with all the votes, except for me. So it was, and there she was presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u41	A respectable president. Things don't exactly work that simple, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u43	This case came in with remarkableness at the last minute. I don't think it's a responsibility to pass it through because we'd be stopping the number of deleteds from getting their share in mackerel and herring, these smaller types. Of course, if we are going to make changes in the fishing system, we would need to have a review and therapy. We must take it seriously that we comply with the rules set by the people of the U.S. Congress and take parties into account and discuss matters in a professional way, but we do not just do something like this in the General Assembly. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator and the Piratars want everything on board now and get their work done. That's all I've heard so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u44	President. I just want to attract the attention of the U.S. Congress, if anyone has missed the fact that this case was submitted yesterday. We're about to agree with it today. I know it's just an annual adjustment proposal that's always changing the years from year to year and that's the way it's taken decades here. I think the matter deserves to be discussed properly, there are reviews, because although it has been agreed on by some ideologies in 1990, things have changed. Change has changed a lot in the past year. It is not just the routine change that has changed. It would have been nice to get reviews, even though they're changing dates. [[The president calls.]] Then I also feel that something important is to draw attention to the fact that the matter seems to have just been forgotten. That's why it's in here. It's okay that we come out here. This case is missing, going in here by nature. There's no way to run a government like this at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u45	A respectable president. It's a custom here if someone's dead to make a statement about him. I'm going to make a little note of the National Remuneration Fund of the Grand Banks of Iceland. You see, 30 years have passed, and one month since this fund became out of control, with persecution, abusiveness, wickedness, and discrimination in social society, and under the oversight of a slanderer took one. I feel a sense of freedom now, and I find that I gain freedom on January 1, 2018, when these laws come true. Thank you. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u46	President has to ask. Councilmen to be moderate in wording here in the General Meeting's symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u47	A respectable president. There's a lot of good in this case. The left movement ▪ The green supply does not violate it. We have warned, however, that there are a lot of unattractive issues in this matter. It is unclear how to perform the changes there will be allowed. It is unclear whether or not we are dealing with some sort of natural waste. We fear that by this rule will prevail. The management sector considers the financial needs of the rural organisations to be met in the development of infrastructure as a result of the growth of tourists. Because of all this doubt and the overall vision lacking in these matters, we do not vote for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u48	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjólfsson Brynlfonsson spoke to the 2nd. That's why we're friends with Pirata. That's our country government. We're a power distribution party, so we think it's a good thing that the local governments themselves have to say if and where the parking lot is taken and we support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u49	A respectable president. I'm glad this case has come to the vote and to encourage the whole assembly to vote for it and agree. However, I would like to correct what is stated in the Committee's Committee of Overseers in my section of the Committee that was submitted yesterday, as we deal only with the ideas presented in the Committee's list of aspects that require special attention to the competitiveness of Iceland's soil analysis. We do not feel the need to look to any such viewpoints in particular. We're simply glad that Iceland's geological readings will enjoy the changes it holds and eventually all of us will.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the U.S. Congress for winning this good case in agreement and cooperation and thanking for the changes I'd like to see and that the official data on land readings will be as accessible as data in other institutions as the public tax money will be used in the best way of choosing the changes made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u51	Madam President. The committee was well pleased with this, and the comments of the members of the committee were considered, which is very good. I just wanted to stress that this plan is valid for only one year. It was assumed in the Committee that we would be very careful about working on the next strategy in the fall and that it would last four years after the government election under child protection law. It was important that this be handled and accepted by the committee. That's why we're paying this vote, we're on green.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u52	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank you. well-being committee for good cooperation and targeted work on changing proposals for this strategy. I also place great emphasis on what is bad. A well - being committee is now meeting, despite the fact that a council is about to finish and discuss the facilities for children and adolescents and what the situation will be if treatment homes are closed, as we have been told that the current pressures are high. It's important to do what you want. Senators on the welfare committee discuss it and find findings that will improve children and young people who need the services being given today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u53	President. There are a lot of good things in this program. I agree with what. A senator who before me spoke about the need to discuss the issues of young people who need help about, for example, Addiction. What I want to emphasize about this is that we have an enormous amount of cool plans and policies on children, but it has to be ensured, if plans like this, that the funds are involved. It's just that way. Then I'd like to be glad that a so-called ART service is expected for children, and hopefully funds will be made to promote it, which is a very useful resource and has been of great benefit to many children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u54	Madam President. I'd like to thank the Committee for a good job in this matter, and especially for the changes proposed in the Committee's list of parts that will be considered on the effects of funds to social, health, and educational matters in the lives of disabled people. And to emphasize the importance of funding with the tasks to be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u55	A respectable president. I also want to thank the members of the Committee for the implementation of this case. This is a very important matter, but we didn't finish everything with disabled people's affairs, but these were the first steps of paying that way. I want to thank you too. The welfare committee for promising to continue working on these matters for some time between council members so that we can properly finish what we have to complete in the affairs of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u56	Madam President. As I previously mentioned in pontu, OECD reports that the proportion of the state at drug cost is with the lowest in the Member States of OECD. In particular, I welcome the Commission's conclusion that it has been important to improve this policy to ensure that Iceland's Medical Insurance is actively involved in the drug cost of users and that it is working to prevent anyone from denying necessary drugs for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u57	Madam President. I want to thank the welfare committee for good work at a drug conference. The matter has improved in cooperation with the Commission and the Ministry. That's fine. It is important that we have a good and strong pharmaceutical policy. This is one of the most important health - care seminaries and the fastest - growing classes in expenses. So I welcome this policy of drugs, thank you very much for your cooperation and believe that this policy of drugs will be a good basis for an overall review of medications that I expect to contribute right back to the autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u58	Madam President. There is good reason to celebrate this program and to thank for the work it has been doing on committees and elsewhere. This is a very important step toward dealing with climate. I would like to encourage it to be agreed here in agreement and to remind us of our obligation, both the European Commission and the legislature, to ensure sufficient funds for this first step and many of the subsequent activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u59	Madam President. I also welcome this bill and want to remind you that financial support is needed if you are going to succeed. But I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we've given far too little attention to our settlements, to our towns. In Iceland, about 75% of the population now live in the rest of the population. 65% of the people live here in the capital area. The largest improvements in climate change, energy exchange, will be with more efficient habitats. I'd like to encourage us to take on that matter, build strong public transportation, and finance a city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u60	A respectable president. I, like other members of Congress, welcome this resolution, its conclusions, and its solidarity. I remind you that in order for it to become reality, we need to strengthen Landsnet's transport system through the country to transport the electricity. We want the generator ports, the electrons, the fish farms, and to increase safety in electrical transport across the country. It is also included in the package when we agree to this good plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u61	A respectable president. A energy exchange operation plan is a matter that we can all unite in. It is very important that funding follow the suggestion. This proposal is made for the year 2030 and reevaluated every five years. My priorities in this matter are that each government will provide funds to follow the important objectives made in the proposal. These are very ambitious goals. There is also an increase in funding for research and technological development, since all of this costs money. We need to build up the interiors of the country so that energy exchanges can really be made, either on land, sea, or in the air. It is not enough to put a beautiful effort plan into energy exchanges on paper; we also need to show it in financial terms at any time that financial resources follow all the necessary tasks presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u62	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank you. The welfare committee and other factors. Councilmen for our fine work on this matter of priority to the candidates of this council. This is a suggestion that involves the highest. Healthcare professionals are assigned to continue working under the supervision of a healthcare professional. However, what this suggests is that many other developments have been made so far are to be viewed as geographic factors, populations of age, distances between communities, population development, sites of a medical vehicle, access to hospital flights, summerhouse settlements. Commencing users and professionals. The General Board of Education shall inform us about the progress of the case. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education should come up with a plan to ensure funding and design for the seminary and the Council shall be informed about the progress of the case. It should be at the beginning of the 2017 fall and then at regular intervals until the project is completed. But thanks a lot. City of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u63	A respectable president. There is reason to welcome the proposed proposal; the whole health program that covers the whole country, the region as well as the capital area. We have heard this in the last part of society's discussion that in some areas of this service, as well as in some areas of high value, the services of the ministry, and the most precious. All of us have strong opinions about how we want to conduct this service and the will of the people of the land to be strengthened. This has been confirmed by signing and a recent survey. I hope that a minister will work hard to achieve a new health plan rapidly and definitely but that the whole process will be difficult and we will see the results as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u64	Madam President. I welcome this proposal, as it is in harmony with government policy, which is presented in a government contract that says that we will be working on a global health policy that will oversee the entire medical system. This proposal for health care is very consistent with that work and thinking. I'm celebrating it. She's coming into work that's already done at the Ministry. I'm happy to cooperate with what. A well - being committee and General in this important matter, which the general public has shown in a handsome way, is of great importance, as the government has also stated in its constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u65	V.E.G. President. As a member of the welfare committee, I thank you for your cooperation with this proposal or her payment on the Committee. This is a proposal from a political body that was discussed in the Committee, where a good discussion was made. I thank the members and the chairman of the Committee for its part in this, and as health ministers for good cooperation with the hearing. Everyone agrees that there is a great need for a general health policy. Work on the schedule can greatly help us to get along with them. Of course, opinions arise, but they are to be solved. On our welfare committee work, I believe that there have been many viewpoints that can be useful since work in the Ministry, but as noted, such programs have been under way not only in the past but also in the case of the Ministry. Ministers of health and those who once served in that office. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u66	A respectable president. There is reason to rejoice that Iceland is now following this suggestion in the footsteps of most of our neighboring nations who have made it formal. For many individuals and their families, this is a big interest. It is a community affair that becomes more persistent and that affects all of us in one way or another at some point during our lives. The extra funds are not in the foreground. Much more is being said to call for official attention and to give this issue a formal place. This is an aspect that will increase the demand for social infrastructure over the years. The conclusion is that our community uses our resources systematically, shows an increased understanding of family problems and circumstances, and that our humanity and respect will be guided.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u67	Madam President. Here is another suggestion that comes from a representative of the small body on the welfare committee. I want to be like the present, especially a good suggestion, which is in the spirit of the government's policy and the General, that we form a comprehensive health policy, and we are more active in making policies and also being organized on certain factors. The ministry in the Ministry has sometimes called us up from the drawers, as we are also working on and have been working on. With special emphasis on the issues of the elderly and the brain in this matter, I believe that we are in an orderly manner involved in developing some of the most important issues of the next few years and decades, the cause of the elderly. I especially welcome the proposal, thank you very much for it and my cooperation with a welfare committee, and look forward to continuing my cooperation in the introduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u68	Madam President. I am very happy that this proposal has come to a vote, and members of the council agree so well with it. This is one of our priorities in the United States and under control. Brjánsson She has gone all the way. Iceland is one of the few countries without any particular policy in these and the only North American state. I hope with the approval now, I hope it will be better. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u69	A respectable president. This is a suggestion to eliminate the discrimination that now takes place between mothers by intervening marriage and living together. I want to thank you. The General and Education Committee is very much concerned with her work to bring this matter to its conclusion in a positive way. Now the mothers of intermarriage or registered couples are required to hand out the National Registry of Iceland a declaration that their child is conceived with the benefit of assisted reproductive techniques, or the only registered parent to give birth to the child is the woman. This requirement is not for straight - minded persons, and it is suggested to correct this discrimination. The Commission is making this proposal, as it may be necessary to adjust the procedure, that the General decided to hide a transport and rural government minister in consultation with the Minister of Justice to see that the objective of the proposal is met.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to be happy to know that this council resolution proposal will hopefully be adopted here, now in the 172th year of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, and actually five more days, because he died in Copenhagen on May 26, 1845, as the people of the country are likely to know. I believe it was time and it is time to show the memory of this great poet and naturalist and the environment where he was born and grew up a child's year of proper respect and hope that this council-sense proposal will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u71	Madam President. It's adorable, but it's important. Here we have the only issue that has to do with the arts that we do today. It is important to think of culture and to remember old artists. This should serve as a reminder that we too need to consider that our contemporary culture and contemporaries and that we need to do much better there, increase financial support there. And when it comes to it, I will be as delighted as I am. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason did the tenth vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u72	Madam President. It has been a joy to see how great and good peace has been over many matters today, but this will not be one of them. There has been much discussion about how defective this matter is. Although we are fulfilling the EEA Convention's terms, this case has been postponed repeatedly because there is a certain danger, a real system hazard, of agreeing to it as the standard is, as the currency is, fluttering these days. The benefits of proper security for all have not been sufficiently prepared. There are some good changes made from a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee in this case. I hope they'll be approved to try to save what will be saved. But I hope this case is denied.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to review some of the facts presented in the latest edition of Iceland's Federal Bank, which says: In most cases, Iceland's income and property are in the United States and therefore large sections of Icelandic households are undefeated for currencies.... Substantial access to foreign loans and improvement in terms could result in efforts of loan companies to expand their accounts and to national citizens without charge for currency costs of growth. A respectable president. What does this mean in English? Yes, there is an increase in risk. It is about to increase in our system unless the body of Congress agrees with the modification proposal of the smaller section, which means that these loans cannot be given unless the person has a foreign property in return. So I strongly urge you to vote with financial status instead of against him.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u74	Madam President. Overall, this issue involves a political decision to pay for the access of wealthy people to a cheaper foreign funding that will not be available to others and that can be at the expense of others in society, for it can affect both financial status andarity. The smaller part on the Economic and Business Committee, like what? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy and Lilja Alfreðsdóttir went over here in their case suggest some adjustment that we believe will improve the situation. We hope to do it. The members of the greater body take note of the caution we have given in this matter. Otherwise, we will take the matter into account if the adjustment is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u75	V.E.G. President. While freedom is delightful and desirable, it is necessary to keep national emancipation and set further conditions, especially at the top of the pace. It has been emphasized by the candidates all along, when this case has been discussed, to limit loans associated with foreign currency to those who are responsible for such risks. The same has been true of Iceland's Secret Bank repeatedly in its reviews and in its borrower's standing up for payment and providing insurance insurance, just as the smaller section suggests to make changes. I support that adjustment, a respectable president, and I can't support this case otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u76	A respectable president. This matter is now much simpler than it has been described here. It's not about financing, it's about simple calculus. I've put here on paper two formulas with several variable sizes, and once I put these formulas up, the same parameters are the same in both formulas. One of them has been judged in some way by the Supreme Court; the other is permitted. It has nothing to do with financial stability. There's no sign of loans to the wealthy. There are all the same requirements for payment in the bill that is here for votes, so it's just a bit of a mix-up. [[The president calls.]] I hope that the adjustment proposal will be dropped and that the bill, in fact, increases equality with people and has nothing to do with them, will be accepted in the form the greater part suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u77	Madam President. My good friend. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason can come up here with calculators and wave them out of a pont, depending on the committee's discussion, that the memory of the object, which is grammatical and full of evidence, was ignored. It is about that not everyone will have access to this funding. That's why it can't be. The senator did not object. It is not enough for him to come up here and talk about misinformation in his case without making any perfunctory argument. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u78	A respectable president. It was as bad as we feared. I don't know if there's a logic problem. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son has convinced the greater part final that it is wise to let a little in Iceland get access to cheap loans and that the risks will then fall on the public. However, the 32 who made the adjustment and then plan to support this matter are responsible. I've asked you twice in this pontte when it's done. Is that when 50 billion are gone? Or 100? V.E.G. The minister of finance has not been able to answer it or the committee at that time. But those 32 here voted with this bill and the adjustment is responsible for it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-31-76.u79	A respectable president. As I spoke of at the beginning of the council, I'm going to make a comment to that when the more part of the subject treads through with a smaller portion of the paid votes. This is one of those times. There you go.
