ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u1	Mr. President. A letter commission has met and reviewed matters that might be heard to her at work. It should be noted that in the controversies leading to Congress, a preparatory group consisting of the same members of Parliament and later elected to a draft board to discuss the terms available. This informal group had four meetings in the conniving process to understand the views involved. After the draft board was elected earlier today, the committee formally met and finished the discussion on these points. For a letter board, it was primarily about the money of conflict that was sent to her by the Supreme Court in individual terms. A committee article that has been distributed reviews the issues of opinion and the results of each decision-making committee on a case by case basis, and I don't think it's a reason to reason here but rather refer to the results there. I want to know that in our work there was a solid agreement on the conclusions you can read from the opinion. As observed in some cases, the outcome was modified, while in other cases findings were confirmed. The commission stated that her suggestions on the outcome of these conflicts were not that it had any effect on the outcome of the General election and was used to inform government officials on these matters so that none of the people we were dealing with there had or could influence the results of the General election as such. In our opinion, there are as many points as there are, and first, I would like to mention that to a letter committee, it was given to a charge in the implementation of an election in the Northeast standard. The Commission reviewed that charges against this case were intended for the treatment of a police officer in the area. This is what the committee saw, and I quote directly to the text: ▪ This highlights the importance of quickly responding to individual charges directed to the local sheriff's appointed authorities, as stated at 119 C.E. Act of the election for the Generals. In her view, such an action strengthens faith in free and democratic elections. At the same time, the committee here emphasizes the importance of terms being able to conform to their implementation. It is the opinion of the Committee that in order to promote such activity, it is important that the ideal management of a book, as 1 mgr. Twenty-niner. a law of elections to the Generals, if they decide in effect to depart in any way from the unique orders of elections to the Council. This is about the charge that in some case or case, a child would have taken a voter to a ballroom. It was the Advertising Committee that it was not a cause for the committee to question the outcome of the election in spite of the opinion related to it. While the decision to dismiss this issue is being made by the Committee, it points out the point that in these areas will be in line. Regarding elections in general, it is also discussed in the opinion of the Advisory Committee and quoted earlier the opinion of the stock committees, which discusses a review of the terms of elections to the General Assembly. It is clear that this work has taken place and has been able to submit a bill at the General Assembly for changes in election laws, which are essentially technical in view of experience with the implementation of elections. A letter committee mentions a number of factors, a technical application point that would be a reason for taking into account this review. According to this, it is suggested by the Advertising of the nobles and vices elected by the elections at the end of October that will be approved and found in the opinion of the nobility list and the local defencers. The ability to do what is right. The senators studied that list here, but I will not read it on this occasion. When you say so, I'll make it my proposal on behalf of the stock board that the stocks will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u2	We thank the chairman of the draft board. No other calls have been made, and talk has ended with the Commission's opinions and suggestions, and they are agreed on. It is suggested that the vote is considered valid, as well as the election of members of Congress, and that the ballots of all council members, as well as markets as many of the vice presidents, will be agreed upon at the end of the General Assembly election on October 28, 2000. I'll bring up the entire ballot stock in one piece, i.e. Advertising letters of the nobility board and its vice presidents, which appear in the opinion of the Advisory Committee, will be considered approved without a vote if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u3	According to point two. Congress must be made up of members of the general council who are now taking their first position at the Council for the first time signing a vow of honor to the Constitution. Of the 19 newly elected generals, nine have taken their place at the Council, one senator is absent and will sign his vows later, so nine new senators will sign their vows at this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u4	Honorable generals. I would like to thank you for the confidence you have shown me by choosing me to serve as President of the Generals. I will do my best to gain that trust and exert myself as president to all members of the council alike. The support I received from the vote for office gives me further encouragement. I have this wish that this is the best place to cooperate between all of us. All of the council members and all council members for the work that the nation has given us in our recent elections. I also expect a good cooperation with the fine staff of the Generals. I welcome all members of the council to serve at the 148th legislature. Special congratulations, I present to the general council members who are now serving for the first time as members of the council, asking for success in their work. I also wish those who now take their first steps in the Ministry of Success. The decrease in the share of women in the council group is some of the shadow of this session. Women now make up 38% of the body of Congress, but they were 48% after the 2016 election, which was certainly the best result. In one year, we fell from fourth place worldwide to 17th. I hope that this setback will encourage the political parties to promote women in the commercial arts and provide them with conditions for political participation, as there is no sludge of wealthy politicians among women all over the country. It is very unusual for us to gather for Christmas during the second season, but in recent years there has also been no ordinary times in our community. The emotional turmoil that has characterized politics since the 2008 collapse reminds us of some of the turmoil in Icelandic politics during the first decades of the 20th century of independence. After the total election in 1916, two years before Iceland became an independent and sovereign state, there were eight members of the General Assembly. In the over 100 years since then, it has not been equald until now. Since the 2009 General election, conventions have increased by one election, five in 2009, six in 2013, seven in 2016, and finally eight this year. This number of classes in the General Assembly follows both pros and cons. While the General will reflect more fully the political views of society, it is at the same time possible for a functioning government to be difficult to develop unless groups show political flexibility and compromise to the national will that the election shows. Thus, the complexity of the election process has led to the historic conclusion that governments have been ending in Icelandic politics, which has not happened for over 70 years. From here on out of the President's chair, a new government called for success. I suppose that the whole U.S. Congress is like me, to rejoice on the behalf of the Generals over the special emphasis to promote the General Assembly in the Treaty of a new government. I don't know that such emphasis has been made before, at least not with such weight as today, and likely never as part of the title of the government covenant, which states that it is a covenant for government cooperation and for the advancement of the Council of II. On behalf of the Generals, I rejoice that you will not be supporting the legal, financial, and surveillance of the Generals during the election season with increased support for committees and members of Congress. As the active president of the Generals indicated that I immediately presented proposals for this subject to the government. The first steps in this direction will be right next year, as shown in the budget bill being submitted today. Increased financial support for the General will include published in the issue of service carried out by committee committees, as well as by contributions to special service at councils, and by appointment of assistants, the state of Congress will be increased. Of course, in furtherance of these first steps to the progress of the assembly, which will be taken immediately next year, we need to have close cooperation in the field of the chairman of the council and on the presiding committee once it has been properly established. However, in this list I have not mentioned what is considered most important to the Council, but there is ongoing support that will soon be raised at the General Assembly of the Office, which releases some of the inaccessible rented houses on the side and stand here in the Qunos, which the General Assembly has had to use for a long time. There is no need to tell members how important it is to have all the activities of the Generals and the work position of the members of the Parliament in the areas where their housing will be interconnected. Such modern and specialized work facilities are not a small part in strengthening the General Assembly. I hope that the project can be started from the middle of the next year. The discussion that women in a number of professions, including those in politics, have surfaced under the title #metoo or the # shadows of the last few weeks about inappropriate behavior, sexual harassment, and outright violence, has left no one unmoved. The uncivilized world we've been allowed to see into, and that's where politics are not excluded, calls for action. I received a letter, signed by nearly 40 male members and councilmen, where reactions are tore up, and had previously met with the officers of the council who took the immediate initiative to react. There is a desire to make a special meeting with members of the Parliament early next year on this matter. Then I have already assigned the General body of law to set up and evaluate the best way to handle these matters at the council, especially by reviewing the standards of the council so that they make a clear application of what is considered inappropriate in these matters. Next year, we celebrate the Icelanders'100 years since Iceland became a free and sovereign state. For this reason a planned meeting is scheduled on July 18th, but on the day before a century ago, the Treaty of Iceland ended and he signed here in this house. A meeting in the Houses under the open air is a special experience and a rather rare event that will overtake all present members of Congress for the first time and possibly some for one time in their contingency. It is then in the hands of the government to celebrate the celebrations of December 1, the next year, when the Treaty of the Union will have been established. In addition to the two major events of the anniversary year, a birthday committee elected by the General Assembly and its manager has worked on various events and projects spread over the anniversary of the year and aims for the success of national participation in these celebrations. To this end, 100 projects have been reinforced throughout the country, but further events and projects can be expected to increase on the program as they enter the birthday year itself. So there are exciting times ahead, exciting years, and exciting days, dignitaries. We are awaiting a thorough assignment that we have the right to do about ten active days in order to ensure that the State has been made a budget and other necessary arrangements made before the new year begins. In December a year ago, the General passed the test under unusual circumstances, and I am convinced that it will do so again. But it takes a huge amount of work short of time and a good cooperation. That's what I said. I thank you for the confidence I've been shown. I appreciate it, as if I care about my work for almost half of the human age. I expect good cooperation with the entire world on the vital things that we are waiting for in the near future, and then I know that the staff of Generalis will not leave theirs behind, but they will also have much to do with the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u5	The following reports have been received on the heads of Congress groups: Archduke's Group: Chairman Ólafur Ísleifsson, Chairman Hjaltason Gautiçan vice president and Ingi In Kristinsson Group member: Chairman Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir, Vice President Willum Þór Þórsson and Agent Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Group of the Central Party: Chairman Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Vice President Bergþór Ólason, and secretary to Árnadóttir Kolbrún. House of Pirata: Chairman Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, Ostir Hrafn Gunnarsson, vice president and secretary of the writing of Jón Þór Ólafsson. Group of United States Group: Oddný G. Chairman Harðardóttir, Vice President Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Vice President Elíasdóttir Frildur Furbjörg, secretary. Group member of the Independence Party: Prefect of the Birgir's Ármannsson, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn's Daughter, Vice President Árnason Arna. Parliamentary Group: Chairman Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and vice president Jón Steindór Valdimarsson Group of Left Antic: Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson son of secretary
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u6	The president wants to suggest that the revised committee of fixed committees will not be effective until after the year, but until then the committees will provide meetings as needed and under the circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u7	In addition, the president wants to suggest that at the beginning of the council members sign a declaration that they have studied the rules of ethics for the members of the council approved by Congress on March 16, 2016. At the table of the newly elected senators, who were not here during the past session, the synopsis of ethics and declarations are to confirm it. Right away. Congress officials have studied the rules, and they are asked to present a signed declaration in the Parliamentary Office that they have studied and signed the Code.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u8	Prominent prime minister on behalf of the government, as stated in Article 62. Congress is being introduced tonight, and talking about it. Start the discussion at 0800 hours. 6:30. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Passing takes three, nine minutes, five minutes, and four minutes, but prime minister has 16 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-14-1.u9	Relations have to be searched from the council, i.e. Endnote 3. Congress, so that the seat of the council members can be considered separately, and they are next to the entrance here, as is customary, and for great economic gain, and then they are drawn to one another in each one of these seats. If no one opposes them, let them look at their strains approved. With confidence that this would be approved, the heads of the Parliament have already taken their Gunnar at a meeting with a president yesterday and are these seats: Bragi the Sveinsson of Ármannsson will be seated, 2, Egilsdóttir Lólurdóttir 8, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, seat 7, Thorhild Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótsdótir 13, Ólafur Ísleifsson, number 22, Gunnarsdóttir Oln, Oddný of Gunnsdny Harðardóttir Then there has been an agreement on how things should be handled by members of the council. Senators Sæland Gaand and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson can have a seat that is especially convenient for them. Gets Inga Sæland Seat 6 and Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson, number four.
