ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u1	Boris has been speaking for the Council of Pirata about the switch in committees, that Halldóra Mogensen takes his place in Hrafn Hafns Gunnarsson as a deputy of the European Parliament's National Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u2	Mr. President. This first financial bill of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is nothing more than a betrayal of voters who were promised something completely different. The added addition and management teams are so happy that you could be compared to a miscalculation of 2.2%. Even the budget we talked about during the days brought back a higher amount. As inequities increase, the government will use force. More important, it is not the controls they possess to counteract inequities. This is totally unacceptable, and it is not an answer to public calls for a strong welfare system and an improvement in the interests of those who are bad at heart in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u3	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on the 2018 budget. The discussion earlier today, 2 / 15 " On the contrary, I felt very material and good - contrary to what I said. paritaprevir It's a Oddný new Harðardóttir. Changes provided here in the preferred carton carton part and nominal body divided by The contribution to the health centres of the country, in transport, to the environment in which natural institutions are being met all over the country, so here are many important social and social projects that are taking the greater part to react after the week. This budget is highly responsible, as it was presented here, today's economic effect, and its priorities are very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u4	Mr. President. I'm not very fond of this budget bill for various reasons. As I've traced these talks, this includes a considerable increase in expenses, but the worst is that the increase is very uncertain. It is not designed to improve the situation anywhere; it is designed to maintain an unacceptable condition in many places. The worst part about this is, Mr. President, with this budget bill being placed in place for an enormous failure that cannot be made, or at least. Very difficult, to correct if it becomes legal. In this regard, I am not at all talking about the financial system, how people throw away the tremendous opportunities for improving that system now, opportunities that will not remain there, and like the health system where priorities of the bill are being replaced by the present system rather than using the opportunity to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u5	A respectable president. We are walking at this time to vote on budgets for 2018, after 2 Peter 3: 1. Environment, budgets that carry a major turn of policy, highlightes that were chosen in elections in the fall, the emphasis that most crystals in the fact that we now add greater weight and emphasis on health, education, environmental issues, and the growth of the World Council. But expenses are not goals, but expenses are a tool for us to improve our ability to make things work. As a result, these budgets are important to see that we have achieved the protection of economic stability and success and are responsible. Our responsibility is to enforce these laws so that they will benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u6	A respectable president. Pirates and I offer a number of changing schemes that are derived from our shadowies. They're such adjustments to this budget bill that we don't even know about. We don't really know what we're going to accept here because there's nothing based on a legitimate financial programme and policy set out there; because it's not torn apart and explained in the financial bill on what it's supposed to be. I would be very careful to commend some change of direction, something like that, in terms of this financial bill. We still have to review what the crowns that are on the budget actually mean for the next year. We don't know, we just have to be honest with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u7	Mr. President. The new budget guarantees a job interview on important issues, and we come by showing further on the financial agenda of a new government, and the rest will be based on it. It was clear to everyone that not all the government agreements would be swallowed at one time and all the campaign programs would be fulfilled in two weeks. However, we achieved 1.1% every week for an increase. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We need to work in accordance with long-term vision, a careful approach to making a reasonable financial program for building up, showing our clear long-term policy. In this way, we demonstrate the work that the people call for. 15 billion more to promote the systems that are truly equal in this country are not poor financial resources. These billions will be important to ordinary people in the country every day. Children receive higher child - care benefits, older people, and poorer people first enjoy lower health - care pay parts, and mental - health services at the top, and the entire population will enjoy later in the season. The health system throughout the country is built up to this degree, and it is our most important common value. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. These are the first steps of a new government, and there are also improvements in cases involving sexual abuse, as well as many other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u8	Mr. President. The big disappointment in this budget is that the high economic growth, the prosperity that has marked the economy here in the past year and year, should not be used, and this great opportunity is now being used to bring about the best interests of those who are in Icelandic society. Likewise, this opportunity is not used to strengthen a wide variety of infrastructures in our society, including health care. We will, of course, support the focal point's proposed proposal for further contributions to these factors, even if not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u9	Mr. President. To achieve only more than 2% change in the budget bill of the former government, as the left-hand green painted as a right starving policy, a few weeks ago is a terrible success. There's no extra on child support, no interest improvements, no additional birthworm too, no more on the flat matter. More of the budget is setting 0K. In the hospital, and medical institutions in the country receive only half of what they wanted at a meeting of the Committee, just to keep the operation intact. The disappointments are huge, and it will be interesting to watch that the left green will follow this along with a percentage increase every week thereafter. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is obvious that the first financial bill of the Jakobsdóttir of Katrín is badly betrayed by child - rearing, low - paying, and middle cartels.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u10	Mr. President. The financial bill is not based on government financial laws. It is not based on current financial policy, it is not based on a current financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u11	A respectable president. The discussion on the budget of the day is usually a very large debate in which we deal with the economic situation. The discussion with the 2nd issue will be followed. budgets that no one announces that a crisis is ahead for an Icelandic nation. There is light ahead, and there is no disagreement about it here in the Hall of Congress. However, there has been a wide variety of views on the bill itself. Various people here say that there are not too much money or too much money and too much money, that there is too much tax increase or too little tax increase. In fact, we were told just before that we didn't even know if we were spending on the right thing or where we were going. What stands out is that in the first few days, the government is taking up the income market of the elderly, strengthening the health system with increasing management resources and increased financial resources, education, and transportation, and at the same time as financial responsibility, has paid up debts since its start. [[The president calls.]] We're on the right track. We're bright ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u12	A respectable president. This is a matter of general agreement between categories and the public before elections, but in a magically time, we have observed the explicit promises of decommissioning a valuable tax on books mutagenicly to something called a surgical approach. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] I'm going to suggest that we accept this change proposal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u13	A respectable president. Despite the fact that the additional tax on books is not removed here tonight, how glad it is that a parapolitic agreement was made to eliminate it and, of course, a certain achievement, since this case was certainly not on the program several months ago! To strengthen the publication setting, the more important part has decided to cancel the value tax on books and the next year the output will be available. You need to make more use of the time to control whether the valuable tax will be taken away from all the books published in this country or only to those written in Icelandic. Of course, the government will be working on this matter so that its progress can become rapid and secure. The objective is clear and will also govern the greater part. The subject is indeed on the program of Icelandic politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u14	Mr. President. This proposal is about to cancel the product discount for car rent. It was said that the discount collapsed at the end of the year. In recent years, the quality of tourism has been very successful in running cars in this country. There is no sound evidence that renters enjoy this privilege anymore. Reason support at the highest. A financial minister for extending the discount is more than a little peculiar than a bill with a bill to legalize the change of various laws due to budgets for 2018 reports that there is evidence that driving agencies have overinvestled in public cars. I repeat, overinvest. I ask you, fine senators: should the taxpayers pay for overinvestment of certain companies? The public citizen cannot expect a government fund to give him special tax appeal if he goes ahead and overinvested. This is a good suggestion because it sees that the tax returns to the state funds, 1,500 million, would be used on the following project: 200 million in the doubled Rhine Ways of Refjörður, 480 million in all the health institutions in the country's area to buy equipment and 200 million in climate, carbon binding, 100 million to the state's development, and 100 million in the land - healing. [[The president calls.]] I urge you, fine senators, to vote with the proposal and with your convictions but not on the ranks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u15	Mr. President. Here we recommend an additional 800 million to promote law enforcement in this country. This is an earmark of a particularly improved treatment in the battle against sexual abuse. It was observed on the budget bill that once information systems and software update were reduced, there would be only about 180 million improvements in the treatment of sexual abuses next year. Therefore, the government defends only 0.02% of its income on this important task that the whole community has called after government puts first. We need to set up a major offense against violence, increase the number of policemen, and place a billion people in the big press. That's why I encourage Congress to say yes to this adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u16	Mr. President. This proposal goes on to add an additional 370 million to law enforcement as follows: It is suggested that 250 million projects be set up as a national police office and a tax office can go to combat organized crime. The battle against organized crime will not be carried out by monotonous measures, but the budget being discussed here is the first step toward further support for national research against organized crime. It is suggested that 50 million will be spent in increasing the number of detectives at the office of the South's Chief of Police, 10 million to renew research equipment for the same office, 50 million at the projection pool for national training and training and training of investigators, as well as 10 million in police work on juvenile criminals. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u17	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, I would have wanted to see a significantly greater way of transportation next year. Many very important transportation projects simply cannot wait. The union proposes a very moderate form of adjustment, which I strongly suggest. Senators to support you. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u18	Mr. President. This suggestion involves the important task of placing 820 million in double Rhine Roads within Hafnarfjörður. We all know this road. He's very dangerous and busy. There was a serious accident just this morning. It's a great process of transportation, and I trust Congress officials are now interested in supporting. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u19	A respectable president. I will, of course, give this proposal my vote. I hope that more members of the council will now use this opportunity, change the color of the table, and make this suggestion because it is, as it turned out. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson, an enormously efficient transportation program that needs to be performed, i.e. We need money for it. It's a dangerous thing to do. There was an accident the last time this morning. We have been faced with challenges, especially when the mayor of Hafnarfjörður and others sent us a challenge to deal with this as quick as possible. Now, my dear senators, I speak especially to the Southwestern district members, to come to the green button, and to proceed with this matter. Come on, green! [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Sounds like it. A senator says he's going to support (GBS: And I say yes.) The proposal, but it pays to vote.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u20	And I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u21	The proposal, but it pays to vote.)
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u22	Mr. President. This government was preaching a great deal of transportation. Still, we face the fact that the next year, according to a transport plan, 7 billion are missing. That's after the addition that the government added. V.E.G. In the past evening, a minister of transportation gave an unjudged talk that minimized the transport plan, referred to it as some sort of fantasy or outcast of the council. Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister was to be an active prime minister at the time this plan was adopted. The person who was holding the work as head of the Environment and Transport Committee was a special spokesman. Minister, Höskuldur Þórhallsson. The minister now speaks of this as some kind of utopia, some kind of nonsense, and therefore he does not have to stick to a transport program approved by the council. Mr. President. Here we're just adding a little bit. We do not even expect the government to implement the Council's transport program, we just expect the necessary measures to be taken. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson described earlier. [[The president calls.]] Surely, at least the council members of the Southwestern District must support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u23	A respectable president. I'm especially glad to hear that adjustment, for it involves, like, a whale. Councilmen have talked about before me, increases in transport matters that are extremely important. I believe all transportation resources are well spent. As indicated by the opinion of a greater proportion of the budget committees, the movement is marked by traffic safety issues that are among our most important projects these days. I especially welcome contributions to Grindavik Road, one of the most accidental and risky roads in the country and in the nation's economy, so important to be fixed. [["Smoking on "Smoking Course of Smoke... "]] It is important, too, and it is well along, and it needs to be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u24	A respectable president. I also agree that transportation is important. I'm sure we all hope to see an extremely successful transport plan from a new head of transport in the new year. I especially rejoice that we have contributed a considerable amount of money to the Valley of the Cradle, which has been waiting a very long time. It is also a security case, just as it is in many other ways. Because there is more to it, I'm also going to mention that market agencies are being promoted to the non-needed parts of the country. Then, too, consumers are being added where they are expected to be met with increased assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u25	A respectable president. As more people do, I would like to welcome this added section of the budget to transport, and I would like to indicate that 200 of these 755 million are being restored and increased safety in the Gravitary Way. Over the past few years, the number of people has increased dramatically, 14% in the last five years. This is the most accidental and dangerous road in the country according to EuroRap. Millions of tourists visit the Blue Lion every year, making it necessary to make significant improvements in safety and to get the road to transport. That's very urgent this new year. There are also 75 million for public transport, and it is also very important to support public transport in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u26	Mr. President. Although I work for specific improvements in transport, I have to draw attention to the fact that a year's right has passed since a very cool transport plan was adopted. It stands unfundable here the second time the budget is approved, at least for the second time. Not a full piece of money. It's a shame. The Council is not to accept suggestions that are just some kind of ideas into the wind. If things are not to be financed, they are not to be done, so do not agree with these suggestions, so I hope that we can finance it in the future and do it right. A lot of countries around the country have broken pots in terms of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u27	A respectable president. As more and more people do, I welcome the tremendous increase in transport, which on the one hand goes to public transportation, and I am divided between parts of the country that are crucial to improving and continuing to develop; and yet, there is an important contribution to transport safety, as has been attributed, through the Valleys and the Grinsavits. Similarly, as more people have entered, market offices of the country that are important in distributing tourists around the country. Other important matters are here too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u28	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment came to the branch office and said that he was not proud of the numbers that should be put into the important category of issues called climate. The media, of course, wants to back up on the top. The Environment Minister of this matter suggests that there will be an additional 100 million and more to the Forestland State and 100 million to the State's agriculture to fight this climate effect that all of us are concerned about. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u29	Mr. President. In the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, earlier this evening, whether there was any hope for the government to show that she was really serious about implementing new practices at the General Assembly in this vote, taking into account good advice, even though they came from a government position. If the members of the left movement are going to submit our proposal for increased land healing to meet the climate crisis, it may be obvious that this government is not going to do anything new at the council and is simply against everything that comes from a government position, i.e. If left greens are going to refuse a proposal for land healing that is designed to help us reach the target of climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u30	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and tell you that the clinics that had landed under the cut-off knife are funded again, i.e. They get funding on the base of the network. Under there are two contracts. It is also finishing the National Park at Hellissandi, a project that has taken way too long and is long overdue. I think we're here just making sure not only of jobs in the scattered areas but also of good research and a variety of monitoring activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u31	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we've made our living rooms higher than they've been for a while. Here they are, up to 44.8 million sponsors. Each living room receives 3 million, and then there's an extra supply in the Western Institute and North Eastern Natural Institutes. They receive 10.7 million. This will strengthen them to fulfill their various roles, including their ministry. in research, counseling and monitoring, as well as strengthening the scattered areas, increasing job availability, and strengthening solidity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u32	President. Here, 25 artists receive unfounded basics, the best of them. All we need is $340,000 more on this list, and that's when we're paying burgers. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u33	Mr. President. Here's a suggestion for 400 million colleges. K. in addition to that. It's a top priority. The colleges went through a lot of economy in the years before the collapse, so when the collapse broke down, it was not much fat to cut, but when we were getting out of the economic breakdown, high school played a very important role in supporting young jobseekers. They have cut down tools and tools and therefore need supplementary measures, but they also need supplementation to meet high challenges for training, a new technological revolution, and a withdrawal to be listed. I welcome the best plan. Governments for high education and hope that it will start in the hours of work, but it can't be found here, so here we have 400 million just to improve bad status. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u34	Mr. President. It's under a few teams, including. The Research Centre, Rif, East Bridge, LungA, and the Deaf Communication Center This is all the work that we in the greater part have discussed about the need to clean up with the Ministry and to take some decent course so that those who apply repeatedly for years and decades may even receive financial contributions in some other process and a different route. It is not wise for such a believing figure to exist every year, even for a decade.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u35	A respectable president. This is a very simple change for the hospitals in the country, both the Land Hospital, and the Akureyri Hospital, for trust in their business, for the maintenance and development of moldy houses, as well as the purchase of tools and tools. We have no reason to doubt the reports we have received from the university regarding these amounts, so it is a very simple choice to press yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u36	A respectable president. According to a recent OECD report, Iceland is at the bottom of all European OECD countries when it comes to the relative funds for health care infrastructure. Iceland is, for example. Downstairs of Romania. Here's a suggestion to add another 3 billion to the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital. The governor pointed out that he needed some 2.7 billion just to stay gone. The Akureyri hospital needs 400 million, 50 million gets. Once again, I express my appreciation for our health - care campaign. This is where members of Congress have left greens, and other members of Parliament have the opportunity to fulfill their words only seven weeks ago, that there would be a significant injection in health matters. Here's your chance, Mr. President, to keep that word.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u37	A respectable president. I've been working within the medical system in Iceland for more and less than the last 25 to 30 years. During all that time, there has been a promise on the part of politicians that the health system would now be well treated. Now, however, an actual increase in health between years of age releases 8.5%. What a fine start this is, and it promises us that in recent years the present government will fulfill the promises made to the people of the land! Now the sun rises, and as soon as we bring the nation first down on better health systems, let's celebrate it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u38	V.E.G. President. I'm glad there's a proposal here about 30 million. K. temporary financial permission to make the need for a diagnostic on the basis of a parade at the Akureyri Hospital. There is a great need for action and urgency, as well as a temporary contribution of 50 million to the development of special walking services. I hope that this is a promise of what should come because the promotion of the Akureyri Hospital is really urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u39	A respectable president. Here is a suggestion to place an additional 500 million people in medical institutions in the country. The representatives of these clinics came to a financial committee and voiced that they needed more money to do this, that they needed 1 billion. A greater part of the budget decides to propose an additional 400 million, and here we offer a proposal for another 500 million missing. We are not yet ready for the injection. We're not even close to the big offense. Of course, even if we agree to this proposal of 500 million people, the government's funds will not go aside. That is why I seem to be extremely disappointed in the decision given here, for once again we see that the left - left - green control are anything but green - in - control positions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u40	The president thinks this is relatively beautiful red and green. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u41	Mr. President. This was shown at a meeting of the budget committee when health - care directors in the country called on the committee to find that there was a great need for instruments to buy. The increase reported by the government is not enough, so the Central Party suggests that there will be further improvements in instruments in the country. It saves in the long run, then it doesn't have to send patients south. We received reports of important devices, such as X - ray devices and other types of vehicles that were broken and that were over 20 years of age. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u42	Mr. President. Once again, I come up here and give the board a chance to keep my word. This time we propose an additional 400 million for health care. I think every member of this body has spoken about the value and importance of health care as the first stop of a patient in the medical system. Health care centers have long complained that they lack money to care for the services we decide they need to perform. That's why we in the United States want to meet these moderate wishes of only 400 million to put in the key repairs of health care. Since health care is only given a 3% rise after the entrance of the left - green government, it is once again disappointing, and it is to be mourned.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u43	A respectable president. Here we propose an additional 3 billion to a group of microbubbles. There are 19,000 poor people in Iceland. This is a group that has been neglected for far too long by so many governments. Once again, we want to give the Constitutions and all the councils the opportunity to improve the interests of these people, who for some reason cannot work and are under a blow so many economics. We have a moral and political obligation to have a powerful welfare system that handles the problems of these people. We are the 11th richest country in the world, and it is a disgrace to what we are doing in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u44	Mr. President. There is a precipitating 4.7% increase in social security benefits for disability, and, in fact, the elderly, are unsatisfactory. It aims at the index value of consumer prices to form rather than a remuneration number and is thus associated with the general labour development in the country. In addition, it is in opposition to the law on social security with regard to the criteria to be proposed. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u45	A respectable president. In order to prevent misunderstandings in this regard, this contribution is for the promotion of microenergy pension so that it reduces the decline due to revenue through the implementation of specific contributions to the microenergy pension. It's the job fair. Because there weren't 3 billion approved earlier, the people might agree to 1.7. No, it doesn't look like it. You can try next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u46	V.E.G. President. This is a two - fold adjustment that matters to both immensely. On the one hand, money is added to a poor family, which is of utmost importance because it reduces the value of what has been called a dollar to one's degree and is therefore of great importance. However, more donations are also provided for the user - controlled personal assistance and, of particular, the amount of funds to go to those who need a daily treatment for mechanical ventilation. It is not a large group, but it is of utmost importance for those who need this service. We've been talking about this for quite a while. Now they're marking money for it. I prefer to vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u47	Mr. President. This point represents the cost of the $1.4 billion Kingdom treasure. This is not true if it is set up like this, but it costs much less money. This, however, gives elderly ones who have the will and power to win to do so without the fact that politicians are giving them what they can pay without becoming impaired. I trust this proposal will be accepted. I encourage a roll call, for I want the people to know who are who are really wanting the elderly to have the opportunity to improve their life, to earn themselves and their society for good, to break or prevent their social isolation, and to work toward becoming healthy beyond the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u48	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I strongly encourage senators to vote with the motion change. This is part of a continued conversation and though the adjustment may be made - I actually assume, unfortunately - this issue will continue to be discussed. I think it'll be discussed until it's accepted. This is a good idea. We're supposed to do this. We have no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u49	Mr. President. I'll make it right. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned before I did. What we've calculated, these are suggestions also offered by the Pirantars. It's about the fact that older citizens don't get a break if they go out and win. The revenues that come in place because they work, pay taxes, spend more between their hands, then back there, pay up to a great extent, if not everything. That, on its own, should be a closer look. Am I right? Is there anyone who can nod the government? Has the government studied these things? V.E.G. Secretary of welfare? No, no one has studied it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is something we should introduce ourselves to. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, this is going to happen, just try to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to let myself say the same thing. Councilmen who have dealt with the estimated cost of delinquency for employment. The cost of such action on the part of the government seems unconvinced. However, there is a well - founded, well - founded, well - thought - out expert who was employed by an older citizen in the city of Reykjavík and the area. The expert, Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, concluded that such an act of delinquency would not cost a trust fund, perhaps even giving him additional income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u51	A respectable president. The person who spoke here first on this vote directed a committee of the previous year, which gave them the proposal that there would be no vacation markets, not on pensions, not on employment income, or other incomes. But right now, they feel that commercial income should be raised, and the government has decided to fight for it. We agreed tonight that the payoff target for employment would be 100,000 dollars. In a month, people come here and say, "No holidays on a job, just free to have any salary. Then the question remains: Why on earth are we to use the social security system, the reform system, which is thought primarily to those whose foot is in the community to support those with a fine income? All right, if men had contributed $200,000, 300,000 bucks. But, no, just no stamp marks. 700,000 bucks. The man should be on welfare from the state. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u52	Mr. President. I strongly support this suggestion, especially since it is both a motion of justice and a practical one. It's practical for society. I've been aware of that, even the highest. The secretary of finance seems to be completely mistaken or not aware of the consequences if this proposal is to be accepted. V.E.G. The minister does not seem to realize that the vast majority, almost everyone, perhaps all, of those with high income and age, as they say, are affected by pension because in almost all cases they have accumulated the vast amount of life that he alone cares for the damage. [[Up front.]] These people don't change their wages. This is primarily to meet those who can make good use of their skills, perhaps need it because they have not been gathered as much pension savings as the high - paying people. In all respects, this is a reasonable proposal and a practical suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u53	A respectable president. A group of people have provided a bill to legalize precisely the violation of the payoffs of older citizens. I reiterate the report by Dr. Haukur's Arnþórsson Arnethor and simply say, "Why in the world shouldn't we put it to the test? " That's exactly what's been reported before, but here it's only talking about the loss of employment income. I don't know better than that there is a full decline in all other incomes, and that's exactly the highest paid from this group of people who come to be impaired because of their income, income, or so on. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget: Think of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u54	Mr. President. I think, for the first time, the cost plan for these changes is substantially overscheduled to change, since the project is expected to be 1,400 billion. K. a donation due to an increase in holiday limits to 100,000 dollars. According to what I know, it's about that. One billion more to completely eliminate the prenuptial limits. I think this is where we're looking at a little bigger numbers in the transition, than it really takes. In addition, I agree with the views that have already been pointed out at the vote, that is reason to believe that this will greatly increase the interest of the elderly and will, as a result, bring in more money to the state. Then I'll say something. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson Gunollson's winners, of course, are making the largest money in society that the sufferer's pension earns less money from social security rather than professional gains. [[Up front.]] I don't think we have to worry about any high-priority people getting big-time benefits from social security on account of this. This comes primarily to the most rewarding income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u55	A respectable president. It seems to me that this vote is going one way. The board is not going to accept the proposal. As a matter of fact, I don't think there's any need for money in this. The proposal is more than money. When we put out our bill that comes out later, we'll go down to the bottom of it. I hope the board is working with us because if it's money for the money, but not the expenses, the evidence has to convince them. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u56	Mr. President. For the very best of words. Secretary of finance I'd like to say that Winston Churchill once said that only the fools will not change their mind, but the prudent will if they have more argument than they've had in the past. So I've changed my mind on this matter. Looking at the votes of the senators' Left Green and the Independence Party here, I think of the following from Pislar History: From that day on, Heródes and Pílatus were friends. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u57	A respectable president. The government originally made the decision to raise pay and to improve social security to the older citizens to 300,000 as soon as the first budget and loans went to 100,000. That's what we've been through. We will continue this course. This proposal is a virtual proposal. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u58	A respectable president. We get that by saying that it costs either 2.4 billion, 1 billion, or it will actually give the State money. However, no matter what the case may seem to be the case, it is that this is the case with those who have only been able to improve in general, i.e. People who are in pensions but who can win. And then I ask, what about the people who can't win? What about the fact that, according to this suggestion, we would start paying from social security compensations to those who have made $300,000 a month, and we accept the cost of billions, as suggested by the proposal, but will do nothing for those who cannot work and are left behind with a much lower order of living? This is simply unfair. To argue here that, in any case, those with a high salary will likely have gathered up the pension rights, which will then impair the right to reform, there is nothing more than to say here: The suggestion is unnecessary. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u59	A respectable president. It is a very special goal to encourage people to work for as long as they have both interest and ability. I have listened to the reasoning of those who have made this suggestion, and I must admit that I find it somewhat strange. We know, a respectable president, and it's great, that now people who are fortunately able to work longer than they have done before. That's good news, and it's just gonna get bigger. So, then, do people want to set priorities for those who can work long at high wages? Is this the will of those who make this suggestion? There will be nothing else about the reasoning presented here. We always have limited money. Is that where we want to put the money? I say no. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u60	Mr. President. Here's another attempt to increase the government's expenses for welfare matters. This time we propose that 1.5 billion go to the business of older citizens. The older citizens' union came to a financial committee and, like all the other stakeholders we met, declared that they were beyond the greatest dissatisfaction with this bill. It has been suggested that some 40% of the senior citizens in Iceland live under the alimony. There are about 42,000 seniors in this country, so it's not a small group. Old age in Iceland is not meant to endure uncertainty, insecurity, and economic anxiety. Again, we call out that the government groups fulfill the promises made to this group many times over and over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u61	Mr. President. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir suggests the exact equivalent of a dollar and was proposed on a budget bill recommended here in September and carried out by a government that recently fell, exactly the same number. The management part suggests a damage rate of 242,000. per month. Over the last four years, 12,000 families have fallen from the child - welfare system. We want to improve the system because it's a powerful unit of revenue we're supposed to use to counteract the inequities and improve the status of the children. We suggest another 3,000 million. It is a scandal, to say the least, that the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir assumes and suggests that child damage will go far below the minimum. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u62	President. We're voting for housing support. As everybody knows, there's a little problem out here on the market. We're planning 12 billion new houses for rent, and unfortunately, it's far from enough, that's the situation. The situation in the analysis of the registry is that it lacks between 5,000 and 11,000 apartments. The median means we have to build Akureyri now, that's the shortage. The worst projection is that it needs to build a whole Hafnarfjörður now, just to meet the want. That is the fact that we live today, so we need to take this problem seriously now and help solve the problem that is evident on a daily basis. People live in campsites, really, people. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u63	Mr. President. This is the last time I'm gonna be in this piece of music today. The motion must be divided into two parts, making up for housing support. Here we suggest an additional 2 billion are being added to growth improvements and 2 billion additional to general apartments. We see that the growth reform system has been allowed to decay. Half of everyone who enjoyed interest when the Union was last in the government is out of that system. Here it must be rebuilt in one way or another. Likewise, we need to put more money into the stock money. We see that the problem of housing, especially in the capital area, is one of the greatest solutions by the government. Between the budget bill left green and the bill that the remainder of the government is playing out there is no change. There is no change after the entrance of the left green in the government when it comes to the development or development of an apartment in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u64	Mr. President. The bill asks the council's warrant to sell the country of the State to the Felds, on the Keldnahols, and at the Wolfshei. The surrounding region has been in the discussion as a suitable area for the location of a new land hospital. The proposal assumes that the warrant will fall out and is of this recommendation to conclude that there is no other way than a targeted attempt to prevent the rise of a new U.S. land. The governments seem to be united in that matter. One of the board of directors, the forward party, emphasized the idea that a new Landspike would be built in a new place. The party seems to have fallen away from this campaign code as soon as he sat down in the government. That's sad. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u65	Mr. President. In the important matter of hospital affairs, the government seems to have a very decisive failure. It even reveals itself. in their plans or interest not only to sell the Netherlands but, apparently, all the places mentioned as a possible location for a new hospital. I'm not at the top of it. It's supposed to be a long time ago that the then minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, and therefore the government, and then the government, the government, the Hellenistic region, was out of control. I've mentioned it at the highest. President's need to be examined, for the council cannot tolerate a minister's lack of authority and sell as important as it is. Here we see that the spirit of transgression or confusion is determined that people will continue on the same path and, in fact, ask for permission this time. [[The president calls.]] I encourage Congress to reject this - i.e. For the land shall be sold. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-22-9.u66	Before I close a meeting, I'd like to use this opportunity to present to all the members of the council and to our staff and to the people of the land the best wishes for a merry and peaceful Christmas. Meetings are gonna be like what we're talking about. Since members of the council are aware, between Christmas and New Year, our separation will not be long. Then there are budgets and a number of other issues that will need full consideration before the New Year's Eve. Committee meetings will be held at the third Christmas meeting, i.e. On Wednesday, December 27, and again a meeting begins on Thursday, December 28. I repeat my Christmas greetings to what? Senators and thank you for the cooperation of busy days. Those who have come a long way home, I wish we could all meet together right after this brief Christmas break.
