ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u1	Borist has written a letter from the chairman of the House of Parliament to Jón Valdimarsson, 13th. We're out of here. "I can't attend next week. So there is a request that Ásbjörn Óskarsson Wjarnarsson be seated in the General Assembly today, a fourth substitute on the U.S. Presidency List. 1st and 3th Specialist on a list of the districts has proclaimed ahead of time, while 2 a deputy on a list takes a seat for another member of Congress. At the request of the President, the national government has assembled and issued a ballot for Ómar Ásbjörn Óskarsson's son. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u2	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A board of directors and patrols has come together to review Ásbjörn Óskarsson's Quantum. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u4	Two letters have been received from the chairman of the House of Parliament for the 4th. We're out of Suðvest. "The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, and 9th of them. SK., Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir, can't attend next week. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as a guardian for the 2nd in the Summit of the Southwestern Precinct, Bjarni Halldór Janusson, and 1st Presidency of the Southern Revolution, Jóhannes A. Kristbjörnsson. 1 strategist on a Southwestern national list has announced pasturage. The letter of Bjarni Halldór, the Óskarsson of Ásbjörn, Jóhannes A..
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u5	Bjarni Halldór Janusson, Jóhannes A. Kristbjörnsson, and Óskarsson Ásbjörbjörðursson have signed their word to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u6	Borist has a letter from the 10th. We're out of Suðvest. " Thorhldildi Ævarsdóttir Avvarsdóttir, and 5th. South, Vilhjálmur Árnason, says that they will be unable to attend a meeting in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly for the 1st Presidency of Pirata in the Southwestern District, Kristín Þór Sturluson, and Traustadóttir. In the past, Andri Þór Sturluson and Kristín Traustadóttir are invited to serve again at the General Assembly. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the House of Congress on the left movement of a green bid for Katrín Jakobsdóttir, 2th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, then, at Council II, a deputy of the left movement takes up an offer of green in the district, Orri Jóhannsson. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. Orri Páll Jóhannsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u7	There have been four letters received from the Environment and Resource Ministry, where you request an invitation to provide a written answer for the requested request. 390 for a multi-mail, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, a request for a spell. 405, about oil search and processing in the Dragon Zone, from Hildur Knútsdóttir, a petition on the icicle. 463 about salmon farms, from Björn Valur Gíslason and Bjarni Jónsson, and for a question on deck. 466, Bjarni Jónsson's salmon. There have been four letters from the Department of Internal Affairs requesting deadlines to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 468, about the office and management costs of the Spalar et s.f., from Bjarni Jónsson, requested. 464, on a security issue in the Havenh tunnel and on them, from Bjarna Jonsson, a petition for cover. 469, for credit on road expenses in the Havenan tunnel, from Bjarni Jónsson, and for the icicle. Forty-eight, about the Halfground tunnel and the highway through the Hagland, from Bjarna Jonsson. Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 320, of homes' debt and real estate prices, from Björn Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs requesting deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 448, on the charge of currency tenders and pensions, from Björn Valur Gíslason's son. Borist has a letter from the Department of Employment where request is made in order to provide a written answer to a request for this application. 436, about the activities of a Merit Research Institute, from Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u8	A respectable president. The point that is about to begin here, inaccessible time, inquiring for Ministers, is, of course, intended to get clear answers from counsellors, both to support matters and to explain the position of the council. So on March 23 it's surprising that it is. received the highest. A health secretary four questions about the operation of the clinical community, which he answered all in such a way that at least all of the Senate understood the answers so that there would be no change in the arrangement that was today and that there would be no such activity, five days confidentiality. V.E.G. A minister said: "It's not in the water, so I know, without having some big opinion on how policy should be in that area. I have to say exactly as I'm saying. A minister did not tell us enough. He has now shown up in the media and said that it is not in his power. [[The president calls.]] Why did he not use some of his answers to inform the council of what the situation was instead of leading us astray? There was once a musical senator, often wearing yellow clothes, who spoke a lot of honesty in politics, cooperation, cooperation, and my willingness. Where is he now?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u9	The president would like to state that there seems to be some malfunction in the clock showing time here in a puzzle, so the president will hit a bell at the right time and make sure that you stay within time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u10	President. I'd like to agree with the words that have been presented here, as well as a reminder to the highest. A minister was now in a death squad, so the love of music often aroused a spirit of joy, wonder, and anguish. On the other hand, it has been a characteristic of the words that have come from the highest source. The health minister is that they are always hairy, always in the highest order. It seems that a minister cannot give conclusive answers to very urgent matters. This is one of the issues he has actually misled the council in and in the community. I think it's very serious. I hope so. Senators of the British Future come here and explain exactly how this matter is discussed in their council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u11	A respectable president. I want to do the same. It is a very serious matter. The minister of health is persistent here on March 23, and it can be said that it was not until the fourth attempt to get out of the minister something that approached the answer in the absence of a private hospital in Iceland. In fact, during these days, surgeon surgeons are being moved to make a statement on the case of the Minister's case. I think a very serious, respectable president, to the highest degree. Health minister Óttarr Proppé simply tried to mislead this discussion, both within and outside the council. As far as I can see, the situation is right now, he's running away from the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u12	A respectable president. I'll have to agree with them anyway. Vocabulary speakers who are in silence at the completion of the President's conference board on the Supreme Court's position. Health Minister and his answers to four questions that we four ask. Some weeks ago, diplomats served. It is fundamental in the state of Congress that we receive the proper and clear answers from the Supreme Court. When we ask, we advise. It seems to occur repeatedly at the highest level. Ministers don't have clear answers. Then you need to ask: What would be the point of the General if we could not get a clear answer? Does no mean no, or does it mean no? I don't even know if it's the highest. A health minister knows what no means when you stand up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u13	Madam President. V.E.G. A health minister is a well - thought - out man, but rather slow to answer. His answers are hairy. Maybe he speaks two tongues. He's not in an easy position. The person standing here was one who tried to make clear answers on March 23, which is what happened today. The discussion was then about one kind of action, a transitional operation, but it is clear that the Annual Business and Trade Environment is a biological hospital. There are a number of activities that are still in full force, as if none were tomorrow, and the account sent an open Irish health insurance system, apparently, while public health agencies are cut down at Trog.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u14	A respectable president. I thanked the highest. A health minister following the talks on March 23, especially for the clear answers he gave in the talks he gave that answer to questions. Senators. That includes, by permission of the president, I say that I will not represent a special private operation or privatization of the health system without such a wonderful discussion or preparation. Now you have to stop and consider the matter when a surgeon corrects the misunderstanding that we have received. It's hard for me to say thank you. A minister for clear speech, clear answers when they fail to prove true.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u15	V.E.G. President. I'm not up here to defend the health minister and his lack of answers. All I can say for him is, there's only certain laws in this country. This is not a matter of health care or policy. Anyone can open a Chinese special service that meets the conditions of the law. [[The point is, do you disagree with a surgeon?]] I'm just saying the law speaks for itself. Of course, it may be a question of whether this is a hospital. There may be a legal issue as to whether this is a hospital service or a specialist medical service. If they are required to run hospital services, a minister should grant permission to do so. It's the Ministry's legal investigation, that it's just a special medical service. Then, of course, anyone can fire it. It's not a matter of opinion or politics of the Minister. If people disagree with this, they just try to change the law. [[Up front.]] Here's the place for that. [[For example, what is the minister's opinion?]] It doesn't matter. The law is in effect. The minister is an official, and he abides by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u16	A respectable president. Something I think is a world of mind. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son is simpler than reality. There's a legal disagreement on this matter. A surgeon wants it to be defined in a certain way. If applied, the highest will be required. Minister to issue a work permit. It's not that simple, huh? paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I just don't think it's a good idea. There should not be a minister here to answer. This is a huge deal. I am one of the senators who tried to make clear answers in his day, March 23, 2000. I asked the highest. Minister particularly to see if the operation was extended within the current contract but did not get any answers. I also think it's very serious how it works. It seems that a minister or a Ministry is talking to a surgeon. A surgeon's statement, by permission of a president, states: The Ministry's question was that the discussion was merely focused on whether the Bible would be consulted for participation in a so - called waiting list campaign. [[The president calls.]] This is simply wrong. The talk on March 23 was not merely about this blessed wait list of events. I myself did not turn aside from those lists. There's a surgeon here who's being told wrong. That's pretty serious. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u17	V.E.G. President. So on March 26, last March, the General's symposium asked if it would be granted that the clinical function would begin, and on March 23, some asked. U.S. Marshals. Whether this permission had been granted, the health minister repeated. It is safe to say that answers are the best. A health minister was very hairy. At the same time, I feel very serious when a surgeon has to step up and express himself in a way that he had to do in the weekend news. I'll be right back. A senator with a seat in his head. The welfare committee wants the committee to meet and arrange for visitors to meet for this matter and to give us clear answers about what is going on here. It's time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u18	Madam President. That's exactly what I was going to say. I feel that the disagreement is too much about the statement made by the surgeon in his letter, so that the matter is not addressed here within the council, i.e. Whether it is the office to confirm that professional minimum requirements are met and then the Minister to grant leave to a special health care professional when such confirmation is available or whether it is as a minister interprets, that it is the land surgeon's license to grant the license. It is suggested that the surgeon gave permission in January. A well-being committee will have to ask people to meet them. This matter must be settled once and for all. We can't have laws in the country that are such that a minister and official who is supposed to handle these things for us, i.e. The people of the country, interprets the law in the same way as they do. [[The president calls.]] It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u19	President. ▪ Minding. It takes courage to listen to your heart, to follow your convictions, to preach a vision, to trust in people, to listen to evidence and information, to stand on your feet, to shoulder responsibility. [...] Responsible. All of this begins with us, with responsibility for ourselves and the way we think, speak, and listen. We are responsible for the benefits and shortcomings of all cases. We do not fear difficult decisions for the sake of public interest and a bright future. This is from a declaration from a bright future. It is also about trust and other things. In view of this, I would like to ask, in any way, how is the request to get the director of the Land Hospital to install a welfare committee to review a financial program was rejected this morning?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u20	Madam President. Now all the spears are standing on the rock master Secretary Óttar Proppér. He must come here south; I listened to him Never I went south, and he was nice there, but the highest. A minister should see his respect for the Council and be here and answer the reasons why the matter has come so far that he has refused to grant permission to a private hospital in the Year's Hospital, where there is a five - day admission and standard hospital service. [["Presidents."]] On the day, a surgeon would like to know that it is clear where the permit is. Where's the permit team? This is creating a double health system where funding from the government box flows unregulated into the private sector. [[The president calls.]] We need medical funding, and we insist on it. He's a health minister. He's gonna come down here and explain these matters and assume responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u21	A respectable president. It's bad to be caught by a fool. This was the last words of my virgin discourse here at a council in December; in fact, it was all but private health care. I am the one who rode on the line here on March 23, when the issues of the clinical community were discussed and started my speaking in a fine conversation I had with the highest court. The minister of Óttarr Proppér in December when he was still a member of the United States, we were discussing the budget. He could not help but confirm that he agreed with himself, i.e. On March 23, he agreed with what had said on December 22, that further personal business would not be done. His case was clear and there I got confirmation. Now it seems to me, and it hurts to experience it, I knew very well that the man was in a band called HAM, but that he could change it so easily, I'm afraid I'm surprised. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u22	Madam President. We senators cannot accept that a minister will answer our questions with some vague talk. It's unacceptable. The evidence now shows that private service is in full effect here, and there are differences in interpretation of the law. In case of highest interpretation. Minister is correct, but here is just an open deposit from the state funds for private health care. This is because the contracts are for example. with increasing intensity there, while leaning on the public system at the time of these contracts. Who is it, Madam President, who is in charge of health policy here? Who is it? It's the servants themselves who want to sell their services to the state. [[The president calls.]] They define the needs and get the contract paid from the state fund. [[The president calls.]] It's not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u23	V.E.G. President. There's a little special discussion as a matter of course. Councilmen have set up here on a suspected absence of absence at the highest level. Secretary of health here today. Today, the health minister has a speech scheduled for tomorrow and will be here on Wednesday. Hence, it might have been enough for one or two members of the Parliament to comment that he was not here today, but there is no need for ten of them. It does, however, seem to be the ultimate. Of course, a health minister has responsibilities outside these halls. [[Up front.]] For example, today is the annual meeting of the Land Hospital, which is probably the largest agency under which he lives, and I plan to go to the highest level. Minister be there now. So there should be no need for that. The council members of the U.S. stand to arrive at approximately ten, twelve more, and complain of his absence at this moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u24	A respectable president. I'm not complaining about an outside health minister. I'm complaining about what he said. The Minister of Health says it is the surgeon of the land to permit the clinical condition. According to the law of the surgeon, since it was adopted, a minister's permission is needed in the case of a health care professional. The surgeon general has confirmed that the clinical situation meets the minimum standard for specific hospital service and as follows: The surgeon general has confirmed that any proposed operation on the clinical community meets the professional minimum standards of the surgeon's office. The surgeon general does not grant permission for health care management. That's where the words contradict the highest. Health Minister and surgeon's office. That's what this controversy is about. The words of the health secretary do not seem to resist.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u25	A respectable president. This was particularly discussed when this government was established that health matters would be first of all. They would be the focus of the task list of this new government. The day is coming when the five - year budget of the financial and financial expenditures of the United States cannot be listened to Land Hospital at a meeting of the welfare committee. Health Secretary's lawsuit is misleading and vague. Emphasis regarding the division of public service and private services are blurred, how health matters are handled in a financial programme by masking a lack of construction operations through buildings. It is all the same well that it is really a nonsense thing to say that this government stresses health because it does not. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u26	A respectable president. I think it's very serious what's been said, that I've been asked for a member of the Land Hospital to come to the welfare committee to discuss the budget, but that it was not more interested in their coming. Then it is announced by a member of the Parliament that the minister believes that there is a reason for a discussion with the Land Hospital. It would be fine if both the minister and the representative of the Hospital met with the welfare committee and covered the money to be placed in the public health service. This may also be a reason to obtain a representative of the health care of the capital area. I also find it very strange to hear from what I hear. paritaprevir Brynjar's armored Níelsson that it seems to him that the discussion of private hospitals, not just now, but in recent years, was simply based on misunderstandings. [[The president calls.]] It's just that it's always been all right and there's no reason to discuss it. It is a new interpretation that is now unknown to former ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u27	A respectable president. Just to sharpen things for those non-contracted members of this morning and not clear what came out there, I was following the instructions given to me and will seek answers at a meeting of members of the House to see if I can invite more people to the Committee. On the welfare committee, we may have gained the weight, the weight, the weight, and I didn't quite know where to start with the visitors. In other words, I've already contacted a secretary, and the representatives of the National Hospital will be here Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u28	V.E.G. President. I want to tell you what. paritaprevir The Eygló of Harðardóttir's saying that there's no new law to follow. Of course, there is no law against discussing the matter, but people in general cannot expect the minister to have just some opinion and ways other than the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u29	So you're saying that other ministers didn't obey the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u30	No, I'm not saying that, I'm just saying that -- No, no, I'm just saying that men must... [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Up front.]] True, I have often considered Ministers not to obey the law, but this does not change that the decision of a minister is final in the administration phase. His legal decision on this would apply until her confusion, then just by trial. That's the way it is. I can disagree with the minister, but the minister is an official, and he has a legal obligation. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about, not what he's interested in and what his viewpoint is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u31	Madam President. I think it's important that, as it turns out, it's important. The head of the welfare committee requested that the National Hospital come to the welfare committee to discuss a national budget. However, it is quite surprising that on the other hand, a committee has to be called rigid because it was not expected at the original job on the matter of Congress, and on the other hand, it would be necessary to address these issues with regard to a meeting board of presidents. To be sure, this is an important matter, although it is good if we come to a good conclusion eventually. This must make all of us think about what the real status of the public welfare system in Iceland is when they have to somehow try to interpret words of the highest degree. Minister. He cannot give clear answers, and he needs to be called for the National Hospital to come to committees to discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] This tells us something about our position.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u32	Madam President. I think there's a lot of respect in the head. The members of the Independence Party are here to defend the highest order. Secretary of health. But I miss the future doing so by the Speaker of the United States Council. However, in this discussion, I want to point to a case that is now being developed at the turn. ...and has been early this year, a bill from the United States that goes on changing the articles we're fighting over here today. It is assumed that a minister should not negotiate with a health care assistant unless he is granted permission at the General and meet certain criteria. Also, pay cannot be paid from such an enterprise. We can run that case through the council. Then we will not have to argue about interpreting these articles, for it makes clear who is the one who sets the standards for health care. [[The president calls.]] It will be the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u33	A respectable president. Perhaps I should not be surprised at the arrogance expressed in words. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson and the way he spoke down to me by having to inform me of the way a minister should behave. It is true, however, that here is a new minister making a new interpretation of what it takes to start a business in a private hospital, an interpretation that we have not previously heard from a former health - care worker. We also comment that since the minister's answers in the platform are not in harmony with what he has done or has not done, his answers are not in harmony with what he has done. That's what we're saying about meeting management. This is big. This is not limited to health care laws, as interpretations include Yeah. þm. Empresseur Brynjar's son is just the case, but it seems that the budget is no longer valid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u34	Madam President. I can see myself being compelled to come back up because of the arrogance shown at the moment. paritaprevir Brynjar, son of Níelsson, about such a serious matter. I don't think any of us in this room expected that the legal environment we live in allowed us to start private hospitals with such a unit without giving the council or any discussion in society, in medical institutions, or at the appropriate level. I don't think any of us have thought that this is how the law was, and I don't think that's true. Therefore, I agree to what the surgeon general has called on regarding this permit, that when it comes to granting permission to direct capitals out of the public health system in a private health service, it is clear that there are some legal documents needed at some administrative level. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can't watch this, no matter what. Councilmen speak down to the rest of us in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u35	Madam President. It must be made very clear that there is continued privacy in the health system. There has been privatization in the health system, and the way that has been done is through the financial system. They're moving money from the hospitals, and it's being done today, from the hospitals, where safety can best be guaranteed, and bringing them to other parties out of town through Iceland's health insurance. This warned the surgeon before the election, and we discussed this in the campaign. This privatization is without quality control. The McKinsey report on the Land Hospital and the Health Department points this out. This government continues to take exactly the same course as after discussing with health care professionals in the country. There will continue to be a personal development without quality control in Iceland, at the government's command today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u36	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Social Affairs and Equal Affairs and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u37	A respectable president. As we have discussed, under the supervision of President, there is a burning policy of health care in Iceland. So that the surgeon was moved to issue a statement about action, or perhaps rather inaction, his boss, but in the statement, the surgeon will review the discussion of privateisation in Iceland's health care services, which he says is vague and points out that it is the role of the office to confirm whether minimum requirements are met but the Minister should grant leave leave leave to health care if there is any such confirmation. However, the minister says that it is the surgeon's license to grant the license, suggesting that it had been done in January by confirming that professional requirements were fulfilled in the seasons. If the minister's position resists the law, the respectable president, then two health systems are set up in Iceland: one for those who can pay directly from their own pockets and another system for those who enjoy a service that is paid or paid for by a government fund. To me it is absolutely clear that a medical institution needs to have a health minister's permission, it must be that way, so a minister has been interpreted so far, there is no way to escape it. So I ask, "Is the business legitimate in the opinion of the highest degree? " Secretary of finance when surgeons say they don't have permission? It's the highest. Ministers pleased with this trend? Was he even involved in creating this system in his own time as director of health insurance when the present foreign minister, Þór Þórðarson, was a health minister? What is the position of the minister to double the medical system? Is that what he wants? Does this seem to agree with the responsible provision of public funds that unlimited funds can flow from a government fund to a private sector involving even people and parties and businesses that profit from health problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u38	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying happy summer. It's nice to hear the refreshing spring winds that blow around this hall. Hv. A senator raises many questions, and I'll try to answer them as best I can. First of all, in 2008, when the health insurance law was passed, I did not sit at a council and share in making laws. I was then in charge of Iceland's Medical Insurance. The idea of health insurance is that there's a buyer in it; because we have both a buyer and a seller who's the same party, i.e. The state, is trying to create another person who is a buyer who is a health insurance buyer. The idea was, too, that certain standards would be set so that a certain amount would be paid for a certain task. I have to admit that I'm not for that town, in this debate between the surgeon and the health care department, to decide what's right in the matter. I know, however, that health insurance has paid a number of types of private doctors, specialized clinics, in part against patients. I don't know how many patients have been cured there. This has a short waiting list. I think it's positive for patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u39	A respectable president. My question is, what is the position of the Chairman of the Convention and the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs of the Government to a double medical system? Is that what he likes? Does he naturally feel that more wealthy people can have access to better health care? Does he naturally think that when community health institutions are truly subsidized, the state will pay money to purchase money from money companies? Counts the minister as financial and economic minister acceptable that the government has in fact doubled health systems to limit expenses for private health care because this is the reality of the highest understanding. The health minister of Óttar Proppér is correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u40	Madam President. As minister of finance, I have to worry about health expenses, and I would like to make the most of the money. I think we can agree that in this country there has been a long period of private health care operation. Much of it has been paid by public funds. I think it's good for patients that there are other people here who can cure them. I think it cut short a waiting list in the system that there are now some stations that can perform orthopaedic surgery and other such operations. I think it's good for patients. I think we have to look at it all the time, so we're supposed to put the patient first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u41	President. In 2006 the unemployment improvement period was reduced from five years to three, after which the lawgiver had made sure that unemployed was given an adjustment period so that there would not be a retrospective decline. This was not the case when the period was shortened from three to two and a half in 2014. VR ensued in the United States and won the case just over a year ago, in the province of Reykjavík, in the matter of VR against the Icelandic State, due to a change in the law on unemployment insurance that was due to the implementation of January 1, 2015. The conclusion is that the sentence agrees with the primary VR requirement that it be recognized that a decline in the right to pay unemployment by shortening the recovery period by six months according to law No. 125/2014. The court says that if a person is out of work and is paid unemployment, he will have to work on these payments and while enjoying them as long as he is able to rely on them in accordance with the rules that apply when his rights became active. He has legitimate expectations of being able to enjoy these penalties throughout the recovery period. Then the sentence also agrees with the VR evidence that the state could not provide any evidence to support any evidence that it was necessary to reduce the cost of employment insurance. According to the court, the issue had to be sanctified by rich necessities and grammatical grounds, but it cannot be seen to have been dedicated to something other than improving the contribution of a Kingdom fund. So I would like to ask, "What's the most argument in the world? " Ministers to ensure that there is a rich need for the ongoing deterioration of the rights of the unemployed, but the highest. Ministers have proclaimed a breakdown in the unemployment recovery period to two years from two and a half years?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u42	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. This is not merely a shortened improvement period but a significant change in the way unemployment will be controlled here for the future, which will be based on an equal labour insurance and a flexible improvement period that will take into account the job situation at a time. Today, we have the longest unemployment rates in all the North countries, and we will continue to do so even if we cut it down to 24 months. In the current job situation, where unemployment is measured approximately 3% is not a strong reason to have a very long improvement period. Of course, we will take into account judgments when it comes to the implementation of a shortened period of improvement, but it is, of course, also a concern when we have enough employment to remain in the absence of long - term work. About one fifth of today's unemployment workers, despite the need for adequate employment, have been unemployed for more than 12 months. We are aware of the serious consequences and are actually entering disability through unemployment benefits. It is very important to be able to intervene with effective measures sooner than to allow people to sit out of work and empty their rights for a long time in good conditions. - I think I need some water. Sorry about that. - This is the basic reason for these changes. We feel very important that the improvement period remains in place at any given time and can be extended when the job situation gets worse. There is no need to keep it that long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u43	President. Thanks for the answer. It says to the highest. Minister of Þorsteinn Víglundsson says that unemployed is being helped to reach the workforce. The minister also says, by permission of the president: ▪ At the same time, finding solutions for jobseekers will be emphasized. Regarding this, the government's financial programme states: ▪ The aim is to provide individualised employment services with people for job search until it has been a time when more advisers at the Labour Office need to be made available to help people who work as quickly as possible. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the following: How exactly is this extra help being done? Is assured that e.g. If you have not had a job for a while, will you be able to get work in your community? The minister may be aware that the cost of shortening the cut-off period will roll over to the rural areas and by having to apply for the assistance of the rural communities will be significantly less likely to have similar progress as it is evident that the rules for further support are much narrower than in the labour agency. [[The president calls.]] It is worth remembering that those who have lost their jobs won these rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u44	Madam President. I hope I can keep my voice in the second answer. It is clear that this is talking about taking advantage of the knowledge that...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u45	Then the president will return to the highest power. A minister may first say this, but he points out that water and a glass are equal in the pont.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u46	I'm sorry, I don't quite know what happened to my voice. She suddenly decided to leave me. Here, great knowledge of options has been built for unemployed people, improved efficiency. This built up a great deal of knowledge about the economic breakdown and the serious unemployment we had with them. This service has been built up and looked forward to individual service for this group. [[The president calls.]] There will, of course, be increased emphasis on this and higher ambitions. On the other hand, we believe that there is good reason to look forward, in parallel with a shorter period of improvement and increased efficiency, to set these rights in place with very good employment conditions at present. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u47	Madam President. The law's spirit on public finances is that the public is going on a new route, and it could provide long-term public benefit with careful policy development and planning, and following contributions, a general debate over policy development and its impacts, e.g. The management of schools, health care, pension payments, unemployment insurance, housing, child families, and responses to the people's aging, so I'll mention some major matters that the government budget for the next five years, now being developed in all committees of the council, is about or should be discussed. Money policy and plan affect the lives of all of us in Iceland. We have felt this in worse terms when governments have practiced bad economic management and bad practices. To protect the public from such framing, legal action was to become a special financial body that would put into practice the evaluation of financial policies and plans. Economic advice is primarily a professional guide that employs the most widely accepted methodology in economic science. Now financial adviser has published detailed and good reviews, in which both financial and financial programs of the government are severely criticized. It contains, for example, Saying plainly that the standard used to assess the maintenance of public financial finance is wrong and also that big issues, such as the growth of tourism, gang development, job market tensions, high prices of housing markets, and the aging of the people, require further analysis of stagemaking, and it is not enough to describe just that there is a problem but that solutions are needed. There are other things that are criticized in the direction of the Governing Body. I ask financial and economic secretary why has he decided to ignore the financial tips of the Council? I'm asking the highest, too. A minister whether he feels that ignoring counsel has some consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u48	Madam President. The financial adviser offered many helpful suggestions in his opinion. In fact, some of them came from the Ministry of finance, i.e. The Ministry is fully informed that there is still some lack of all the tools that would be desirable to bring up a long - term financial plan. I don't think it's right to talk about a financial minister ignoring tips he receives after he puts in the plan. It's very difficult to follow indications about something you do because they didn't happen until after you do. Of course, we could not take these tips into account this time. I will, however, put it into practice and have already begun to plan that the next time a financial plan will be submitted, which will probably be early in the next year, we will try to take into account the tips presented. One of the issues pointed out is a national interest model desirable for the Ministry of Economics to have access to, for example. taking into account various stage photos. I agree with the financial Council that it would be most desirable for the Ministry of finance to have such a model to control. We have already proposed that the Ministry be allowed access to such a model.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u49	Madam President. For the next five years, we have set up financial policy, which included comments on a financial body that were ignored. They may come back to some in the advice of the Governing Body on the budget, and it is a question of whether to ignore it too, since there is a difference between discussions. You are sure to hope that this will be done because when the law was passed on the financial Council, it was expected that it would contribute to the increase in public financial discipline and in favorable times. However, in order to do so, you must follow the advice given. The financial Council is critical, including those in the United States. to lower the general value of taxation during the programme time. I'm asking the highest. Ministers whether the criticism is not valid and whether it is not correct that history has shown that the reduction in filing times has adverse consequences for the public. [[The president calls.]] I quote the story here, if the professional arguments of financial advice don't work for the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u50	Madam President. Again, I must say that I agree that, of course, professional arguments need to be listened to. There are outstanding people who have great knowledge of the government's finances and economics in general. Of course, we should also learn a lesson from the story. Now there's a financial program in the council, and I know it will be discussed by members of Congress. There, of course, people will point out and agree with many of the things said by the Council of finance, for I will be the first to admit that we are no further involved in this process than would be very desirable for us to have more tools and tools to make this plan better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u51	A respectable president. In the case of the financial and economic minister of his Facebook site, it is stated that the government is working with local communities to increase the provision of housing. It was also noted that the park town is organizing 1,200,1,500 inhabitants, telling the minister that it is a good thing and that he wants to keep the apartment prices down. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to three, but the premises are all up to him. First of all: Can the government continue to increase supply to rural society at a favorable price to keep apartment prices low? Second, if so, with which communities are governments working? Is it really possible that Reykjavíkurburg could purchase Köldnahol at a price similar to that of the Netherlands if there's any interest in it? Third, the sale of the Vifil State, as assessed by financial and economic ministers, seems to be at a favorable price; the minister assumes that the benefits will be returned to those who buy real estate in this area. So I ask the secretary of the housing if he knows that the local people were put on the farm society so that this favorable purchase will be returned to the local population.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u52	Madam President. I'm going to hope that voice lasts this. I thank the senator for this inquiry, even though I wondered if she should have even gone to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. But that's different. Asked: Is it really possible that the State will continue to sell property at a favorable price? In fact, the magnitude of this bargain has not been determined. Of course, when the State has been organized and built, it is arranged to share in the prospects of land's property. The wealth will probably make some of that considerable money. Whether this arrangement will become a model for further sales of property or property is out of the question. However, it is quite clear that the state can come in to relieve the great lack of real estate today by laying on land owned by government funds in the capital area, land that is easy to organize and tightly populated around. I don't think it's very important, but we know that high prices promote high construction costs and increase supply of weights at a favorable price may be important to maintain construction costs and property prices. So I think it is urgent that the government removes the assets it can for this purpose, even though the State should always be careful to take advantage of the government's financial resources in order to make use of debt subsidies. To answer that inquiry, it is quite clear that I expect there to be one of the proposals we will suggest, that there will continue to be a work to free the property of state funds in those communities where it is possible and that, of course, is most appropriate here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. They show black people that there is not much policy involved in this trade on earth at VCs. The reason why I'm saying I'm at a good price is because I'm just quoting a topbook. Financial and economic ministers. I'm not evaluating that kind of thing myself. It is extremely important that policy is involved in such a major case. This focuses on market expectations and rural planning and homes. I ask for more answers, and I also insist. Ministers that he has planned this and has and can give the council clear answers on this important matter party. I might also ask, " Was he in a hurry when he was changing his job title in his day and taking out the promise of a housing minister, letting go of it in his job title? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u54	Yes, Madam President. I can totally agree with that. For a long time, a senator has been lacking in government policies. The places we see in the house - to - house market today were invited ahead of us. It could be predicted by about 25 years'notice. It is not surprising that the biggest years are entering a housing market. Sadly, we were totally unprepared to accept them. They look first to the responsibility of a member of that community, but that is, of course, why we are agreeing with our rural society and developing a series of long - term policies to address the present shortage, but also to prevent it from reproducing by the fact that there is sufficient foreview at any given time, four to five years in advance. [[Up front.]] Of course, there is an enormous amount of provision for this market. Let's hope we manage to get a good hold of it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u55	A respectable president. A financial secretary tells members of the community to take into account the tip of a financial Council in the development of the next plan set up early in 2018. The financial agenda has been discussed, stating that basic policies are not a guarantee of a base - priced plan. Governments did not have enough access to financial policies and then leave a secretary of finance to identify how plans and activities cohesion at baseline. This will go against baseline transparency. It was said: The manner in which financial policy was applied was not very convincing. The problem, however, is deeper. There is nothing in the budget that tells us why right over 30 billion in high school financed the work to be done. There is no information on what it would mean for high school projects if the amount was 31 billion or 29 billion. Criticism of the lack of transparency is more serious, but it appears at first glance. Conspiracy is of utmost importance to the Agency's surveillance by means of budgeting. If members of the Parliament do not have information on what is more or less money at the task level of the media, then the Parliament's approval of this council arrangement is blindly accepted. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance says that there will be no consideration for financial tips until the next financial programme is a minister of finance to say that the Council is to guess what the figures in the plan are. So the question is, What's going to happen? The secretary of finance to ensure that support for the funding given to each subject is presented as a document approved by the Council or rejected by the Council? How's the top? Minister to ensure transparency so that the Council can supervise its role?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is certainly interesting to consider that, not just the financial programme as a whole, but its individual parts, the topic areas. It sounds like a reason. A senator is extending a little financial tip on stage films so that not only are staged for the overall economy but also for each topic field. I can say with what. A senator said that it would certainly be interesting to wonder about it. I think it'd be something new in the budget. I don't think that budgets are usually set up for each case with a certain amount of money and would say what another 10, 100, or 1,000 million would do. Certainly, it would be interesting to see some of the major factors involved. Thank you. A senator for the tip. I feel that this is actually taking a step beyond financial advice when it points out that we should have put on stage pictures. I've said it's certainly desirable, but we just haven't had the tools to put up those photos yet. This would take even more work, but I am not saying that this work would be unwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u57	A respectable president. One of the reasons we are taking up the public financial law is to put the financial debate more into the budget earlier this year. The budget is to be the foundation of the budget itself, and it should not surprise us especially when the exchange of funds appears. We should expect that there will be more or less involvement in various issues under the topic areas, which are not done in the current financial program. If we are not prepared for this, if we do not know what to expect in financial matters, we need to resume the discussion, and then we are talking about the same subject twice. That's what I'm pointing out, we need to know what assignments in general we're looking at, this is not grouped down on individual projects, what major projects are going to be done, what to do, what to do, and what projects are not included in the list so that we would know what to do if we added the extra money in the language field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u58	Madam President. That's why. A senator says that we could have a set of priorities, first of the government, and then the Generals, when things were handled, which said that what was last on the list would cost so much and the next subject, could be a new road or a new school, cost so much. I agree with that. I thought it would be interesting, and I think it would be useful for the senators to have extensive information. I think in these matters, like other values, that the best information is the best. I think it's a very good tip from a dog. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u59	A respectable president. The next session will include two special discussions. Almost since the assembly met, I have had a request for a special discussion with the prime minister of violence in the community. Our prime minister has taken up one of the ten national leaders in charge of UN Women's equality campaign. We've been involved. He has encouraged others to join him in dancing for courageous women all over the world who are fighting adversity, injustice, and abuse in daily life. But he does not seem to have time to come to the council and discuss with us what the government intends to do to counteract violence in Icelandic society. As an example of the urgency of this, there were striking reports this weekend that more people have never been to the hospital emergency room because of the rape than they did last year. In fact, more and more offenses and offenses are being violated, such as humiliation and speech, but the number of charges is not growing in the same way. [[The president calls.]] This is a group of paintings under many ministers that I thought it was right to direct this request to Prime Minister as a foreman, the pointy of the government, but it seems simply to be lost. This weekend's vice president advertised him, but he does not seem to be interested in coming and talking to us, especially in the sensitive and difficult group of cases involving sexual abuse in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for having this conversation with me and the members of Congress today. A recent report on the cost and effectiveness of training education in Iceland reveals a predictable educational card in the country. The report reports that the number of enrolled students at the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri was reduced by 35% since 2009 and that 51% of new students were enrolled in the divisions in the fall of 2016 compared to 2009. Just about a year ago, an article in the News magazine presented the results of his study to Professor HI, the Helgi of Eiríkur Eyjólfsson Eylfsson and Stefán Hrafn Jónsson. That's where even the two of them come from. Until up to a 50% increase in the graduation of teachers in the next few years would not be enough to maintain the teachers'class. From HI and HA, between 2014 and 2016, 105 students graduated each year with the right to work at all school levels, requiring at least 10 per year. Only 200 teachers in elementary school to keep the class in line, so it can be seen that the problem is great. Jóhanna Einarsdóttir, president of the High School of Education, says that this is what they have previously pointed out, and this is a social problem in which a teacher's large annual walk is going to retirement, and a teacher's graduation is not being kept in touch with that trend. It says that wanting is all we need, the matter is with the government, and an emergency is developing. A report published by the National Review Board contains the following: so that about 60% of educated preschool teachers and about half of the educated elementary school teachers are teaching in the local schools and schools. It tells us that the lack of teachers will not be solved merely by the growth of teachers but by a larger context. The challenge is to attract educated teachers to work and encourage them to continue working within the class, where we cannot overlook the ideals and conditions of teachers. Therefore, it is not impossible to ask the minister if he believes that the Ministry's goal is to increase the number of teachers under 40 years of age between 2015 and 2020. In many respects, the ministry's reaction to the State Accounting report is of interest. Most remarkable is the fact that the problem has not been dealt with long ago. A healthy policy was taken between the last and five years for the university and scientific sector, and this policy was laid to the foundation of the budget. It also shows that the government's financial policy for the next five years is presented to promote teachers'education and contribute to the renewal of teachers and better academic progress. HI and HA, however, say in their response to the report that governments repeatedly introduced to the educational authorities, by permission of the president, that the long - term failure of the university level in this country has inhibited the development of the work, especially recent development, the renewal of the infrastructure and the development of learning and innovation in the way of teaching. Even now, the number of home Bible studies by means of lack of money and HA says, for example, by permission of Presidents, that it would be very interesting to be able to offer both music requisitions and art requisitions in cooperation with high school in town- and special school. So you cannot help but ask yourself, " How does the Ministry envision a chance for this to come together, since the increase at the university is far too small and even an offer of study is being cut down? ' Madam President. There are many things to consider in this matter. The schools and their staff are constantly drawn, and it is important that ministers be treated in the way that they intend to ensure the support of the authorities to their teachers so that schools can provide sufficient support for younger and older teachers in the wide range of communication problems that they may face in the outer working environment. In what way shall the minister, e.g. ensures the support and counseling of the school directors and teachers in cases where certain issues have become very difficult in the neighborhood and even come up with a press discussion in which teachers do not have many opportunities to express themselves publicly about their views? Besides, I can't pass by asking the highest. Ministers on the problem of the students with mental disorders, but as former health minister, he knows that humble resources are available in schools for their students. This is one of the factors that put great pressure on teachers and students. Is there some means of working out at the Ministry to address the problems of this group? When it comes to good school systems, they are quoted at Finns, but in Finland, they may need special education and respond very early to it. In Finnish elementary school, 28% of students received special training in 2013. Many feel that their special teaching system is one of the main factors in outstanding progress and that distinguishes the Finnish school system. I know there are many questions, and I hope the Minister gets over to answer them. I'm gonna go over them a little. The first has to do with the Government Accounting that encourages the government to take action in terms of the impending lack of teachers and the diminishing attendance at teachers. Will the Minister resort to some sort of indignities, e.g. through the student loan system or in other ways? Does a minister think that some way a teacher's school needs to be changed? If so, how? Does a minister agree that the teacher's salary is one of the reasons why only about half of the graduates are teaching? Does Ministers believe that rural society is in general a financial position to respond to a lack of teachers? [[The president calls.]] What has been done on the part of the government to attract educated teachers to work, and what will be considered in the following months? [[The president calls.]] In what ways does a minister feel that secular work can be improved in school, made the teaching work more desirable, and increased school activities in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. There were seven of them, as she could before. In addition, one more four appeared in a fine talk. Senator. All the questions show how important it is for us to accept the task of man - made school program with qualified and good people, as they have been for a long time. I'm gonna run over answers and promise you what. First, I'm not able to answer all the questions in my first reply, trying to get what is left of me in my second answer. We know that changes in education law were made here at the beginning of this century and on the rules for education and guidance of teachers and school leaders were made in 2008. Then studies in basic and play and secondary education were extended so that, in most cases, a master-level education met the criteria for teaching rights. However, the majority of high school professionals are excluded from this requirement. The main argument for the 2008 Law Change was to tailor Icelandic teachers' professional education to reforms that in recent years had become a global teacher's education. These international actions were generally aimed at promoting the professionalism of teachers and promoting their independence and responsibilities. However, these changes were accompanied by a number of growth pains. In part, the story repeated itself. The number of teachers was temporarily increased in the leading of these laws, and after the approval of the 2008 Law, study attendance was reduced. We are still today in that down cycle. In recent years the Ministry has cooperated with stakeholders in action to increase the number of teachers, to promote the development of teachers and school leaders, and to eliminate loss from the teachers'class. The Ministry's budget has to do with budgeting for the next five years, as well. There's even a question of scruples. Special emphasis on education and innovation in the teachers'class. We're working on a plan to cooperate with stakeholders on the development of teachers for the future. It is also important to minimize the loss of teachers. I suppose the laws on education and advice of teachers and school leaders and regulations on the content of teachers' education will be reviewed in this context, including to explain teaching rights that apply to more than one school level. The Ministry has also been working in the past few years on the teacher's job development policies with the establishment of a professional staff on the development of teachers and school directors in 2012. That work ended with a report in March 2016. Following her, she decided to start a new team of cooperation. It is intended to include to implement the results of the report as the most comprehensive co-operation. The staff of teachers and school directors is now working particularly hard to establish a new teaching program and how to obtain the removal from the teachers'class. It is advisable to collect information about the situation and the activities being carried out at the university, the European Union of Iceland, Reykjavík and other rural areas and to submit suggestions in these areas to me when it is decided to take place in its work. In this regard, however, the Ministry has a team of personnel working on academic policies. I have also taken up these issues in discussions with others. Iceland University and the presidents of Education and Headmasters. Last week, I had the opportunity to discuss these matters with them as we discussed possible ways to cope with the impending lack of teachers, which certainly is not new and possible action to keep him in mind. The question was asked here, and it fits into this context, whether changing the teaching course is natural in any way. It should be noted that 2008's 2008 education and guidance laws are framed and do not give clear instructions on the content or arrangements of a teacher's education. However, a regulation on the education of play, elementary and high school from 2011 provides much room for college to organize the training of teachers. Clearly, a teacher's education can be given in a more varied way than is now being done here. It is likely necessary that this be done in order to meet the problems facing the men of school in the years to come. In this regard, it is important to consider making the teacher study practical and exciting for as the most diverse class of teachers with a wide background. In my second answer, I'm going to try to answer the questions that remain in the original questionnaire. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this serious problem that we will have to deal with within a few years if drastic measures are not taken. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier the report on the cost and efficiency of training at the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri. There is more than the senator mentioned earlier, e.g. The fact that in December 2015, 1,758 educated preschool teachers in the film schools of the country were released in 2,992 licences since 2009. This means that a large percentage of those who still seek these rights are looking elsewhere. Similar rates will be among those who have the right to teach in elementary schools. This is a serious matter, for it is presented in this excellent report at the expense of the state funds, i.e. taxpayers, with each graduate teacher after five years of study, there is a minimum of 4.3 million. What a shame it is if such investment results in only a small amount in the community! Add to this the fact that there will be significant consequences in this study, i.e. Many who start the game choose to quit at the highest rate. - Now I think I'm going to be the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, the voice is giving up. There's a virus here. - Sometimes it's said that men reap what they sow. Sadly, that is not true of those who choose this study and this field of service. [[The president calls.]] The pay is shamefully low, both in national and national groups. Surely we need to raise the classes that pursue education on the level they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u63	A respectable president. I'm going to go back to the highest. Education minister released the word and discussed the length of the teacher's study. The class of teachers was extended in Iceland from three years to five years ago. Of course, the goal was to increase the education of a teacher, a very good goal. However, if there is a decrease in study size, that goal may not be achieved. Information on the length and format of a teacher's education in many European countries can be found on the Eurydice network, which includes such information for the countries involved in the Erasmus+ project. Almost all of the member countries require three to five years of university education, e.g. It seems to me three years is enough in Belgium and Poland, but the most common thing is that those who work there have a master's degree. For Finnum and French, teaching is five years, but four - year teaching studies are not uncommon at all. That's how it is, for example. correspondent in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, according to Eurydice. We have to keep in mind that at the time we've had five years of rights, Iceland is that country in OECD, where newly written teachers are the oldest because of the degree to study the student's test here. Now a study of the student's test has been reduced, and I hope and is optimistic that it might have a positive effect on that aspect. If we compare numbers from 2009 to HI, the number of students in HI has decreased by 1,500 in general, while the number of students in the teachers'department has dropped by 600, all too much. I'm not saying that I have the magic formula but maybe we could look around a few countries where people receive limited rights in a certain field of education after three or four years, but then we can give five years of study a much wider rights. It is an idea, not an idea to give up, but an idea that the original goal for the improved education of Icelandic teachers is achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u64	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the advocate for this very important discussion. What we're discussing here is a very serious situation that is facing in our teachers' affairs of Iceland. Educated education is a very good education, a well - rounded education. Many who have trained in these articles have found it easy to find employment elsewhere. As mentioned in the debates, why not? Similarly, members of Congress have found work elsewhere in a large number of teachers who are trained to teach. We're seeing changes after class extensions. Now we see a shortage. I don't think this prolongation of the teacher's school was well established, what the consequences would have been, although the education itself is very positive. Then I think that there are others who play a role. The flexibility in the ministry is less than before. It is an increased external challenge, in many places not much opportunity, and many devices for basic school teachers, including to get help if anything is. We don't have to say a lot about the salary, it's too low. It is an added stress, often difficult external circumstances, and work conditions can be much better in many places. We have seen that more and more parts of the study are being done through effective study routes, and we have often seen that, for example, this is the case. Computer equipment in elementary schools has failed to comply with the requirements of the curriculum. I want to use the last minute here and say: It is very important to have a conversation with those who work in this article about all the changes and decisions that are taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for this most necessary discussion. I also want to thank the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for his answers. I want to use this opportunity to look especially at school teachers. As to this, I'd like to say that there is not just a shortage, we've just gone into the desert as far as the law is concerned. This isn't the first time I'm standing here, and this is what I'm worried about, and I'm saying that we can't afford to invite our youngest people to go into the future without having the guidance of a professional nursery teacher. I want to focus on an OECD report published in 2015. The report is Staring Strong IV, in the quality of the OECD Schools. The report specifically shows that one key to improving the quality of high school activities is to improve working conditions, teaching education, and re-educing teachers. In fact, it also recommended strengthening data collections, research, and assessment of school activities. The discussion has been a significant factor in the pay of teachers and the reduction in the application of study applications in connection with a five - year university education. First, I want to say that I, a professional preschool teacher with five years of college, was able to work in a way defined in the OECD report. In no way will I support a short school teacher in school. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education and culture would consider it desirable to disappear from a trend that has led to the advancement of a professional preschool teacher by shortening studies rather than looking for ways to promote academic education in the field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u66	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. It's important. It is vital that this problem be handled firmly. The union, along with its representatives of other anti - generals, led by the President of the United States of Logi Einarsson, has proposed a Synod decree to hide the highest order. The Minister of Education and Cultures to appoint a team of personnel to recommend future measures against educational deficiency. In a paper with the Senate resolution proposal, the need to increase the number of school graduates and to make schools the desired places for work is presented. The lack of educated teachers has become so great that about one third of preschool standards are appointed preschool teachers and only about half their basic school teachers are teaching teachers. In order to ensure that those teaching themselves choose to work within the school and that others are eager to be teachers, the profession must be thoroughly reviewed by the profession's salary and working environment. In the autumn of 2016, 214 new students enrolled at the State University Schools, which were 440 in 2009. The reduction is 51%. These figures, together with the fact that there is a lack of teachers already, clearly show the importance of a decisive response to the Council. In this context especially, it is necessary to examine qualified teachers and to evaluate the degree to which they are involved. By conforming to the currency rights of the public market and its official, it is necessary that the pay of teachers and other public employees be re-evaluated, for the rights of pension have weighed quite well in their terms. Even if only for that reason, it is predictable that the teacher's monthly salary will rise. In order to prevent a teacher's shortage, efforts need to be made to increase the attention of the Generalist and the greater part of the public talk, since that is the future of our children at stake. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u67	A respectable president. I may be influenced by the fact that on Thursday, on the summer day of the first day, Vigdís' house opened the World Age. So I want to look especially at language. The opening of the World War II raised a great debate about language studies. I heard something like that. in the Association of Channel 1 Anna Sigride, daughter of Þyninsdóttir, points out that between 2007 and 22014, high school students were reduced by 50 percent. There, too, there was Petrína Rós Karlsdóttir, president of a community of language teachers, who pointed out that the last semester of high school was just disappearing, that would likely be just three of those who still had a legal course. This is important because the system of education is to prepare students for involvement in a world that is changing all the time, and one of the things that is changing now is that it is becoming more and more international. If we do not have enough language to study at all schools so that we can educate language teachers in the future, we are not preparing these young people for life that they will accept. In addition, this is important in Icelandic languages, where professional work around a higher level of foreign languages is introduced into Icelandic, college - level Icelandic. I wondered, " Is the trend described at the colleges that the lawsuit is vanishing? Another example of a statue of the high school four years to three, one - sided, removing strength from a variety of parts of the study, whether the seminars are one of the victims of the short - term. ' In recent years, we have seen efforts to get real - life students. [[The president calls.]] Now I ask if it is time for a language study, as well as a teaching course discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u68	V.E.G. President. I thank both the proprietor and the highest. Minister of education for their introduction to this need. I especially want to thank the highest. A minister of education for what he brings forward and what lies ahead for a teacher's education. It is clear that in the lake, the law on education and guidance of teachers and school directors is being revised. This is very important in the changed world in which we are now living. The teachers'work is much longer, I just want to say more difficult and varied than it was 50 years ago. It is a reality that preparation for this work should include in the planning of a teacher's education. I'd also like to mention that when you went to your teaching school for five years, it was important. Because it is important that those who raise our children and make sure that they come to a person and are educated have a good foundation and good planning. But I believe that what happened when the study was extended was that the pay factor was not included, that did not respond to the cost of adding two years, spending time, money, and work, and that did not work with the teacher. One of the things to consider is the pay factor in the teacher's work. Of course, there's been a lot of things here, and you could talk about this much longer, but I'd say the best. A minister of education to take good care of these factors and to make the way of the teacher and the work, so important, so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u69	A respectable president. On February 28, 2017, at 13:37, I gave a talk on the lack of teachers. Nothing has changed since then, unless it is possible that there is less time to deal with these present problems. The budget for the next five years is simply said, by permission of the President: ▪ Now it is so high that the colleges do not reach a track of enough teachers to meet the needs for innovation at these school levels. That. games, basic and high school stages. It also says that information is not available to set goals for improving the training of teachers in teaching rights. The situation is not better now than the information we have. Our goals need not be complicated. That would be, for example. can set goals for the proportion of teachers by teaching rights in school and possibly for the proportion of those who work as teachers of all the agers with the right to teach. According to the New Year's Review Report, it is not enough to increase the number of teachers, and it must also be restored to the schools already educated. Otherwise, as early as 2031 C.E., severe teachers fail. More people are growing, and more is needed for teachers. That would require 70% of all teachers to be active as such in order to be a man of all positions. Today, it's less than half. In 2031 the future is not far off. It takes five years to graduate today. The problem must be solved during this terms. I agree with what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, we need to find a solution. One could be a restricted right for another special study and a shorter teacher's study. It would also be possible to search for teachers among those who have no teaching rights. The pay factor needs to be considered. That's where I agree with what's happened. Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's choice. It is important to have a good education system, for without educated teachers, we do not have an education system, whether the education system is in public business or personal business. No matter where we came from, we must agree on it. Good education needs a teacher. Students need teachers, and the value of a good teacher cannot be measured in money. What a good teacher leaves behind is priceless.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u70	Madam President. Without action, there is an enormous lack of teachers. Soon the great river marches of the class will retire, and new registrations will not be involved in that loss. Since 2009, students of the university's textbooks have dropped by 35%. In the long run, students tend to get the bite. With a quick response, we will not only improve the quality of our teacher but also ensure a child's right to a good education so that he can grow and thrive. Such investments are unequivocally restored. It is necessary to make the work more attractive. To respond to a shrinking attendance at a teacher's school, you need to improve the quality of your teacher. An important factor in this context is to lighten the load of teachers. The nature of the work is stress, but as a result of a community awareness of the importance of giving students with mental problems and learning problems, these pressures have increased dramatically. By improving the social services available to students and by having qualified staff handle that part, we will be able to lighten the stress of teachers. Thus, teachers could focus on their main work and make sure that they become the best of teaching. This, however, requires further education. Whether too much money is spent in the business of reforms is more than just teaching. In all likelihood, there would be a way to save a lot of money by dealing with the purchases of the State. Lack of perspective, however, leads to unnecessary spending of billions of dollars because of excessive shopping. By the government's market, the price of the highest and the lowest price of goods may be up to seven times, even if bought from the same supply. There is a lot of savings in uniting shopping, buying a fixed dollar's products with a power discount. There's one thing to consider, though. If the policy is to ensure an increase in funding with such changes, then the key to the benefit of change to this category is to be used. Madam President. The time has come for the teachers to give them the respect they deserve. It is necessary to hear what teachers have to say about their position. This allows improvement of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It is very important, as it has been seen among all my members who have participated in the discussion. I also want to thank the Minister for making a good effort to answer all the questions that exist here. All the analyses that I have done for the future, whether for the Swedish Labour Organization or for the American, include teaching at all levels of school. Their conclusion is that schools will develop, and they will change with new technology and new teaching methods, but there is no evidence other than that good teachers will continue to become an important resource for each nation. Hence, the situation that we look forward to is that of a public review that points to an impending teaching card in this country as a serious concern. In this discussion, we have considered why and how to resolve these issues. I can say many of the things that have been presented here. Is it the solution to increase pay and improve employment? It was a teacher's tip that there was one key to making sure that we could increase the number of teachers. It has also been said about whether extending the lesson was a mistake at the time. Should we shorten it again, is that the right way, is that the answer? However, there is one point that I would like to eventually mention that has not been mentioned in the discussion, but it has to do with the sex division of the work market. Women are in the majority of those teaching, and the proportion has increased in recent years. I have found that there is a very significant debate, not only here in Iceland but also in other countries, about the lack of professions where only half of the population is being attended when these projects are primarily carried out. [[The president calls.]] That is one of the things I would like to direct to the minister, how to balance the sex ratios, and to make sure that the teaching work is interesting for both men and women.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u72	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity to discuss equality in connection with the development of a teacher's education. Not long ago, a program was presented to increase the number of men in high school. The Union of Icelandic rural society, the University of University of Iceland, the University of Teachers in Akureyri, the Félag of the Theocratic Ministry School and the Theocratic Ministry Schools brought together a series of programs entitled Men in Young Children. The primary objective of this project is to attract the attention of young men to their school teachers and, on the other hand, to increase the number of them in their work. The project is about recruiting three male task managers and granting them an amount of 1 billion. K. to start a master's course in the fall of 2017, which gives them permission to teach in the nursery class. We all know that the Theocratic Ministry School program is what has been called the ◯ traditional women's work. The truth is, however, that in our society, both sexes have the same capacity to educate the youngest generation. Somebody's gotta stand down and clear the path. Here we are taking first steps in that direction, and the question is, Is the Ministry of Education ready to continue in that direction? I want at the end to leave a word from a joint to the principal nursery in 2011, with the permission of a president: The education and results of the school system are based first and last on a well - educated and interested class of teachers at all schools. Teachers'well - being is based on specialized education, knowledge, attitudes, and morals of the work. None of those words are sexual, and I believe it is our responsibility to make the teaching work more desirable for both genders in order to promote the educational work of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u73	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir A daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir has already been proposed as a synopsis to take action against the lack of teachers. There's a lot at stake. This is serious and we have to take action. Respect, pride, and professionalism seek my mind. Part of the discussion is about the pay salary of teachers, and most of the evidence suggests that their terms show a lack of respect for the authority's importance of teachers, or how should we understand a different trend that has taken place? Respect is a basic factor in satisfying relations and the underlying tone of molding righteous communities, whether they are large or small, homes, schools, workplaces, states, or communities of people. This is no less or less than the noble equalism in sum. Thus, teaching is a unique work and is of utmost importance in the lives of young people. We hide the teacher's care and shape our most expensive wand, the children, in the hours of the day, from the age of play until the critical formative years. Why is respect for this work not truly manifest? In this we are the successors of most of our neighbors and certainly in the case of pay. At the same time, we make even greater demands on our teachers, and when things go wrong at school, they all have a real challenge. They are heading for a school disorder because of lack of teachers. In a new report, a public review of the court says that the government has not given enough attention to shrinking the application of teachers and the serious risk of a teacher's shortage. We need to turn the struggle together, with teachers, with parents. Teachers, together with parents, are key characters in the everyday lives of young ones, those who will take over the baton. [[The president calls.]] Teachers are key characters in strengthening their self - respect and the ability to show respect, to share, to teach, to teach, and to educate, to seek knowledge. [[The president calls.]] It is about how we, as a nation, will be angry among the nations in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u74	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers just arrived. I realize that these are very many questions, and I added them and others have added them. Thank you. Councilmen for the deposit. Out comes respect and honor. Is that not what a significant issue is? The teachers'work has not had the respect they should have. I have read a good deal about how these matters are being done in many places, including reading a lot about Finland and the Finnish way of teaching. This is what I feel is getting out of it. Ministers are right, many things have led to the fact that the situation is the witness, but we must respond to the first. Hence, it is important that the result be reached relatively soon, so that changes can be introduced as soon as possible. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister, because a teacher's attitude was mentioned here, whether we have participated in TIALIS, a work study on the working conditions of teachers and school environments proposed for the typical selection of teachers and school directors. It aims to provide reliable and comparable data to shape and define a policy on the development of the teacher's work. These polls contain the voices of teachers and school directors. There are perhaps answers to many of the things that I and others have asked about here. Teachers are the most sought-after workers. The sexual feelings are also valid, as we have considered. I think everyone wants their children to have good teachers. It's out of the community that they're highly educated. Therefore, I have not supported the reduction of my study. However, I believe it is very important that we find our teachers'work in the remuneration, equipment, and environment around our teaching. I think that's the most important thing we have to deal with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u75	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. It shows that the subject is very interested in members of the Parliament. Most people are willing to assist in some way. This is highlighted in the discussions here. The wording was a fine reflection. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks, where he mentioned the difference between the registration of new students in this field. The attendance has decreased by 600 students between 2009 and2016, while students in general have dropped by 1,600, if I have just noticed. In a similar way, the words of two words reflect well. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that the problem is not limited to teachers but also to other aspects of his study. Attendance to the different types of study is changing. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson specifically mentioned the language study, which is a major concern about how it has been treated and how it has developed. I'd also like to stress that there's a considerable difference between partners. Hv. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty spoke of a nursery teacher. It's not a problem in some rural communities. We need to learn a lesson from the way we've handled matters in those rural communities, I'm referring to the fine rural business of Akureyri, including Acdine and Elfus. What has been done since it causes the position there, e.g. - On kindergartens? - Yeah. That's what we need to hold on to. As I described in my speech earlier, the Ministry is working on these topics. They've put in a working group. There is an excellent cooperation between all stakeholders. Because of what? At first, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir noted that we must act quickly and be in close partnership, the Ministry has had excellent cooperation with the Teacher Union, the Company Association, etc. While there are, there are, at times, differences. [[The president calls.]] I have no reason to believe that humans will make the necessary journey together, and it was actually predictable how the law would develop when it was changed in 2008. [[The president calls.]] I'm not about to reduce the requirements for study, just to be said, but, of course, we need to examine all the factors of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u76	Madam President. The situation of a housing market in Iceland, especially in the light of the status of young people and those with less income, has been very bad for some time. Clearly, the supply of housing is by no means demand. The situation suffers greatly on both buyers and tenants and has contributed to the absurdly rapid rise in real estate prices in the past loss. It's just not going to be all the pleasure of this position, and I'm glad to have this opportunity to ask the highest. Minister of housing for operations. Experts who know and have years, even decades, experience in working in an Icelandic facility say that the current situation is worse than it has been for as long as the oldest humans remember. To resolve the issue after long-term inaugural failure, more building areas, more small, two to three rooms, apartments, and faster construction projects, consultations and cooperation between rural communities, and a general overview of their status and future development are needed. It simply cannot be avoided to recognize that there is an emergency in these areas in the capital area and is the highest. Minister of housing, one of those who have so learned about the situation. So I'd like to even. to ask: What is the highest. Minister and chief. A government to do now to handle this crisis? The cost of housing, house - to - house shopping, or rent, is virtually the most important part of the home account. Thus, there is a direct link between the status of housing markets and the financial resources of people. A relatively recent report on the status of those with very poor material resources in this country reveals that today almost 4,300 people today live in a serious lack of material wealth. The reason I mention this group in particular is that when the Habitat analyzes a group of very poorer health in general, the status of people in a housing market is a key factor predicting whether people will be very poor. According to the Habitat report, results indicate that housing facilities, health and homemaking will be cohesive to policies that are inexhaustible. That's a lot to do. However, this equation can also be reversed, stating that this interaction will be made with policy-makers to ensure that, where possible, the availability and diversity of the home is available. I'm also asking the highest. Minister: What is the highest opinion? A minister can be more supportive of the most lucrative groups, whether for purchase or rent? As mentioned earlier, there has been a special task force on four cabinet ministers to implement measures to repair housing markets, measures to overcome the emergency situation. This is very important. I tie, like more, the hope that these actions will hit the knot. The problem with such initiative groups is that they are not all the same until the situation has taken place for a considerable time and with the related costs and problems for many of the people. It is important to work hard for all to see that at the same time and to cope with the present problems will be all too hard to prevent the same or similar situation from returning in the predictable future. Here's the password for you. For the most part, the problem of housing has been completely predictable and for a longer period of time. It's not about nuclear physics. It's here the need for common sense, which the common people demand, to establish when they are being treated with a legal sect as abundantly as it really is. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of housing in the end: How can long-term stability of real estate markets be assured to prevent such conditions from returning?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u77	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The senator of this discussion, which is of utmost importance in the position we have in our housing market today. Having a roof over his head is one of the most important things for man, one of the basic needs of state and rural society must come by every means available. The market situation at this time was totally predictable. I've mentioned this place before that at least a building market has been referred for a long time. During the past 15 years or so, when people are walking through their 25 years of age moving away from home, we know quite well when there is a large river access to an apartment market. So this problem was totally anticipated. It is complex and requires that countries and rural communities come together, especially in the troubled capital area, about how we can solve both the short - term problems, the great lack of markets, and just as much as how we can, in the long run, prevent this situation from changing. Like what? A senator mentioned that at the level of the government, we have set up a special group of action which, in cooperation with the rural areas of the capital, will provide comprehensive suggestions on how we can deal with this crisis in a short and long time. More than anything else, No. 1, 2 and 3, how we provide increased housing into the market now, under difficult circumstances. How to ensure proper housing, i.e. Practical, inexpensive housing, first thought of purchase? How do we make sure that people can have a home? There has been considerable emphasis on building tenets and social resources, which, of course, are essential in the complete approach of a housing market, but unfortunately, it has been noted that the ability to own one's own home has become the focus of a simple position. All studies show that with long-term follicular disease in view, the most practical option is to acquire rather than rent, the long-term financial burden becomes much smaller, the building of property, the safety in older years, and so on. That is why the present situation is of great concern. I have much to worry about how tenants have taken their place in the market, when people who really want to have their first place of residence, may not be able to compete with their financial prowess. It is important to consider how we can simplify the planning, especially to speed up projects in the emphasis on the development of the capital area. We need to look for ways in which we can get a building order to improve our support of smaller and inexpensive apartments. We need to look at how our rural areas are going to land, that their prices encourage buildings of smaller buildings and possessions. We need to look at how the State can get into this by increasing the property supply in the capital area, as shown by the recent sales of the Hellenistic region. We have more opportunities in the capital area. We need to look for ways in which our rural communities work together to organize the production of property and housing into the future. The need is predictable in all basics. The rural population, such as in integrated rural areas, must plan how to meet the demand for the next four years, five years into the future, a demand that is completely anticipated. We need to look to the influence of tourism. We see evidence of a significant increase in commercial application in the urban population, where tourism will then compete with the inhabitants of the country for a roof above their heads. We need to ensure that, in the same way that we organize for the restaurants business and forums where we may formally permit this informal room service, which has been very increasing through the Airbnb, and such less planning is under structure like that of others. We will also look at how we can coordinate housing support, both housing and growth improvements to the most efficient groups, and how the joint housing programmes in rural areas can help to improve the long term market balance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u78	Madam President. Hv. The apocalyptic, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, asks for the highest. Ministers how to ensure a better market balance for a longer time and to prevent the situation from returning. It is certainly a joy to hear this talk given by these two executives, in view of the fact that the government did not mention it as a single word in its government covenant, either in the matter of housing or in the tenet. But it's good that we've come so far as they've put us in a task force. Well, we're clearly fogged in the right direction, since members of the group are here asking one another where to go. All right. Thank you for your discussion. It is clear that after the construction workforce was dropped by about two decades, the markets have been given much control of the housing market. The present situation is largely the product of it. As we have seen, low - income individuals and young people are among the worst in the present situation. This group does not have the resources to buy homes and the few other options than renting a public market. As early as 2012, the labor movement called attention to the need to build 1,000 apartments each year for five years and 600 each year thereafter. During 2015, the government promised to provide subsidies on construction of some 2,300 apartments until 2019 in a new general apartment system, a system that will use young people, and low-costs that have no money or that have limited money. However, these are just 600 apartments per year for the four years, 2016,2019, not 1,000, as suggested. It is only to see and understand that, in view of the existing proposal for terms of financial planning, this strain will be halved by 2020, i.e. to 300 apartments a year. Is this the right way, chief? Minister, to prevent the present state from being maintained?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u79	Madam President. A community where citizens cannot find housing is the limit to being able to call themselves members of a community. The Icelandic real estate and rent market is completely and completely fucked up so you just speak Icelandic. It excludes young people and the less wealthy, and the solutions that politicians have so far brought have often been worse than nothing. Many Icelanders cannot maintain their own home and the only practical option offered is to live at home with Mom and Dad. Higher parents, such as. We, can buy peace and peace by helping young people with their own savings, which confirms the failure of the system. We know what the problem is, a small supply of possessions and competition with foreign tourists, far more favorable to renting. A big addition is needed if the price of housing is to be settled, not just for some big-ass bank members in real estate, but for them to feed on. Of course, the breaking of the rent market and having one's own home only for the more prosperous ones is not the highest. The minister of the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson to blame, but if he does not respond properly, and the people make it possible for him to live here, it will be his fault. He took responsibility for the situation when he sat down on the minister's chair. It would have been so much easier to raise a rock - mass in this category if it were the highest level. A minister would not directly have guaranteed those responsible for the situation. What happens to the housing market is done either by the will of the Independence Party or by his inability to run a community here. Still, I support the highest. A minister of the mind to attack this huge problem. If the project is too much for the government of Iceland, some companies in this country have a much clearer view and a greater performance than we have seen coming from this house. The government can probably borrow IKEA on how to build efficient and inexpensive and make good market. To keep the government and the prime minister in place, we can call it plan ◯Bjarni to remind you that there is nothing different here that keeps young people in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a chief. Minister for this important discussion. Young people today are not in an envious position to get to the housing market, but it has been difficult to obtain their own housing, and the problem is not just young people. The problem is also the older people who have come to have to reduce their numbers. The demand for less housing is enormous while the supply is virtually zero. Today, therefore, the problem of all generations is mainly a problem of the capital area, mostly in the city of Reykjavík. And that the mayor allows himself to create such an offer problem is distressing. Further government grants, medium management routes, and other public involvement in the housing market are not likely to be effective. It has proved true. I hope to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities found that to be true. Because the government's involvement in real estate markets, e.g. In the form of complex regulations, vast donations, and lack of property, young people are affected not only by young people but by all generations. Yet, with a simple rule and a smaller payback, we can take great steps to help people find a suitable home. The real estate market needs to be much more flexible than it is today. I've tried to contribute my share and have proposed a bill to cancel a clock charge for people's homes. The objective, of course, is to try to make it easier for people to get an apartment building and to increase the efficiency and flow of it into the market. In fact, the bar tax also affects the increase in real estate prices, reduces supply, and reduces the share of buyers and sealers. So it will be interesting to hear from the highest level. Minister if he is involved in such tax reductions on individuals who also help to buy an apartment. A respectable president. We know a problem, but we need to look at it. Again, we will not solve the problem with increasing government spending, media control, or further government change. When it comes to housing, the government has so far been the problem. I encourage ministers to do all the good things to create an environment in which those who want to be realistic can have their own home and where an active tenant can survive. To do so, we must plan to simplify the regulations, to reduce currency, but above all, to stop believing that by increasing Kingdom activities, we can make life easier for everyone, for that is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u81	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion and why. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son and secretary for the answers. It's interesting to listen to what's happened. According to members of Parliament, this problem in the housing market was predictable. Then you simply have to ask yourself, " What is the reason why I forget to mention housing matters, apartment housing, the government covenant, and the minister decided not to call himself a zone minister? ' However, I would like to emphasize here how we increase our supply. We politicians are very good at promoting demand, but we are not as good at securing a house - to - house supply. It's been at the Minister's Constitution to remask a case I had here at the council for the last election that has to deal with housing plans. It's a pleasure to see that the camp loan fund has been meeting with rural communities all over the country and helping them with the construction of housing plans, but it would be important to get better for that work and to sharpen it according to the bill I had presented here. I'd also like to mention some ideas, at the short time I have, that come from Britain. I think it is very important that there is a clear requirement for rural society and even that funding for them are conditioned through an equation fund, that they account for enough construction ground to ensure an oer to an apartment building for the next five years with certain ◯buffers, in line with what is known in the United Kingdom. Again, we need to consider what we can do about regulations. There's been talk of a more favorable tax environment. I'd like to point out those who are building houses, those who are going to build themselves, and look for ways to increase our surveillance on temporary rents to tourists, and make sure that it will be not just for five years that further building projects will be made to rent homes, but that we will ensure the future construction of their buildings. [[The president calls.]] I also want men to look at the so - called Home Building Fund in Britain and demand that the countryside publish information about people who are reaching out and wanting to build in their communities so that we can see what the real demand is for apartment housing locally.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u82	A respectable president. Since my spears are repeatedly directed to my rural communities during this discussion, I would like to speak with a little experience in the two minutes I have here. I don't know exactly where to begin, but I'm gonna start by declaring disappointment. In 2014, a large number of rural areas in the capital area have repeatedly requested consultation with the State and financial institutions for cooperation. If I mention it here, this fine report came out of a group of members of the Kópavogi community where a number of options were taken. This is 2014, 2015 and today is 2017. It presents a wide range of implementations of the problems we face today. We have a suggestion to change the law. We have a suggestion for social housing, legification of rent, remuneration for those who have paid up and may have been thrown out of the social system. We're talking about the first purchase of an apartment. We're talking about a lot of apartments in the rented market, and there are all kinds of purchases and other things. The state will begin with something called a general law, and we repeatedly asked for cooperation and consultation with the local community. I'm sure that if we had developed a common policy on the host housing issues in 2014, if we were to have a proper number of information on travel services, demographic development, these measures had been formed, and this cooperation, we wouldn't be in this place today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u83	President. I'd like to thank you for starting this discussion, which is urgent. It touches thousands of Icelanders. At present, there is one of the most powerful economics of the republic. We have young and well - educated and powerful people in most professions who want to help. Unemployment is negligible. Yet, we have set up our years in such a way that hundreds or fewer individuals and families, far too many, do not receive permanent housing, a place to live, do not have a safe home. In many cases, children need to be driven between schools or even communities for these reasons, and this affects them. In the full - time ministry, a young person who is inundated with a ten - year - old ten - year - old who is in pay comes to a closed door in credit institutions despite having an unscrupulous financial story and who can ease his financial burden by having a secure home. As a result, some even choose a place in other countries and lie down to those who want to. Moneyism is on the loose. Still, the device is in its own hands. Independenceists encourage young people to be treated in advance and to hide their inheritance. These things are acceptable and acceptable in their charges. Are these really options, Madam President? We as officers think first of those who do not have this access to money, who do not have rich parents, who fight on their own terms. Everyone should have the same opportunities, not just some. We are to create the situation where everyone can have a permanent home safety rather than a market that is feeding on a clean yoke. The ideas that have existed cannot be resolved. To that end, we have just as good a point as we want to do better. If we look at it, we have provided a huge improvement in housing, even in this country. It takes an equal opinion to improve the interests of the public in this as well as that of others. What's the hold-up now? [[The president calls.]] Who will be in charge? Who is warm to the meat pots? It's not equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u84	Madam President. This is an important discussion about housing matters in Iceland. I'd like to start by saying that with what. The adage that the conditions at a housing market in Iceland have been a significant loss for some time. I don't think this is any new news for us either in this room or in this country. That is why I was surprised when the government's treaty was announced that the matter of housing was not covered. And it surprises me again in a policy published in the national budget program for 2018,2022 how little is actually being done on the premises. It should not be given in a number of ways in your housing areas, where stock contributions will be reduced or even wiped out after three years. Expansion is to be reduced, and that will certainly be a disaster for many. It just says a very clear letter on page 18. 70 of the State Department. So I can't see that there's an opinion of the highest level. Government or Supreme. Ministers really put the matter of housing first. You can't read from the existing cops. Hv. The perfunctory and the highest. A minister spoke of the problem as being overlooked. Then, as I do, whenever we discuss housing matters, I will always be able to remind you of the importance of building according to universal design standards, because if we don't look to the future in the way that our homes are built, we'll have trouble in the future because there won't be a place to live that is suitable for a country that is growing old and needs a home to take care of it. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid this point will not count me enough in this discourse. [[The president calls.]] I will continue to take her until I see instead after this is actually done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u85	President. I'd like to refer to suggestions in a recent article by Benedikt Sigurðarson, director of Bustha hf. In Akureyri. He'll come up with a few suggestions, which I encourage the highest. A minister to consider. By permission of the President: So a new approach is needed to increase housing availability and reduce market expansion. As an example: Involvement must be an increased demand for the perks of buyers who are in debt to apartment purchases in the urban areas (the capital's centre) • Then he is referring to the dance rules of the UNECE since the start of 2016. Benedikt continues: The law on rent-species surveillance needs to be taken. The requirement must be made for tenants to be registered and supervised. All contracts will be long-term contracts, and incorporated will be paid in the Swedish/Semitic model. Limitations of the individual's authority to rent a lease with apartments established as law-enforcement homes, and planning regulations determine whether or not an apartment is set up as rent/house dwellers or as property camps. The camp owners do not themselves judge whether they will change an apartment from a rented apartment to a special property apartment. Rather, they will be subject to organizational decisions for which rural governments have the ultimate responsibility. The authority to rent apartments on the market is generally aimed at renting an apartment number two or three in the same house that humans themselves live in. If the number of cabib sprays belong to the same party over three people, the relevant should be stored in excess of the number of registered carers/boluble partners subject to maximum prices rules. Now I'm almost done with my time and I'm not even halfway there. But I'm the highest. A secretary to read this article in the hour and have the title "Not-For-Prapt Biodiversaries" will need to deal with market failures at the market. [[The president calls.]] I hope to receive a response from a minister, whether he has studied the suggestions on how to handle matters that have come from Bustea and Busseta in order to cope with an emergency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u86	A respectable president. I'd like to be like others to thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for taking this discussion today. I am very interested in this matter, and I have observed it for a considerable time. I'd like to read here some headlines from the news: In the near future, there will be a real estate market. This report came from 2004. U.S.A., U.S.A., U.R., U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S. A report from 2005 A post-residence sign was observed. 2008. ▪100 billion unused investments A headline in 2009 When we talk about the lack of real estate, we often end up in the countryside. That's right. There would've been more weights to share. Especially in the case of Reykjavík. But many of us have also been organized. The market was just not ready to start and build. It wasn't tools, it wasn't employees and number one, two and three wasn't money, because the banks didn't want to lend money in building real estate on this market. That is why we are faced with this problem now. And, yes, it was totally predictable. Everyone can say that it takes time to build an apartment. It wasn't started and done after a crash. Of course, much of that is involved. What can we do? Action group is referred to. That's okay. Maybe we should just take hammers and start building. It would only solve the problem. I'm especially pointing this out because I'm stressing that this is a multi-item problem. There are all kinds of things that determine that apartments are lacking in the market today. Of course, the tenants have also been large in the last eight years, and they have purchased large amounts of property in competition with those who have wanted to have real estate. But we also want to build a secure lease here, don't we? As a result, it is good for people who are willing to enter the market and invest. That's just the best part. But I would like to point out one thing that has not been presented in the discussion so far, and we especially need to look at in this room; there are construction research and innovations on this important market. We'll hear from a story about molds and other things. There I think we need to resist and consider how we are doing in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u87	V.E.G. President. Of course, the government's house - to - house policy is to be that everyone has a choice of living forms, i.e. having a home, a secure home for affordable prices, or going between the road and living in housing partners. It is of utmost importance that housing policy be developed in this country, that demand and supply are outlined in a housing market. In these areas, cooperation between countries and rurals is of great importance to the growth of property and related factors. We need to continue building on the general apartments in the strength of a bill adopted during the last term and became a law. All this work was closely cooperated with the European Union. They need to watch support for buying on their first estate and for those who have lost their home. The options of the first real estate, unfortunately, are not always suitable, so I would like to ask the highest degree. Whether he studied the British route for housing supplies. Its basic idea is to help young people to their first apartment purchases by means of a public convention on savings. People 16 years of age and older who have not been involved in property can establish a deposit account that carries out specific conditions like this. In the beginning, the account holder offers to set the bills and then pay the monthly savings. Residents receive no tax free 25% of their savings, which has minimal pay but also a peak. What's the bottom line? A minister of this arrangement, a British way, if he has studied it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u88	A respectable president. It was introduced to the Icelandic community and the Union and informed that one of the officers from the Union had been in a group to prepare for a general apartment law. They never contacted, e.g. Kopavog.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u89	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u90	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u91	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u92	No, you're wrong. [[Up front.]] No, no, no, no. Farmers have been criticized. But I want to come in with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir But the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir came in, just because the banks weren't ready to finance. 2011 The first apartments started. They were financed by trade. Regarding the number of apartments that must be built on the capital area, we have a total of 1,700,800 apartments a year, we have 2,000 apartments. Since 2017 and 2018 are expected to have 4,000 buildings in a building, it will clearly not meet needs over the next two years. I hope there's a balance to the market in three or four years. I think it's important that the travel service come into this a little bit. Because I have time to tell you that hosting license 2 which is available to tourists for employment is a practice that has been in the community. I think it would be a good way to take that activity out of the local community. That suggestion has at least one Some rural areas in the capital area are reported to have a total of 4,400 to800 apartments rented for tourists. If we wanted to do something right away, this would be one way to restore balance in less than three or four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u93	Mr. President. House - to - house activities are urgent, one of the most important economic issues and are also one of the most important things we are facing today. The development of real estate prices in the capital area is inexplicable, and thousands of young people are in need of housing markets and will be in the coming years if it is right to achieve a balance between three and four years and the market. We know most of the people who are stuck in parents' homes, who have grown ill between rent pools, or with the help of relatives to buy apartment housing, which they often find hard to pay. One problem is that the tenants have competed with the public for property and have contributed to the rise of both real estate and rent prices. Young people will live under the competition. The Group of United States Congress has proposed a judicial resolution to the highest degree. Governments arrive at the construction of 1,000 cabib sprays each year starting in 2018 and at least for the next three years. It is assumed that the government's approach will be based on local laws, No. 52/2016. In order to get young people and tenants into safe shelters, and also to meet union demands of increased social stability, the approach to the construction and solution of the facility is necessary by the government. By means of trade unions, an important success was achieved in the preparation of collective agreements in 2015, but it needs to be done better. To meet the demand for housing, according to analyses, some 10,000 apartments have to be built for 2019. Further increases in real estate prices are predicted that will further add to the problems of those without property. The government must ensure that housing is made suitable for children's families, young people, and employees who have little money and who have not benefited from an increase in house prices over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u94	A respectable president. Listening to the discussion has been very interesting and beneficial. Congress on this big interest in the public, the housing. I'd like to use this opportunity to discuss interest rates in Iceland in housing. I insist, like many others, that long-term growth in housing is one of the biggest interests of buyers and tenant housing today in Iceland. OECD lists the state of affairs of the 38 different states each year. This list provides fundamental factors such as income, unemployment, education, health, democratic participation, equality, security, and then housing. We Icelands have a very high value on this list in general, but when it comes to housing matters, it just flashed red light, not because we live in general, but because of the huge expense of Iceland's people getting up a roof over their heads. On average, Iceland uses a quarter of its provisional materials in housing and sits in the 5th lowest place of the OECD quality list. So it is a fact, despite the fact that many of the costs of housing such as electricity and heat are lower in the country than in most other places. As the situation is today, we pay over a whole house more of our real estate loans than our neighbors in the North countries. A reduction in growth is simply one of the most beneficial things to do in Icelandic households. This emphasis, therefore, is an enormously important factor in government action in the interests of the public, including the public. for housing. I'd be interested to hear from the highest. A minister on these matters, in addition to all the other questions he has been asked about in this important case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u95	Mr. President. Thank you for a very good discussion today on this important subject. Building a competitive standard of living is always the priority of this government. It is very clearly spoken of in a government contract, spoken of as the growth environment we live in, far too high. I think we can all agree on that. I think we're going to be judged by our arrangement for housing, but not what it said in a government contract, so I'll answer that question. There will not be lack of initiative. The problem is primarily a shortage. This is a market problem, a typical problem far more demand than a supply, and we need to do everything we can to promote the availability of future employees and that in good cooperation with rural society and the state. This is an emergency that serves no purpose in trying to identify who has greater responsibility or less; we just need to put ourselves together to resolve this. It's never been easy to get your first apartment. It was not easy here in the past, and there is little evidence that it is much more difficult to see traditional standards, such as housing prices, salary levels, and the growth environment. However, the vast lack of housing is thought - provoking, and it is also a thought - provoking thought - provoking thought - provoking question: Do we go too far as we go along after a crash with a much more rigid demand for payment, loan, and so forth, whether it turns out to be an opportunity for young people to get into the market to use similar resources as the rest of us to enjoy the years before collapse? That is one thing to consider. There have been many points that we will, of course, take with us into this discussion. Of course, a number, two, and three are dealing with the severe shortage of housing today. Thank you very much for your discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u96	A respectable president. It is appropriate that we continue to discuss our housing problem, now at the highest level. Secretary of education. This, however, is a very specific issue that focuses on the problems of the population in a steady search for housing in the capital area. We talk very often, as we did during the first conversation with the buyers but much less about this group, young people who move out of the country to learn at one of the many high schools in the capital area. There are homes at high school, schools, but they are all at high school in the country, not in the capital area. Young people of the country, and their parents know very well how difficult it can be to find housing in the capital area. Thus, the housing problem of this group will begin at 16 years of age. Sometimes it is the solution to the study by family and friends. Some parents live so well that they can even buy their child an apartment. I know it myself. At one point, my sister lived with me or with my brother while studying high school in the capital area, while my mother lives in the country. Changes made with the law on housing were guaranteed to the students'right to improve housing and special housing support. However, he was limited to an apartment building that included minimally a bedroom with a special house or a special firehouse, a special grooming, and a bath position. It is reserved for this requirement in case of a student living in dormitorys or parks associated with established educational institutions. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Whether or not, a minister will see to it how he can use himself to repair the housing problems of students in the region that attend higher schools in the capital area. The situation of those attending college has been somewhat better, especially among those who have attended the University of Iceland. Is it possible to contribute to a building or an institution of dormitory that all high school students in the capital area would share together in cooperation with e.g. A student's architecture? Has there been a review of the new general housing system to build or buy houses for dormitories in the capital area, just as has already been done by appointing new facilities for the University of Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u97	President. Hv. A senator asks about a minister's policy on building a community for high school students in the capital area. The short answer is that the person here is inclined to calm down over the years that high school students can pursue as long as possible in their own home and second place. I have had no plans to build dormitories in the capital area for high school students. The law on this subject is that the decision to build at home is a joint decision of the community of high school and the Ministry of Education and Culture. This is supported by high school law since 2008. The cost between parties is divided so that the home society has 40% expenses and the state budget has 60%. I received the information from the Ministry that the local community has not sought to build up homework for high school students in their territory. If such a request came from the local community in the capital area, we would simply review such a request in the Ministry. I reiterate that my plans have not been to build dorms for high school students in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u98	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. My conclusion is that considering that the housing issues of those who want to attend or even feel that they have to attend high school in the capital area should certainly not rule out that the minister can still work on the policy that I have agreed on, that students can run a high school test in their home. However, it is simply a fact that a considerable amount of secondary education is available only in the capital area. Therefore, if a student plans to study with him, he has no choice but to move to the capital area. The minister mentioned, and we know that the situation of many rural society has not been good, but now we have a new system, the so - called general housing system, which includes. it is considered the construction of a student's carpet. There is the Congregation of Students, who have been building houses for even the benefit of their home. fore and industry, which may take on this task. There's a budget. This year there are 3 billion who will be assigned to the establishment of the State. If all high school went together, it would be an opportunity to consider this group and make sure that we are better equipped to build our children who need to move out of the country to attend a study in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u99	President. Indeed, there is no doubt that students have to pursue various aspects of study for more specialized courses than can be offered in many parts of the country. I don't know the analysis of this, but I don't doubt that there's anything in it. I reiterate my position that I have not been at the point of promoting or starting a building at a home in the capital area, and I do not recognize a request from my rural society either. It's just like I mentioned earlier. If there are any other options, such as the rest of it. It's probably a cross-examination. I suppose, then, that rural society, or individual schools, or the school community in the capital area after incidents, calls for it, and examines the possibilities there may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u100	A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Education Minister on the policy of the Minister in the introduction to psychology services in high school. Now I know that when the minister served the health minister's office, one of his priorities was to build psychological services on health care and has been assured support for that structure. However, the availability of mental - health services or psychology services in high school is discussed especially in the government's policy declaration. It especially concerns high school students. Also, it is said that support will be added to parents with mental disorders, and psychological services will be added to the insurance system. Studies have shown that the anxiety of children and young people has increased greatly, especially in girls. It has been noted that part of this anxiety can be related to the study, that may be tested, that it may worry about intake in high school, and because of the pressures that have become present. for short study. I would like to hear how the minister envisions that these regulations can be fulfilled in the government covenant. It has been said that the most important thing is to look at, not necessarily, the government covenant, but what humans are going to do. This is simply what I'm doing here, asking the minister what he intends to do so that we can improve access to a mental - health program in high school for our children, and so hopefully respond to the problems we see have been growing and facing some mental problems of young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The candidate of the inquiry and the rest of my policy, where there is a question of a minister's policy in the introduction to psychology services in high school, is definitely the one that is based in all the fundamentals of the government's declaration of policy, which, in fact, says the United States. The following section on health care, with permission of the president: ▪ The health care center for the patient's first stop will be strengthened. Bioavailability to improve mental health care, including with psychology services at health care and high school. Children with mental problems and psychology services are being promoted to insurance systems. I would also like to mention that during the primary school program published in 2011, section 14.1 discusses the well - being of students. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ The class's well - being is linked to physical, mental, and social health. Within each school, wholesome food should be offered in accordance with official human consumption goals, thus contributing to the health of the students at school. The headmaster of high school shall consult with a health - care center near the school for health protection and the method of loyalty and shall be described in a school syllabus. I expect to be able to have a good and best cooperation with the Ministry of Health for the promotion of psychology services in high school. According to the Regulation, the main responsibility for the case rests with the health authorities. In this regard, it is almost reasonable to look to the good cooperation that has developed between high school and health care centers on the general health and loyalty practices of students in high school, and there is good reason to believe that the induction of psych services in high school can go through this course. I would like to point out at the end of my answer that in the government budget for 2018-022, there is an opportunity to promote health care in the country, to increase the number of psychologists and mental health professionals, and to strengthen its multidisciplinary service. This is exactly according to the mental - health program adopted during the last term. This was also emphasized in a presentation of the highest. The secretary of the budget recently pointed out that there would be psychological services. increased in the schools of the country. It is my firm opinion that we should take this part of our service through the medical system, through basic health care services, instead of trying to build up some specific part of health care to our country's people in something completely different from the basic system. The problem is, if we did this in such a way, it will come as a good idea that if a student moved between schools, it would be forbidden in such a system to transfer some information about him between clinics or within the service system. The combination in this field of service must be, less planning, on the basis of health care, and through it so that we can render effective service of high quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u102	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for bringing this inquiry. This matter is very important to me, and I'm going to bring in a short one. The most common way in which a changed person suffers from anxiety and depression is by making 220 of you. K. for the normal number of treatment times. Young people may not always have so much in their hands. Hence, for economic reasons, a number of young people have to give up their psychological services. One result of this is the massive death of Icelandic high school students, which is largely due to poor mental health. Even worse is the suicide rate in Iceland, with the higher in the world. The most common cause of death among Icelandic men aged 18 susceptibility to 25 years is suicide. Here, about one fifth of women at that age are measured by symptoms of depression. It is our duty here to deal with this crisis as everyone, first of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u103	A respectable president. This is a matter of discussion. I appreciate it. At the end of February, men are suffering, and men are dying to hear a headline for a discourse that I heard in the Faeroe Islands. I cut by the time I was at the top. A minister spoke of the need for such psychological services to be part of the clinic. To a degree, I agree with him. Yet, I feel very important that the posts of high school students are in high school. That is absolutely essential. I know from my own experience as a teacher to 18 years of age in Icelandic high school that students prefer to seek help within the house. [[The president calls.]] If you have to go from door to door, they are more difficult and difficult. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for bringing up this further matter of need. As the United Nations freshly remembers, a whole group of members of the Commonwealth held together a proposal for the resolution of psychological services in high school today on the Adventist. [[Up front.]] We expect a success of the situation. Sounds like it. School conditions vary. Students don't feel well. There's a very high exit we're worried about. And doing this by getting psychologists for school should improve the school environment. We used to be talking about teachers' refugees earlier today. This adds to the school environment, both as the workplace and as a place for students and teachers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u105	Mr. President. You're right, we need to discuss this. I also come from the school system, and I know from my own experience that it really matters where the ministry is serving. Thus, the teamwork needs to be done at the clinics. I agree that the transport information and other such information needs to be somewhere. Laws need to be adjusted so that people can be followed. This is also true of child protection. We too need to pay attention to it. Not only does school work when things need to leave them to child - welfare committees, and then they may walk more slowly inside the schools. I think what we are facing, whether cost or otherwise, from the students who have to attend such services, is that the people for the ministry are not available. It is not easy to recruit people to work throughout the scattered areas. It may be easier to hire people at health care in the capital area, but the same may not be possible about health care and school in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your need and good discussion. The situation today is not at all acceptable; it is far too much of our young people who are coping with much distress and illness. We also find ourselves in a place where we are far too often confronted with the consequences. We go in too late, we're not ready for it, we've had little thought about prevention too long. I think we need to start focusing on them, on the prevention, and on getting into things in the early stages. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that it may not be so simple to resolve matters all over the country. Then we can easily increase the importance of teamwork in cooperation with health institutions all over the country. I hope that it will do us well and that we will be able to improve the situation in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u107	Mr. President. I appreciate this very timely discussion. I worked in high school as a konrekor, as well as a Bible counselor, and as a teacher. True, it was a long time ago. At that time, there was virtually no psychological service for young people other than a few psychologists serving in a town. I was serving as a group of young council members in the South American District this winter. This was, in effect, the first thing to do for the young and many people there, and it would really be a great effort to advance this service. Then we come to the big problem that I think will be one of the hardest things to solve, i.e. that these services can be successful. I'll agree with the highest. Education and cultural minister that this has to go in part through existing health services, but above all, that this service will be given within the schools, not being about the need to go a long distance, either within town or between towns, to get it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the manager and the minister for this small talk that has developed and those who have participated in it. I think this is a very important matter. I'm also glad people talk something out of a solution. This may not be just about putting the position of psychologists in high school. It's also necessary, like a cot. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in earlier, to men's positions. As mentioned, there must be a measure of solution. Teamwork, even some form of telecommunication can be used. The public health, the prevention, as mentioned, is undoubtedly the major factor. That's where we're supposed to work. How can we make people feel better in our society, reducing these stress symptoms? How can we help people to cope better with the challenges and portents they face? That's where the school system should come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u109	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. It is good to find this keen interest in the Congregational for Psychological Service in high school students. I also thank the Minister very much for the answers. If I understand the Minister correctly, his policy is and his vision of the psychological service that will be built by the health care provider so that the high school psychological services will pass through the medical profession. It has been suggested that there may be a job station or the attendance of psychologists or those who engage in mental - health services at high school. As shown in the Constitution, as the minister's vision, psychological services will be made part of the step - by - step process. Denmark has a form of a mental - health service part of the dance process when people come with a reference from a family physician. A brochure from the surgeon general specifically states that all of our high school is health - related. They want to stress the health of their students, who are very positive. This should be reflected in their willingness to cooperate effectively with the health care providers. I also think it's positive. paritaprevir Bruttis Haraldsdóttir specifically mentioned telecommunications, using technology to provide non-depressive psychological services, e.g. Because of human birth, the keeping of a psychologist's entire position. If I don't forget, psychology has been one of the most popular studies at the university. It should be reflected in the possibility of doing well in human positions. It would be good to hear from the minister how he visualizes the positions that have already come or are scheduled for the clinic. [[The president calls.]] Or will the State budget further add?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u110	President. I don't know the exact contents or health secretary's plans for continuation. I assume that the determined will of the council is behind a mental - health program for the next year that we all agreed here. It answers most of the questions that have come up here, e.g. how many status values this should be, etc. The plan is to run the plan by a British model, which assumes that behind each psychiatric status, approximately Nine thousand inhabitants. This may need to be added according to events. This varies from place to place. I am strongly suggesting that we follow the course that has been set in mental - health matters. There, health care is expected to hold that thought. Of course, we can do the same with schools and schools. The school nurse is made out of the medical department. We can serve high school in a comparable way. When people discuss credit records and such, that such services are burdensome financially for high school students, I want to pay them up to 18 years of age, if they go through health care, they will be free of charge. This is what I ask people to consider when discussing certain aspects of these topics. But I believe that the Council is behind the health minister and the Ministry of Health to continue the structure adopted by the council in mental - health conferences. It includes most of the factors mentioned above, such as distant health care. At the very least, it must be kept in mind that it is also wise to reevaluate policy in new areas, such as mental - health issues, one or two years after it was taken care of. I think that's just necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u111	It is a pleasure for the president to see how many in the hall discuss this important matter. He's curious to know one thing. Many have come up in the public talk and talk about being teachers. I wonder how many teachers there are at the council. I've been asking about it and maybe I'll let you know before this meeting ends. But those in the hall already, if they could raise their hand to those who are teachers, One, two, three, four, five... [[The point is: Do you mean educated teachers or teachers?]] Those who have taught and have teachers' rights. That's what we're going to do. Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Ten, that's more than that, looks like it's mine. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u112	A respectable president. A recent report National Review stated that despite the annual promises to promote high school activities, governments have failed to achieve the results of an approved high school law in 2008. In fact, considering the course of 2014-2015, the number of students in the course of research and education has fallen by 7% if compared to the winter of 2008◯2009 and their graduations increased by 18%. During the same period, the proportion of students on track and fore course of total high school seniors has little or nothing different, but they averaged about 30◯32%. The report aims to the highest extent to the National Review Centre. Education and Culture Minister on dealing with this with three indications: 1st The need to simplify and promote the administrative structure of the job rights. 2. Making sure that there is a clear responsibility at work. 3. A higher education and employment counselling is required at a basal and high school level. The report says that at the beginning of this year, only nine courses of over 100 courses of education had been established, and five more were confirmed. A public review points to this as a serious weakness. Whether the Ministry will achieve its objective that, starting on January 1, 2018, will be taught only by validated academic instructions is a big question. Asks are also asked whether the 2008 law-changed work programme has yielded its obligation to harmonise and shape the work and occupational policies and any role of the new institution, the Institute of Education, the Institute of Education, should be involved in ensuring the quality of the education. It also points out that unlike traditional book studies, schools are not promising to graduate students who go through to school but are taking part in the study at work. As is now the study, students themselves are responsible for finding the workplace. This has not been introduced to the use of bookbooks at all levels of study. Similarly, even though it has been added only in the last two years, the workforce is still very weak. Then, when it comes to study and professional counseling, it is encouraged that students receive better guidance and help them find a proper study, which will hopefully reduce the elimination and the excessive length of study time. I also mentioned in the discussion of a teacher card, and I want to list it here, too, whether the minister has considered the prominent gender division and whether it affects some of the decrease we have seen in our professions that there are only half of the population who are interested in much of the study. [[The president calls.]] How do the Minister intends to respond to these indications from the National Reexamination?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u113	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to say that I have a vision that a job education in Iceland will be raised substantially over the next few years and years. Recent efforts have been made in the management of workers, and important projects are being carried out, but as we know, all changes are consistent and policies need to be adjusted. I will contribute my policies as further planning of policy aims. Like what? All members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament, who are well aware of the government's financial plans for the year 2018,2022, were recently submitted to the council. Three primary goals for high school are set out in the program. One is that students offer a comprehensive and progressive study. It stipulates the importance of training both younger and older students and the need for others to complete the full - time course that prepares them for a wide range of job jobs and for continued study. That's what I'm going to do. I emphasize as far as the cooperation and solidarity of everyone involved in the training program. It is clear that there is a need for careful consideration for the cooperation of industry, the Ministry, and the schools. This point is highlighted in a report published by the National Reexamination of the Education as needed. a scruple mentioned where, among other things, is pointed to failure in the management of the present system, the necessary review of the role and number of professions as well as the problem of confirming courses of education. If I recall correctly, the report says that there are 300 people involved in some form of this. It tells itself that it takes quite an unusual time to do something about it. I'd also like to mention here that when a CV is started working out in cooperation with an associate partner. Such books will be owned by each student and all his training at the workplace and at school for the entire study period. The plan is to introduce CVs in the near future. National Education Assessments have noted that the system does not respond adequately to the needs of industry and that it is overly complicated for students who have completed education to reach university levels. Privacy after high school is important because more and more sophisticated technology makes additional skills, while students themselves reach out for greater skills. Without the possibility of higher education, students may view school as a blind street and thus be less involved in such studies. The Ministry is working in cooperation with the university, high school, and the workforce's bodies to develop professional university education, so-called university education, building bridges between high school, which offer working extracurricular education and university and professional life. This work also involves establishing a degree of physical exercise and making an suggestion for its induction. In 2017, the Ministry will contribute 100 million. K. in the development of professional college projects. At the end of my speech, I'd like to mention two things that I feel are a reason for special consideration. On the one hand, according to the government's declaration of policy, there is a review of a model for sharing public contributions to high school. Government reviews on the importance of high school algorithms being used as an active management and communication tool of the Ministry and Schools and that it contributes to equality and self-respected schools. In this context, I will have the job position and possibilities considered. However, I would like to mention that there is every reason to see if it is not time to begin the preparation to review law No. 92/2008, of high school since 2008. There would also be a special consideration for the position and management of the field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u114	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the minister if he studied the Senate resolution of Porita, case No. 421 p.m. 554, which, in effect, deals with this problem today, is that one way or another, few students, and others, little interest in young people in working out. Simply put, the suggestion goes on to allow students at a high school to take a course of engineering, thus shortening to some extent. I just wanted to see if the minister had taken a look at the suggestion or if he might wish to look at it and see if he sees the same problems as the tithing in a report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u115	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I agree that there are a lot of things to think about in training. We know the problems of the more expensive schools, and we also know the debate on the calculus that has been revised for a long time. Little seems to be coming back. In the financial program, however, there are a total of 1,700 million cumulative cuts, which are reduced over the period. I don't think it's enough of this money, especially in high school. We know the stories because equipment has not been replaced for a very long time, it is not possible to use programs because computers cannot handle them, etc. There is a tremendous need for construction in high schools, especially in high school schools. There is also a need to consider payment for secular work schools. One of the things that have been discussed in the past is that students who study at work are actually getting too little to do the work that goes with it, including them. Keeping a guidebook with a student. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u116	A respectable president. My first 11 years of secular career as a high school teacher were at a school for training. They always said that there were two things to do, one to reevaluate the calculus. 18 years later, that has not yet been done. However, there was always talk that there would be a need for further work and to-do. A report by the President's permission that was mentioned earlier: Despite years of promise to advance high school education, governments have failed to produce the results when the law no. 92/2008, through high school, were agreed. They included some of them. to further research and achieve stronger cooperation between schools, workplaces, and the world's commercial world. The law was to become a high - quality job course, an open - door school way for the development of career education and study in connection with services. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't worked out. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: What are the odds that some of these promises will be fulfilled? As far as I know, the Independence Party had the Ministry of Education over the last few decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u117	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'll bet the students in my district, who host three high schools, and who offer trade and education, are concerned with the future of industrial and industrial education. This is a regular part of the field ministry, even though circumstances - including those - are different. Because it is more expensive to study than a traditional book study. However, this is considered to be of great value in maintaining both practical knowledge at home and knowledge for teaching. I believe a minister is concerned about education as such in very small units. But it is this challenge, to maintain knowledge. What does he have to say about those views?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u118	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion. This is a very important thing. There has long been a lack of scholarship and perhaps not least new courses related to the social change, e.g. related to Fab Lab Lab production in many parts of the country. In fact, I was involved in designing four high school courses for Fab Lab in my day. But nothing further has been done with such ideologies. Similarly, there has been a lack of legal follow-up. To this day, wallpapers and hatases are still legalistic and ideals, such as they have not been updated, e.g. various industrial fields, some form of amyeticronics, or self - efficient ideas or factors such as gardening, such as forestry or forestry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u119	Mr. President. It is clear that industrial and industrial studies need to be more desirable, including by improving the image of study. Perhaps they could be better met by students through the student loan system. But I think we also need to discuss only the work that will take place after study. Nine thousand apartments in the next three years must be built in order to meet the demand. The modern structure industry can hardly do that. In addition, the number of projects abroad is increasing because of improved economic status and in all likelihood, it will be more difficult to gain so far as to have a foreign workforce. It is therefore very important to increase the number of industrial workers. This could be improved by the ideals of industrial workers and, for example, can ensure that subsidies and workers pay all their bills and do not pay for the pay bag. One way to do such a thing would be to make a head contractor responsible for the fact that a subsidiary has everything to do with it. The first step, of course, may be to install such into the state's outlawy, which is a key element for personnel and remuneration to be clear as well as everywhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u120	Mr. President. I'll put a question mark on some of the changes that have taken place in industry and to-dos. The basic study has become a large part of the interest stakeholders, i.e. Industrial Association, who run industrial schools. There are public education schools, certainly. Training is increasing, not under the personal direction of an industrial master, but by business or school. In case of further development of industry and engineering, the content of the study and the training, the skills and the ability to work should be maintained, i.e. What we call professionalism. We may ensure it best by study, not focusing on the needs of an enterprise in the industry, but on a record by independent experts, industrialists, or other contracts and such training that has both internal and interconnected and under the guidance of professional workers. But there is more. It has long stood to eliminate the legalization of a number of industry. True, some are out - of - date, but others must maintain their position as a legal industry if they are to appeal to young people. [[The president calls.]] We must not forget that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u121	A respectable president. I'd like to mention the Fab Lab again. It contains basic elements of digital production technology, three-dimensional design and new methods of industry education. Today, Fab Lab has a work station in seven locations of the country. If anything else is missing. It's, for example. only one station in Reykjavík for the total number of people here. In addition, there are work stations in Akureyri and the East, Hornfjordur, Iceland, the Sea of the Year, and the West. It would be a perfect opportunity to add. This is a fundamental element of the future education and industry. There may also be some idea of making the study more serious, there's more to it. Even by performing some consistent project, perhaps not a test but a consistent project for the main course of art and projects. [[The president calls.]] It gives them greater weight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u122	V.E.G. President. When I heard it, I was filled with joy. A minister speaks of him as having a vision of advancing education. He intends to work on it, to build bridges between school points, and to promote education in the country. This is how we've been talking on holidays and days. My joy is the highest. A minister makes those words drop here on a Monday. That's why I believe something has to happen right now. We face the fact that certain industrial activities are dying out. They don't come back. That's not good. We are losing important knowledge of handwork and production that we must not lose at all. That's why I expect the highest. A minister will do something about these matters. I can only hear us agree that that that's what we all want. He gets all my support in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u123	Mr. President. We all talk at times about the importance of trade and study. But that has not worked, unfortunately, no matter what political groups have been in control, although one may now have been in power for far too long. But I hope the current minister will step up and board the sleeves and that the class will rise for signs of that subject. In the absence of the word professional people, industrialized people, far and wide throughout the country, especially in many parts of the country, this has become a real problem. Extensive schools in the country need to be competitive at high school here in the capital area. Therefore, the number of class divisions needed to be met by means of reliable financial resources and also to ensure instruments and other similar factors so that students do not continue to be sucked into the capital area and they die in the country. [[The president calls.]] It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u124	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. It's good to know how much interest there is in the seminary and industry. If we take together the queries I have today directly to the highest level. Well, the Minister of Education is obviously a great support to the Minister of Psychological Services in High Schools and for sponsoring aesthetics, as has been discussed for a long time. But all I have to do is work with you guys on dorms for high school students here in the capital area. I know the Minister that he doesn't necessarily want to have many projects going on at the same time. But when he says that he intends to stress certain assignments, I know that he will follow through on them. That's why it's very good that he's standing here on Monday, and he says he's going to stress his work and trade. Finally, I wanted to add to my discussion the fine indications that have been presented here. I've heard stories of a collapse when we saw the construction industry collapse, students simply sat and wept with their teachers because they couldn't finish their studies, not get needed work training. We also see increased specialization, so that companies specialize only in the construction industry while others are being renovated. A student who receives space simply cannot secure the training he needs. One of the ideas mentioned is whether it should be on the school's responsibility to promise students that they will graduate, that they will be sure to receive the necessary training to graduate from school. [[The president calls.]] Finally, in view of our recent validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, I would also want to consider their potential when it comes to formal education.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u125	President. Many people have been present during this discussion. It's strange to talk about Monday's not a holiday, it's a wonderful day. Full working weeks ahead. It is wonderful to have the prospect of experiencing new assignments and challenges every day and many at a time. I also thank you for this discussion and thank you for any good idea of how we can go to the work that has long been done by the government and away from which political party has been in charge each time in the Ministry of Education. All of them have their own history in connection with it. I believe that we will together change to the point that any content is contained in the declarations that the Council has repeatedly made, as well as the school system, to provide more support for the work and to work. It's about time. Regarding what is asked here, whether I went in and studied Pirata's suggestion about training: No, I haven't. I admit it. But I expect all such ideas to be developed and put in as food for the work started in preparation for implementing these ideas for projects involved in education and education. I'd like to mention in particular, due to the words of the last speakers, there's nothing to worry about. We have the ability to do good work, Icelanders, and we have shown it over the years. When joy goes down the heart of my fellow councilman from the Northeast District because of my words, we too will be able to do it. I'm here to mention a common acquaintance, a person who has worked on furniture; he sees an opportunity to send students to foreign lands to get knowledge and bring it home. Not necessarily all is obtained by merely cultivating the home garden. We also at times need to seek understanding, knowledge, and skills over the Atlant Psalms.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u126	A respectable president. I hope that I have a good share in this discussion because it is extremely important. It is specifically stated in the Government's policy declaration that election legislation should be overcome with the idea that it will become simpler and more equal in terms of vote. Then I'd like to ask the minister: How do the Minister intends to work with all classes that the election laws will become simpler and more equal in votes? This will be the key. As the next questions will be discussed, there will be some categories of changes in general. Another question: What does a minister think is more equal in terms of vote? This need especially to be considered, for the current government has a greater part of the Parliamentary situation, despite the lesser part of its votes. What is even more surprising is that the total number of government groups has fewer votes behind them than the total government groups. For example, the last government had only about 50% votes behind itself but, for some strange reason, with about 60% members of Congress. The more powerful things, as he was called, had an extremely weak authority. This point, if anything, is what needs to be fixed. It is not possible for such a great difference in commissions according to the proportion of votes and the proportion of candidates, let alone the majority power could be reached by a smaller percentage of votes. The present government has majority power and a smaller part of vote. It's like the team that scored fewer limits would have won the game. Third question: What do the Minister think the Minister needs in his campaign law? Does the simplicity focus on the voter, class, candidates, security of elections, data processing, party-eater distribution, voter-separation? You see, the words of the Treaty are something that everyone should be able to agree on. But what is behind the words? What is the common understanding of the laws on what this means? A fourth question: The number of elections that the work group for re-election suggested would be changed to the point of turning off a bill produced by the group in August.? If so, what factor? This question has to do with the simplicity of the work force because the setting of a bill for re-election along with a report is not necessarily simple from every point of view. It's a 300-page bill and a report. Despite all the questions, however, the time to answer is few. So I would like to ask a minister and others to prioritize their answers in a row of questions. Teamwork with all categories and votes is a matter of utmost importance. I'm hoping for a good participation. This is, I believe, one of the most urgent cases the General shall have to deal with during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question, of course, must be very close to everyone in this room. Please refer to the government's declaration of policy. It is true that this shows that as for continuing work, the Constitution will continue to be discussed. In this connection, it will be accompanied by the thought that the change in the ideal order will be guided by the experience of the last changes. The last changes were made by a change in the Constitution in 1999, when the terms were reduced and the changes increased. The Constitution continued until 1934, with great interest in the campaign and election arrangements. After that, more detailed regulations were stated in the constitution. 1999 was the year when the Constitution was made slightly more flexible and the legislation was entrusted with an export, e.g. the number of candidates in each district taking into account the minimum in question. That's an excellent arrangement for me, i.e. Switch the Constitution and then the general legislation of elections. There's two things in this. When people ask me about more equality in terms of votes, the problem may be in the system we have today: It is based on an inconsistencies, while votes are assumed to be equal between classes. In discussions with these matters, people have mentioned the system as being omnipotent and complicated. I'm not ready to agree with it, though we, the players in this field, i.e. on the domain of the d'Hondt Order, you may need to review every four years exactly how it works. I don't think it's a fair system and rule because it's saying it's completely incomprehensible or impossibility. It in itself is somewhat transparent and clear and not unusual. You may wonder, " How can I make sure that everyone in this country has one vote or that it will be at least equal to the constitution, but the Constitution allows for a possible inconsistencies in this, i.e. that the switch may be so that some voters have double the value of others. That is certainly the case today. In a recent decision by the national government after the last election, it was at least confirmed that it was not yet a reason to change the order that is today, which has been done after 1999 when a large number of senators have been changed between elections. How could more equality be achieved? It is only in my mind that there are three factors to consider: making the country one outstanding example. That, in itself, would be the simplest. Alternatively, the number of terms could be increased to the extent of equality, e.g. ... witha mono-culture. There's another possibility. Of course, it would also be possible to think that we had only six terms, all of which were exactly the same size so that the boundaries would be cut down. In general, it is proper to remember that if the election arrangement is changed, we will have the constitution, especially 31 paragraph. Hers, and then we have a U.S. election law in general, as well as a song of elections to the government and elections. It is mainly a law of elections for the Generals to foretell an arrangement in this matter. That I know there are many opportunities to change the campaign without changing the constitution by changing the votes of elections to the Council. There is a report to the President of the Generals, who is the president of the Generals, and to the council itself. Of course, it will come on the council's table and for Congress treatment. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it is required in a constitution that all changes in the campaign arrangement need to be enjoyed by a greater proportion at the Council or by two thirds of Parliaments. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that the council has a lot of access, and there must be a great deal of reconciliation, wide solidarity, of the changes in the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u128	A respectable president. First, I want to say that it is impossible in a multi-class system to completely rule out that certain groups could receive a greater proportion of members of the Parliament with less votes behind them. However, this can be greatly reduced. I'd be supportive of that. The course of restoration in these matters is clear. It says, by permission of the president: To ensure that the voting rights of all people of the country will be equally independent of their home, it is necessary to make needed changes. A vote as well as a vote is needed in a democracies state. This has been true of the government covenant, as it has been said. If anyone asks me what more equality means to me, it is as much equal as the Constitution allows. I felt that Viktor Orri Valgarðsson's bill and some other senators provide a proper approach. I did not see fit to become a cohesor there because of certain technical solutions, and I also thought it best that, as members of the Parliament, we would give the work that will take place in hopes that it would be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u129	Mr. President. There's a lot of things to fix in election law. For example, there would be a simple change that would help us move from d'Hondt's rule to Sainte-Sainte-Laguës, which is most widely used in the north. There is also a point in the distribution of a replacement party that follows a so - called bimolecular apportional order, by the permission of a president, which might be called a bifocal distribution. Balinski proved at the time that there is only one algorithm that fulfills this distribution. We do not use it in the election, in part because Balinskir's method was too complex. I kind of agree, it's a little complicated. However, it guarantees a unique growth in sweets, which we are not sure has always been able or always to endure in all cases. There are many other minor adjustments that might be made, but maybe one thing we should consider is that a simple cross in a box is perhaps rather a simple approach to collect information from the voters about their actual will. [[The president calls.]] We may want to consider some kind of priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u130	A respectable president. I feel like I'm stepping into other people's parties when I'm following a Smári Mccarthy in a pitt after he's quoted various campaign experts, especially because I just wanted to ask the Minister about the election procedure. The minister mentioned suggestions that lie with the Presidency Committee, which includes the Management Board. that an electronic constitution I think is very important to start running a campaign to be as good as possible. And then there is the idea that has been mentioned in the context of how we can coordinate the implementation of an election between elections. Governments are not easily equipped to cope with the task of organizing elections. Is there any reason to promote the direction and help of the Ministry, or is it something that should be the cooperation project of the Ministry and Congress? Is there anything like that in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u131	A respectable president. I miss several members of the council in this discussion. But I wanted to say something about the highest. A minister on the solution to an equal situation in which she named one outstanding example. Yes, that is definitely a solution. It's not a mono-culture thing. It's not a long way from now on. It's totally the other way around. The person who gets most votes could be the same category in all elections and thus get all members, not with more votes, let alone 100%. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek says that this cannot be completely excluded, so that's not entirely true. It is quite possible to set conditions such as that there is a certain legislator who actually disappears and falls to another category if the majority becomes in control with a smaller section of votes. There's nothing far from the equalist. One idea of what could be done to further achieve the 90th rule is to have more normal people. This has led to the suggestion that everyone is an equalist. For the changes from 1999, that was when 5% of the rule came in. It damages some of these speech methods that we use like the d'Hondt rule. It does not assume that there is a threshold, a 5% threshold, which leads to members of Congress who have a vote for groups with multiple votes. It's that limp I'm talking about right now. An independent party is now with three members more than he should be included in a vote. There's something wrong with it, and we have to deal with it. [[Foreground on: No.]] Three more senators. I understand if there is one or a other, but three, it's simply too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u132	A respectable president. I thank you for the talk that is helpful and will definitely take place here several times during this terms, and perhaps for every reason. I can agree with that. A client asked about, of course, there is a possibility of increasing the number of equations at the cost of terms. It can be done by a simple change in the election law, with the request of more part at the council. In that case, they may be looking for less - than - the - lottery lottery where the equations land. I would like to mention that there is a possibility that this system today is the best system we could have if you want to have the goals this system is intended to achieve, which are some kind of local impact. They want to protect it, but not to be divided. So I keep some defense against this system that we have today, although only because there was no one else who did it in this discussion, now we need to be careful about it. But finally, I want to mention that the work team report is in place, it returned to her last fall. It offers excellent tips on the implementation of elections. It contains, for example, Showing that we must start making time adjustments as soon as the next fall, we need to make changes so that an extracurricular agreement will not begin before the deadline. It shows the benefits of having an electronic program. Of course, humans can have different opinions on this matter. And it also highlights the need for us to change our actions on a vote at a meeting, including a meeting. Based on SE indications performed here during election management. [[The president calls.]] All I believe is that the whole world of Congress will meet together for that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u133	Mr. President. On April 30, 2009, at the General Assembly of Congress, it was adopted as such by the president's permission: The General concluded to hide the government of Iceland to set up a research agency on foreign and security. By permission of the president, a report with her says: ▪ The development of the district of Asia, particularly in China, which is on its way to becoming an economic empire, as well as the growing efforts of Russia to regain its former influence in international affairs, will have a wide bearing on the development of world affairs. Then the shape of the U.S. State and Defense Policy following the intervention of a new president in January will have a significant impact on international cooperation, including the United States. Within the Atlantic Community and the United Nations organization, and in the United Nations That was 2009, Mr. President. If that was true of them, it is ten times better now, in view of the fact that a new president has been taking over in the United States and that both China and Russia have made much more apparent. There's a lot of good in this report, including... and abroad, e.g. in the North countries, operates research institutions that specialize in international affairs and in their development. We have an International Language Institute at the University of Iceland. It was founded in 1990, but it actually doesn't work as a research agency that such a thing or did not, that I know best. There is good reason to consider whether such a research facility is inappropriate. So I ask the highest. Minister of State... how to establish the basis for the establishment of an independent research site in foreign and security areas, as per this synonym. Often needed, but now is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We agree fully on the importance of being well kept up with knowledge and experience in foreign and security areas, and it is very important to contribute to a meaningful discussion on this important matter. Especially is this true today when there are many challenges in the international system and in the same way, opportunities for the security of our Icelanders are great. It is enough to include EU discharges, development of European cooperation, protection in Europe's security, climate and so forth. What subjects ask anyway. Therefore, the senator's first comment was that the government of Iceland passed a synopsis on the establishment of a foreign and security agency to a transnational Parliamentary committee established by Congress resolution in 2011 to prepare national security policy for Iceland. There was the resolution referred to by the senator. In a letter to the Committee that showed the strength of the management of Bjarnadóttir Bearnad, then U.S. senator, who was appointed representatives of all classes at the council, including Jónsdóttir Jondótir, representing the movement, along with many other fine attacks. According to members of Congress, the committee did not believe that there was a basis for setting up such a research site, especially for financial reasons. The committee said that the first episode would have to be based on the knowledge and experience in the past and that it would be the closest thing to looking to the university and educational community. The letter stated that when circumstances allow and money are available, it would be appropriate to reexamine a new institution of such a expertise. At the same time, the Commission felt that it was urgent to promote a more open and informed discussion on foreign and security matters and that it was best to use the national security policy for that purpose. The committee also correctly pointed out that a wide framework of national security could also arise by an open and democratic discussion of the sect. Last assembly approved a law on national security Councils that were unreceptive and in great political agreement. I suppose the entire body of Congress would agree with me that the law and the transnational process that shaped national security was a very important step that would have the primary objective of promoting this series on the land. Now the National Security Council will start work. As to the senator's request, it is clear that the National Security Council will be very effective in these matters. In Comb 4. The law on National Security Council therefore makes it clear that cooperation should be made with the university community, the thinkers and the media, for open and democratic discussion of national security, and for the development of education and information on that subject. Thus, taking into account the predecessors given to the committee at its time and the results of the transnational work that has taken place during the past few years have made a successful landing in these matters. Besides, because I agree with you. A senator with this request, I'd like to use this opportunity to mention the extensive work we have in the State Department to explore in a comprehensive way our future interests. In this process, all stones are being rolled and see how foreign services can better use their tools and tools to protect their nation's interests and their commercial interests. An outstanding aspect of this work is how to make better use of the much experience and knowledge of foreign affairs that have gathered in the foreign service to efficient policy development, as well as how to share this experience and knowledge with the public and stakeholders. This is exciting work. I am confident that it will produce results and further support to the role of the National Security Council as well as to achieve my goals. A senator obviously agrees that when we cross policy on our security and interests, it is based on the best knowledge. But this does not happen automatically. That's what we need to consider. As I mentioned in my answer, we have both in the educational community and also in the foreign service with great knowledge, but it could be communicated to all, especially to the common people. That is one of the suggestions given by the work I referred to in the field of foreign service that I expect us to see in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u135	Mr. President. Thank you for that good answer. It is interesting to hear of the work being done in foreign service. Now I know that foreign service does a very good job, but often it's a bit of money, as we've talked about earlier in terms of, e.g. The embassy and the number of employees in the embassy. I still want to mean, first the highest. A minister mentioned the need and, if given the circumstances, the need is better, and the situation in society is rather good. Now there may be a reason why instead of setting up a special agency to provide just research resources to the World Health Organization so that they can perform this role in some way. Now, there's a very good job there, and there's good reason for us to go further, perhaps especially in the light of the changes that are taking place in climates or in those that are linked to the north and so forth, not to mention the big, complex political issues that are related to what I mentioned earlier; Russia, China, the United States, and other empires and a variety of small powers. The National Security Council is a fine thing. True, it will be made up of what I know. I'd like to know if there's anything that's going to happen in the near future. I think it's the highest. Prime Minister, who handles it, I'll be corrected, if not. Certainly it is an opportunity for interest. So ask: If all our research on foreign affairs is actually based on knowledge from abroad and the knowledge of a local authority that is really just reading foreign research, are we being careful enough? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u136	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator, the National Security Council, presides at the top. Prime Minister. In the two minutes, I'm going to go over what I thought was wrong. A senator would be inside my second answer. Of course it's so that we'll never be in that place like other countries, I don't talk about the superpowers, when it comes to intelligence. What I've been missing, however, has surprised me, just so I'm discussing business, is how bad we have information. I can give you an example of how if we look, for example. Our main export countries then stand in Holland. We're not moving to Holland. There's an order in Rotterdam and we don't know where it's going. When we're taking care of our interests and plan, it's not very comfortable to have that kind of information. It's been known we didn't know this for a long time, but it hasn't been done anything about it. This is one of the things I've been dealing with since I took over my ministry because I feel completely unacceptable not to have accurate information in these important matters. There are other factors I might mention that I will try to inform the council and the nation when it is prepared, since the discussion has often been unconcerned. Even when I'm a minister and call for information, I haven't been able to get them because they're not there. However, there is also a great knowledge that I feel is a matter of how we get involved so that Congress and the public, the media, and others can have access to it. This does not always focus on creating new institutions or such, in this case, on much of the foreign service organization. On the other hand, if we are going to do a lot more work, that will, of course, call for more money. This is the basic. If we are to make decisions, whether in these important matters or in others, it must be based on the right information. [[The president calls.]] There's work to do, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u137	Mr. President. I'm gonna ask that question to the highest level. Economic and economic Ministers on whether to initiate or plan an analysis of the impact of the investments and implementation in individual articles as well as the impact of the national environment and the capital area to be identified in the members of the Committee on a greater proportion of budgetary proposals for fictitation of financial policy by 2017/22022 and how important it is to do so. It is, in my opinion, that economicism and financial programmes do not respond sufficiently to the views of the country. I think it is very important that those views be kept in mind when we are setting priorities for public investment projects. Action can be directed in ways that the less affected areas experience economic growth and expansion. In many places it has been that a contraction has been, or even a resolution. We can manage projects by e.g. In some respects, public members of the community are seriously weighed down in the big context. Today, we are facing very large projects that are almost exclusive in the southwest corner, i.e. The construction of a new land hospital and a huge expansion of the Cheflavík Airport, both very necessary. But we need to consider also what we can do elsewhere that may be less effective, we can even get better offers, etc. People all over the country are making a job, for example. to rural areas and to smaller rural areas that even deal with poor transport, there are not three-phase electricity, etc., where small funds are placed in road, port, and airports during the financial program we are considering today, around 5 billion per year, which is about 5 billion per year. The same as we on a budget board saw us being moved to add in December to respond to our desperate need. Clearly, then, more is needed. A careful consideration of the right to offset the expansion of the big capital area may need to be given to significant investments in a country where people may not be able to find in general interest or in a very high interest level. I also want to pray to the highest. Ministers to explain to me a little what a financial recommendation makes and says that there is a strong recession in investments between 2017 and 2018, which is unexplained by the board's opinion. We left greens have felt that this policy is too conservative because there are no special attacks to increase income to any extent in order to sustain the infrastructure we have so repeatedly discussed and the government is in irons at the end of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Both the question and the tip of a greater portion of the legal committee are important and interesting. Clearly, a collection in the capital area does not necessarily lead to the thawing of the West and the soiling of the West does not dry up unemployment in the Deepvogur. Not all investments are equal when it comes to the thawing effect. Thus, monuments built up by foreign workers do not increase as much as other investments. A foreign labour force is then used to reduce tension on the market and helps to help the European Economic Areas by free diffusion of people between countries. When rescue helicopters are bought from abroad, the impact on investments is negligible. The short answer is, however, that the Ministry has not yet been able to analyze the factors asked. It is sanctified because it is complex, but certainly one of the projects worth considering. As previously noted, it is very important that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has access to an economic model to help calculate the impact of various possible scenarios and that it would be good to include the national impact of economic tension. When preparing financial policies and later financial programs for 2018-22022, the investment plans of public citizens were considered somewhat, which are referred both to the State, to the community, and to the public. Concomitantly, the potential effect of these effects was assessed. This analysis provides the basis for the decisions made on the writing of these cards, the plan, and the policy. In this way, organized investments have a significant impact on the economy and the space of the State for investments. Then, in this context, it is appropriate to point out that in accordance with local societies due to the financial programme, there are requirements for assessing the needs of investments and the plans of public members and close partnerships over short and long periods of time. The methodology for this assessment referred to in the agreement is still to be developed, and the work is on its way no more. The Ministry's work is to support the development of a national interest model where different scenarios can be viewed and evaluated, although for some time, the impact on national development could not be examined. Then it is clear that it might be considered whether to improve cooperation with economic institutions, e.g. Economics, with the objective of analysing the impact of decision-making on economic development. In his review of a fund plan published by the weekend, financial advisers pointed to the lack of adequate sensitivity of the fundamental budget models. in not taking into account the impact of the plan itself. So there's a lot of work ahead of setting up a system for thorough planning and forecasting, and many urgent projects that require reform from the Ministry and its institutions. This work will be carried out in the months and years to come. Regarding the recession of projects as long as possible. Consider also the case of a member of the body of elders. to energy save Reykjavík has decided to gather projects next year since the previous target of about 8 billion dollars. Nationalization will complete a great deal of work over the period, and there are no others, and there are other factors to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u139	A respectable president. In financial, financial, and in the majority of homes, it is said to direct projects to areas that have not experienced the expansion. But the highest. The secretary of finance says it's a very difficult thing to calculate, but it's still a policy, and the work is very close. I'm interested in learning about it, even though the work is not working well enough, perhaps something is there, what factors are mainly affecting the quality of the area's needs and the low level of expansion. What if the same model is set so that it becomes clear that even here on the southwest corner is the greatest potential for building? Should the model be set so that it is not suitable for the southwestern corner, although the model found says so?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u140	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is good to know in itself that this is to be done even if a dose is passed. You see, it's just the way it is, like the highest. Minister said the investments aren't all the same. Therefore, the diagnosis is very important. I feel that there will be a relatively short time before, because it is difficult to plan to agree with a plan where investments will not be timed, as shown in financial advice, that it is important that they are timed according to the economic outlook and projects so as not to increase economic tensions. That's why I think it's one of the priorities. I also agree, as indicated and have been showing us in comments to the financial program, that we do not have enough diagnostic devices to evaluate whether this is or something else, i.e. The national model being built. Some kind of model we have to build in order to put our arms around it, i.e. See if it's in the country or whatever it is we're trying to reach out for. I don't think we can make it so that the budget is somehow covered by all committees without the possibility of this, that we'll see in advance how we distributed these projects. This is very important because we know the need for the infrastructure. I certainly hope that a minister can inform us about this relatively soon. So, with the contractions, that these two companies that he mentioned and some others are undoubtedly there, they should give us the opportunity to expand our investments even more in the scattered settlements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u141	Mr. President. Of course, there are a number of factors that can be considered as to what goes into such foods. Like what? A senator pointed out that there are factors to be viewed. I can quickly see two factors that can be of great importance in terms of the profit of individual projects, e.g. if we had statistics at the level of land oers compared to a cost plan because we see that in the capital area, people there have been at the lowest offer, even a double cost plan, while others are on the other side of the country. Of course, there is also a need to take into account the practicality of the project. It must be done in a broad context because it is not always about dollars and change, but it can be of great importance to the social effects of various projects. Regarding the second talkBjarkey Olsen? Gunnarsdóttir I have to say that I agree with the fact that this is very important. But I don't think we're gonna have this model ready this spring day, but that doesn't make any difference because it's very important that people know these things and they try to evaluate it to the best of their ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u142	A respectable president. Often, people are encouraged to choose with their wallet as a means to influence the way the world develops. We have a lot of wallets, but together we have a few huge pensions, which are meant to preserve and make a shared amount of money, which will ensure a carefree lifetime night in the future. The government has something to say about the contribution of the pension fund. For example, on July 1, the next, a law that applies to the investment policy of the pension is used by law. It is, in fact, there. stated that pension funds set moral standards in investments. The legislation of the Lawgiver was to emphasize that the funds should not only consider that an ice-cold fruit requirement in the Excel documents, but that their investment policy must contribute to the improved economy and improved standard of living in the country to the future. Only in this way can it be said that the pension fund maintains its first course in honor of investment policy by permission of presidents: The pension fund should be guided by the interests of funds partners. There are, of course, a variety of interests. Iceland has validated the United Nations Paris Convention as a factor in strengthening future interests, global response to the threat of climate change. One of the activities committed to a Member State is Article 2. The contract, with the permission of the President, is that: a fiscal flow is compatible with a process towards low greenhouse gas emissions and the development of climate change resistance. To this end, in recent years so - called fiscal emissions have grown. Salutation, by permission of the president, is an investment, i.e. This is the business of investors, the disposal of assets in certain companies or sectors. In the context of human climate change, this changes the nature of the situation according to the development of enterprises as biofuels. In addition to being a positive step in combating climate, this is a wise course. The Paris Convention, which centers on other threads of making investments in fossil fuels unfashionable, shows that having money in black industry does not depend on long - term investments. So I would ask three questions to the minister and ask if he would agree that by turning as soon as possible to save, moving from black to green investments, the funds of life were not only betting on a more secure investment for a long time but also making sure that funds are allowed to enjoy the evening of their life in a beautiful and green future, where they have been able to work against the climate, since the oil economy is terminal and they do not need to withdraw the pension fund. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry that attracts the ethics and investment policy of the pension fund. In the beginning, I strongly believe that pension funds should have moral and moral standards for their investments. They are to make sure that the companies they invest in good governance and that they do not misuse the public's well - being by their conduct, as well as bring good fruitage to owners. In this regard, the nature of the matter often comes up according to opinion. Then I'll go to questions or something. A senator, whom he did not finish but had informed me before this discussion. First of all, ask me why. A senator if he needs to change the rules on the investment policy of the pension fund in law No. 129/1997, in view of the demand that the investment of pension funds serve climate targets and objectives for sustainability, and if so, how. It is to say that the Council has already decided, by law No. 113/2016, the related insurance rights and the business of pension funds, that pension funds set moral standards for investments. As noted in the economic and business committee's assessment of the situation, the closer cutoff of such rules is expected to be on the hands of each fund. The current legislation helps guide long - term policy to create a long - term climate goal in the shape and implementation of the dierent investment policy. Clearly, the aims of sustainability are guided. In this regard it is proper to assume that the National Association of Pensions was a course in cooperation with Social Schools, where Lára Jóhannsdóttir was involved in the community responsibility of companies and institutions. Second, if I consider changing laws so that investments in pensions meet the demands of respect for the general human rights and rights of children in particular. I agree with the above committee article that it is important that pension fund investment policy reflects a general moral standard. I suppose the public's expectations and particularly the funded funds will be achieved by the discovery of human rights criteria and investments. However, here I would like to state that I do not believe that a pot is broken in these materials, as it stands today. At the latest, we ask why. A senator to me whether I consider it a reason to set up the board of pensions. The law obligates them to a pension fund to set moral standards in investments, and these criteria are part of their investment policy. Investment policy is signed by the management and executives of the Pension Fund, sent to the SEC and published in annual accounts. So, in view of the monitoring of the FME, I don't think that there is a need for such advice to be established. Since my pensions have responded well, I think it's time to wait and see for the moment. Together, I believe that approach to current tracks is appropriate. Common laws require respect for human rights and environment. In addition, the law recommends that pension funds set their own standards. It is their management, funds, media, and UNEP to help establish moral standards that provide clear guidelines for the moral content of investments and that the standards will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u144	A respectable president. I thank you for the good inquiry and I would like to make a note about the Council of Morality, i.e. that it would be possible to achieve more fully the goals of the fund's work and investments. I'd like to add a question about cross-creants and property in competitive companies we've been discussing here at the council. It's very unnatural for them to have a pension fund in all competitive companies so that they have the company and other competitions with it. It actually destroys the market. I usually find this very interesting, because a few years ago, a very moral question was raised about the oil reserve in Norway when he invested in weapons production. At least I wouldn't want to hear that my pension was stored somewhere in a factory where weapons were being produced to kill people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u145	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. A senator for the hearing. Because it is known as the Norwegian oil reserve, it has been known, as it may seem, to set a policy to reduce investments in the coal industry, for it has just learned that it does not serve the long - term objectives of the people behind the fund to support this polluted industry and, in fact, not to produce weapons. It is the development of the Norwegian oil Fund, from various universities and rural areas, and from pension funds in the countries around us. It is a process that is due to the need for it to take place. I'll say the highest words. Ministers that the public's expectations for the funds are that they invest in non-secular industry is reprehensible or that cause gross pollution. The problem, however, is the one, like the other. paritaprevir And the Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson came in, that the light is lacking altogether. Whether we need a special adjustment to do it or what it is, we don't know, whether it's an Allied body, as a cashmate or as just a few citizens in the country, how pensions account for their investments, especially abroad. This is a hundred thousand and fifty - eight thousand million dollars. In foreign lands, 20% of the Department of Pension, which is at the highest. Ministers are expected to plan on increasing to relieve the pressures of the national economy. But this must not be done in decomposing industry. It can't be in weapons production. There's no place in a company where we couldn't be proud after 50 years and say, "Here's a business that my pension fund gave me. [[The president calls.]] So I put a question mark on the fact that you can somehow trust the pension fund for just driving it on a vacation without some kind of surveillance in the event that this is done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-04-24-58.u146	A respectable president. I don't think there was any difference between those who spoke here with these inquiries. All of us want our shared funds to be used in a healthy and good business. No one is particularly interested in supporting contaminated structures, in promoting arms production or child labor, so we've got a few things to do when we look into companies. Well, about what? paritaprevir Björn Leví of Gunnarsson's bear on the right to include in many companies in a competitive market, I think the main issue is if the pension fund is unable to participate in any of these companies' administrative activities. However, there has been great pressures on the pension and on their domestic investments, so they may have felt pity for them up to this point. But the oceans have now been cleared, so there is no need for future events. I agree with that too. Ingi Ian Jónsson's saying that there must be a benefit in each pension fund. It's public funds. Like members of Parliament and Ministers, they are citizens of public funds. That's what we're supposed to know. In fact, I think we know very often how to do that.
