ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u1	The president wants to inform you that a letter has been received from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation to give a written answer to a covering query. 270 on housing, from Viktor Orri Valgarðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u2	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir is the General Assembly for the Bright Future, a party which in the campaign had its policies to lay the foundation for all of the company's decisions. Well, already it's a good time. A member of the Environment Minister's Office seems to have turned his back on the basics of the category and election promises and adopted plans for activation in the central highlands at the expense of the environment and its vitality for future generations. This is a minister who seems to be weak and devoid of control of the environment, not only when it comes to the protection of the highlands, but also to plans for tenfold of fish farms in the sea along the shores of our country, at the same time as in our neighboring countries, e.g. In Sweden, fish farming is being banned in the sea because of its serious environmental damage. Why don't the Minister stop this? When we act as if there were no generations after our generation or that their well - being is not what we are here used to defend, what are we on? There is a seven - generation rule in the peace of Iroquois clans of North America. It says that no decision - whether in personal life, in the state or in the industry - is justified if it adversely affects the quality of life for the next seven generations. We should take that approach as an example. In a country where there is little or no unemployment, where workers need to be brought in to do the jobs they need to do, where there are all signs of smallpox in the economy, where electricity is produced more per person than in any other European country, the activation process is still being developed. In Iceland's central highlands will be severely reduced by gale and, among other things, ruin a precious area west of Lake Bay and the low value of Lakeh earth's parks. I challenge the highest. Minister not to fall into the compromise pit and not to waive the quality of the future generation for the short - term profits of few people. I challenge the public to large areas of the East and to inform the Environment Minister who you consider to be the real value and demand that a minister keep his word and protect Iceland's highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u3	V.E.G. President. I wanted to have a place to talk to. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, and he responded to my request. I want to thank him for that. Today, there is a Department of Money, but it operates under the law of the Federal Republic of Iceland. The Commission will decide on the growth and other control systems of the money policy at least Eight times a year. Iceland's currency is $1, 000, and the money policy board operates accordingly. During the days, a three - man assignment was established in connection with the reevaluation of the money conference committee. It can only be seen that her work should be based on a dollar as the future currency in Iceland. So I was surprised to hear the highest sound. This weekend the minister of finance claims that the U.S. dollar was not a suitable currency for the nation and that in many ways it works against the interests of the major sectors and the homes of the country. He said to form a word-for-the-word word on the Riding Line, with the permission of a president: ▪ There are many people who have said: " A dollar is good enough for us. ' But she just doesn't do it all the time. Now, for example. Certainly she does not adapt to the needs of the fishing road, nor does she adapt to the needs of tourism even. To say that, I would like to hear the point. paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszeks has the highest reputation. Secretary of finance and member of the council. Does the senator agree that the dollar isn't Iceland's future currency? If so, would it not be necessary to change the job description of the project management in connection with reevaluation of money policy? What currency does the senator consider to be an ideal candidate for Iceland for the future? And finally: Is the senator's opinion that a coin other than a dollar would have been more convenient to get back foothold from the 2008 collapse of the bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to hear this inquiry. I'm a Europeanist, and I'm an EU nose. I want to apply for participation in the European Union at a previous vote. At that vote, I'll vote by Iceland applying for membership, then I want us to go out and finish up. I think it's very likely that after that, I'll have a vote by walking in the European Union and then becoming in the European Union. I will live happily ever after in the arrangement that is there. It's my opinion that Iceland's future currency is the euro. In view of all the information I've said, the European Union comes as a natural package with all its advantages and weaknesses. According to this, it is my opinion that the best future currency for Iceland is the euro through the European Union. Of course, we live under a political reality. The reality is that in this chamber, it is not a majority inspection; it is not even the opinion of a very large group of people. That's why there are solutions to Iceland that are not prepared for as much political uncertainty as I may have. That is why we went to Reunion for the campaign that a system policy has to be adopted through the so-called Cub Council. It's one of the solutions that the currently active task force is going to review and he's going to examine the future currency subsidies in Iceland. I'm glad you're here. For financial ministers' words, he is fully able to answer for them himself. But I can agree with his entire statement, I think those hundred years of Iceland's independent currency story didn't necessarily have a successful story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u5	President. Piratar and I have been very busy criticizing Generalism, and I'm going to keep our lines busy here. Last week there were no meetings, just committees. On the day when a meeting was held in some committee because of a lack of projects, it became necessary. In other words, there were no political issues ready for which the committee could have discussed. I'm putting a big question mark on such a project and allow me to quote page 26. Congress, which deals with the role of the Synod Committees of the Generals, by permission of the President: Despite the fact that the council did not specifically refer to it, at any time it is permitted to discuss matters under its language. I ask, " Where are you taking the initiative? ' While the committees are waiting for matters to enter the board of committees, are they to stare out into the sky? Why did the highest talk occur? legislation committee, e.g. not how to start a spectacular effort in the construction of social apartments? You see, there's an emergency in that situation, so I'll inform those who may have missed it. Why did the State Department not discuss all the thefts that take place in the large world rather than canceling meetings? Similarities that affect us Icelanders in a direct or indirect way? In this context, there is an unpredictable president of the United States, an extremely dangerous president of Turkey, who is about to pass through the weak democracy of the Turks dead, as well as the rise of the fasian fish in Europe, Baltrexit, etc. Constant committees should not wait for the matter to come to them. [[The president calls.]] They are to take the initiative if time allows and they are to look to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u6	Last night, I looked at the Spotlight at the RUS. There, Þórdís Elva Þorvaldsdóttir and Tom Stranger came and discussed their assignment For forgiveness. That certainly made me think, and many questions arose. What can I and others do? Generals have made it necessary to reduce the risk of sexual violence, long - term violence, and the harmful effects on victims as well as dodoers? It's a social ill that seems to be incredibly common. There are many tolerances and doers. Education and open discussion are key factors. We must have the courage to discuss normal communication. Silence is not acceptable. You can't do anything for as long as they don't say no. As young ones are mature, this code of communication needs to be discussed when it comes to sex and sexual relations. We live in a world where pornography and the subsidiary of women have harmful effects. This needs to be followed. Most important, all - especially young people - are informed that the reality displayed on their computer screens does not mirror real normal communication in sexual relations. As lawgivers, we need to stay alert to and respond to changes in society. We need to make rules, for example. about so - called digital sexual abuse, which needs to go further. Our traditional attitude is too male, and it spreads through legislation and sexual violence in which the most people are women. Madam President. On our shoulders what? All council members have the obligation to support the law's aim to reduce sexual violence as much as possible and to preserve sexual freedom, female freedom, and privacy all at once. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u7	Madam President. Today, in March 21, an international day against racial discrimination and hatred is an international day. This year, the United Nations is particularly concerned with counteracting prejudice, hatred speech, and hatred committed by refugees. The task is urgent, for as we all know, prejudice and hatred against this vulnerable group are at a high level, once again resulting in widespread discrimination and violence against people who are fleeing at home and abroad. President. As a member of the Council of the European Parliament, I met with Christian Åhlund, the European Commission chairman of racial prejudice and intolerance, in order to discuss the main priorities and challenges of the committee. Similarly, we had the opportunity to discuss the recent patrol to Iceland and the uncanny criticism that the committee has suffered on the side of a radio story and its spokesmen that the committee broke the human rights of the radio station. The chairman agreed that freedom of speech is certainly an important right, but radio stations do not enjoy human rights. Freedom of speech is important and, in fact, an integral part of a democratic society, but words have consequences. So we are responsible for the words we use to describe people. It is no coincidence that Europe, and Iceland including, look away, while thousands are drowning on the continent's shores. We use the words to justify our actions. We call them horrified, we talk about mobilization, we call them illegal immigrants, but we never thought of calling them Europeans who make such names. We justified their treatment, deportation in the shelter of the night, complete indifference to their deportation, by calling them fugitives'applications for protection without help. But they have all the names, the people we treat like this, the names of them, Amír and Eze and Abdul Hamid, to be removed. [[The president calls.]] This day is applied to those whom we choose to be demeaning by our words based on prejudice and hatred.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u8	V.E.G. President. I wanted to have a word with you. paritaprevir Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir and thank her for granting that wish. There are many words that foreign investors, so-called hedge funds, have now reached the upper hand in what has been called a systematic financial institution in Iceland, i.e. Arion's bank. I'll think about it. A senator doesn't disagree very well with me when I insist that the trust in financial institutions has nearly been eliminated by the collapse of the bank in the autumn of 2008. Since then, the population has been somewhat suspicious of the banks and the financial system, and probably so. So-called trust measurements show it in black and white. More than a year ago, it was reported that some 6.5% of the population had great confidence in the banking system. More than 70% claimed to have little confidence in the banking system. A comparable report for the Council has shown that a small percentage of the people in the United States believe that the General will protect the interests of the public. V.E.G. President. It is in these circumstances that a systematic financial institution is sold into the hands of a foreign hedge fund. Prime Minister may feel cold that this is truly good news, and his uncle, Minister Benedikt, is satisfied. You could say that the hedge fund really has a hawk in the corner. It may be that among the hedge fund is one who has been caught in large payoffs in Africa and has had to pay for it with enormous fines. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does the senator believe that selling important financial institutions into the hands of foreign hedge funds is a failure to increase the confidence of the public in the financial system? Got it. A senator's moral defense that investing in the place of adulterate and criminal crafts has become one of the owners of Anion's banks? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with prime minister's view that the purchase is truly good news?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u9	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent inquiry. I now wonder why some people are interested in my opinion. If I thought right, there were three questions. A senator stood up. I can say no to all of them. I don't think it's a cause for rejoicing. I'm not proud of this, and this is not a result of raising the public's confidence in systematicly important financial institutions and institutions at all. I've been talking twice, I think, here in this puzzle about the hedge fund and about the important discussions that must be made about the government's ownership policies in financial companies when it comes to selling the bank. Strong discussion of such things must be made, and trust must be given. I think they're very unconvincing, this 99%, in the news that's just been coming in. What is the goal? Everybody knows that and everybody sees it. This is just under the FME criteria, or FECs, of an active holding point of 10%. This is very unconvincing, and it is not designed to create trust. I want to protect the only seconds left to say that the people deserve better. The banks ran short, dragged people like me and others into the area in an illegal way, and it takes years to recover from them. We need to build trust here. We do not do this in the way that has been done with the sale of Arion. Transparency and trust are number one, two and three. We need to know who are the owners of this bank. It's completely unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u10	A respectable president. March 13th. Requested a financial and business commission to give a review of a proposal for a hearing on financial policy in the years 2017-022. A review of March 15, two days later, by permission of the President, states: The matter has been investigated by the National Economic and Business Committee. The Commission does not take a position on this matter, but it does not intend to comment on a proposal for the resolution of financial programmes, especially on the national institutions of financial policy. Under this writing of Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the President, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Jón Pálddor the Steindór of Valdimarsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, daughter of Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Afredur, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Björnjorn, daughter of Vilmur Bjarnason. Logi meeting was made as an officer for the audienceEinarsson and it is regarded as supporting. The conference with the Economic and Business Committee shows that the committee discussed the five - minute petition at a meeting on March 14. Yesterday I received a message that there would be a meeting in a financial committee that should take the financial policy away from a committee, and that was done before a meeting began. I'm sorry that I can't take into account the report of the Council Committee that is dealing with economic issues in my Committee on Financial Policy for the next five years. I find it particularly interesting that the Commission is going to discuss the national interests of financial policy in their review of the financial program. I guess that's when financial policy has been approved. Don't you think it's a little late to give them the review, Mr. Honorable President? According to Congress, the Committee can refer to other committees for some matter, either in its entirety or in part. It specifically states that the reviews of other committees are printed with a committee study on the matter. I wondered if those committees who signed the reviews of the Economic and Business Committee have nothing to say about the matter that is involved in setting the economic framework for five years on which financial programmes are to be built.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u11	President. There is good reason to encourage members of the Parliament, especially members of the Parliament, to listen. The public doesn't often come out here to protest, but there are protests on Thursday. where to encourage the highest. A health minister to keep from leaving the promised future that he will not go into private business on the health system. I certainly hope that you senators are. The more part we listen to when the public wants to keep us safe. It is important, though we are in here, that we realize that we are always represented by the public, not by our groups, not by our own authority, but by our public authority. Very important. It is also vital that when we are given criticism, we at times feel that we are listening to it. How important it is when individuals fight for those who find it difficult to carry a hand for their heads to listen! We should not detract from those who try to make us aware of realities that are often distant from us. We're supposed to listen, and we're supposed to remember that when the Pirats have been ruled by the public through polls that the majority, 90% of the country's population, want us to put our priorities in the medical system, we should listen even if we're in here. That's our job. We're here for the public. We're public interests and public money, money that people have paid from their wages, and we're supposed to be careful to treat them properly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u12	President. The expected legislation on the equal pay contract and the equal status of gender in the remuneration market in recent days has reached world fame, which in itself would not be thwarted unless there is no such law, and such a bill has not been submitted here at the council, and in fact, it is not available to submit it. In fact, there is nothing wrong with a crisis and welfare minister who has said that such laws are not in the business, it's better to get them into collective agreements than to legalize them. But the minister, in fact, speaks two tongues in it, says one here in Iceland and another in foreign lands. The last time this morning, they said it was the highest. Secretary of Social Affairs in the Norwegian Media that he wanted to encourage the Norwegians to follow in their footsteps and legalize the same pay sheet in Iceland. I would like to direct my words to the head of the World Health Committee of the Generals and ask: What is the position of the chairman of the well - being committee to the level of pay? Will the chairman employ women and men in the labour market and even use the welfare committee if necessary, if the minister fails? Second, I'd like to ask the senator and what. The head of the welfare committee on poverty and how the greater part of the Council intends, if he intends to react to poverty in the country. According to the available data, which are not very extensive, the population is estimated to live in poverty at an estimated 7◯9% of the population. That's 2530 you've got. with low dose ritonavir. Of them, you make about 5 of them. in case of severe poverty, almost in extreme poverty, i.e. they cannot cook a decent meal at least Every other day over the year. These are high numbers, way too high on numbers. In Iceland, what strategy has the greater part taken to reduce poverty, and how will the director of the World Health Committee apply himself to that or to the committee as needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u13	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason for the discussion. We are in the first place on equality as measured by World Economic Forum, which is the result of which we should be proud. We are going to continue leading. Justice laws are used to achieve pay equals. There are two factors in an Icelandic society that need special attention in order to achieve equality. Sexual violence and a labour market, pay equals, more women leading the business. The goal of the law is to eliminate unexplained pay, and it has been illegal for half a century to eliminate people from gender. That would be the full amount of pay when women and men average with equal wages in their lives. It's still a long way off. There are factors and unexplained rates of pay are just one. So, yeah, I'll go for it. Then I was asked to talk about poverty. I have for many years in my field of law school in upper Breiðholt, where I have worked with the poor. I always have and will always speak for cross-cutting team work around people who are dealing with poverty. Here in Iceland, we have a large welfare system that serves as social services, health services, school services, care for the elderly, the disabled, the child protection, as well as the services rendered in behalf of those who are saved at institutions other than hospitals and nursing institutions. The interaction and effectiveness between these systems are key to working against poverty. We must not allow people to get lost in the gray areas between systems and to be led into poverty. When we talk about poverty, it is very important to talk about the responsibility of the State and the community in promoting so - called effective measures, including those most needed to be helped to make them angry. A fine example of such projects that have proved to be effective is the experiment project ◆ the culture and the work of which I have knowledge of where they were performed in the Breiðholt. [[The president calls.]] Both assignments have the goal of empowering people and giving them the opportunity to be dignified. [[The president calls.]] I would like to use myself as head of the welfare committee for continuing to develop important cooperation, such as this in behalf of those most needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u14	President must be less than a man. The members of the council are required to give two minutes for the talk given here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u15	Madam President. In recent times, poverty in Icelandic society has been discussed, and this has been the case with the most publicized in the media. A discussion of poverty and the ways to cope with it, however, has often been done here in the conference hall and discussed by groups that teach themselves on balance and social emphasis. Such classes as VG have consistently pointed out ways to reduce inequities in Icelandic society and to try to contribute in any way that poverty does not exist in Icelandic society. There are a number of factors that are prominent in the new surveys on poverty and intensification, including the U.S. A report published on September 13, 2016, was prepared for the welfare watch, where information was analysed about the people of the country who live in an extremely limited land. This report shows that housing conditions are a major factor in the need for people to remain in the poverty trap. That's once, and I really feel like I'm playing a scratched album, because we've been in this room at least much discussion about the housing matters, their main concern is to keep people in poverty. I'd also like to point out another aspect that we have to start talking about seriously, that's the difference between the sexes when it comes to poverty. A recent study of Gallup's reports that the male economy is generally better than women, that nearly 13% of women do not survive, while the same is true of more than 8% of men, as are more men involved in saving savings than women. [[The president calls.]] This was a discussion of the same pay contract as the need to take on real measures to cope with pay issues. [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage all of us to take this discussion in broad context and eliminate all the poverty in Icelandic terms, including between the sexes. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u16	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to respect a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u17	Madam President. The next Monday will begin a discussion at the UN headquarters of making a covenant that forbids nuclear weapons and will make their situation comparable to that of other weapons of mass destruction. Last February, representatives of the 101 State gathered to prepare these talks. Iceland didn't have a representative at that meeting. In fact, considering the list of member countries, it is very prominent that more and less people of the NATO population are missing. This, of course, reveals a story about the military alliance that we are on the basis of the right to use nuclear weapons in the first place, and it seems that it is now time to ignore talks about how to rid the world of this kind of weapon. I find it sad if Iceland - on days of strife or when it is suitable for large officials because the country has no military force and the people are peace lovers - they will not be there. There's reason to worry that Iceland will not be part of, e.g. Because in the last few losses, Iceland at the United Nations has voted against the ban on nuclear weapons. Last January 24th, a petition was given from me to the highest level. Secretary of State to see if Iceland would participate in these talks. The minister has not yet been able to answer her on the day of inquiry. But I'm hoping that this inquiry will be held on Monday afternoon, on the day of the interview, and it will be discovered that Iceland will, of course, participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be nothing but a horn.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u18	The president is going to remind the senators to respect their speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u19	Madam President. I'm going to make up the subject of detracting the financial status of a university in the country one more time. I was here to speak with the highest. Not long ago, Minister of Education and Culture, it was found that there will be no extra funds, no funding at the table for the colleges of the country. The University of Iceland is terrible, everybody knows that. I mentioned in these talks with the minister only tens of millions in one institution. It's not what's going on right now. It's the perfect cut in the declared goodies. I have a new resolution from the University of Iceland. With President's permission, I'll have to read it: THE University of Iceland's School of Colleges strongly opposes the government's conservative policies that have been prevalent in the affairs of the university over the last few years. This policy has led to significant subfundation of the university. This has a serious effect on the quality of study that is seen, including the following: in the breakdown of 50 school courses this year because of the government's demand for maintenance. The actions violate the Treaty of the current government, which stipulates that Iceland's schools will be supported in maintaining quality and meeting international competition. It says here: At each university, colleges receive about half as much money as universities elsewhere in the north. Still, each student in the Icelandic university system is less than a decade ago. Under these circumstances, all of us should accept, or say, the Board of Education: A powerful system of education is the foundation of advancement and competitiveness for modern society. I believe that we all agree that money university is a result of a community accident.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u20	Madam President. A greater proportion of all cases are recommended here. The management board and the monitoring committee will be stemmed at a large number of the Committee to Re-Elect. The committee was contacted by a representative from both the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It was requested reviews from 30 sources and received six points from the board for the case. The Council of Congress seeks the support of the Generals for the proposed change of names and number of recruitments at the Iceland Board of Directories. Does it mean that, instead of the Ministry of State, there will be a Ministry of Justice and Department of Transport and Division? The committee found that with the switch, there could be a more targeted leadership of each Ministry's case, that there had been a great change since the Ministry was united in its time, and that new and urgent projects had called for special priorities and the attention of a minister. It was also found that the change would contribute to increased expertise in the topic areas and better policy development, resulting in more intensive expert modules. The importance of developing expertise in the fields of matter is expressed in the majority of the accounts and is considered the basic premise of promoting the Ministry. The committee generally discussed the switch between recruitment areas and those in particular about the institutions under which they are hearing. It was noted that the role of the institutions has changed and has developed extensively in recent years, so it would be necessary to pay attention to what government agencies should hear. The majority also stresses the importance of the success of the changes in good cooperation with the executives, as well as if they are put between recruitment practices. The committee discussed some of the main responsibilities of independent decision committees. The majority of them consider it desirable to reduce this arrangement and stress that special attention must be given to bringing these additional tasks back to the recruitment process. The committee talked a lot about the costs and changes in staff. For the committee, ideas were put in place where significant expense was expected at the exchange that the committee made comments on. The majority believe that, in addition to normal initial costs, the changes will include costs for the recruitment of the Ministry and its secretary. The majority stress that with the approval of the synonym the proposal is not accepting further expansion due to the transition. Madam President. Finally, thanks to God. A management and monitoring committee for good cooperation on the matter, although the members of the Committee did not fully agree. The majority suggest that the proposal be accepted. It's under the heading "Why." The members of Brassar Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Sverrisdóttir Sverisdris, who was actually absent from the case but whose authority is stated in Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u21	Madam President. Thanks for that. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to ask about the costs that have been discussed in the Senate Hall because I don't feel like he's here. About 120 million were covered. K. a year's expenses, as the case was presented. It's only said here, as a pilot entered, that there were two parties, i.e. The manager and secretary, but in fact, there is no expense here, as I thought the law would require, i.e. what would result from this change? We know that when changes have been made, all of them have cost something. I don't think that's clear enough because in the proposal as she was presented, more employees were mentioned. But the cost was 120 million a year. I'd like to know what the cost is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u22	Madam President. It's true that this was a lot of talk. In fact, it is proper to say that here with the discussion or history of the case at the time, no expense was mentioned. It was not until the committee called for an expense report. It was assumed, as the senator rightly refers to, approx. 120 million. K. expenses per year and then, if I remember correctly, 12 million. K. at stock costs, cost of monotonous. This was much discussed in the Committee, and it was called for further implementation. The committee agreed that the replacement of the Council should not have to include all the items expected, so the results, as mentioned in the committee, are the advice of the Ministry and his secretary. I don't quite have the number in my head, but I remember, and it's gotta be with them, that these two employees are at 30 to 35 million. K. each year, as well as the expense I mentioned earlier. This too was made very clear in the talk of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, questioned by one member of the council, this 120 million. K. the costs would not have been counted and would not be included. This confirms the share of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u23	Madam President. Thank you. Specialist for the counter-sponsor. That answered, as if the question I had about it. Where the speaker of the smaller section, ow. Svavarsdóttir I'm going to review her opinion of the committee and read it as it happens. This is an opinion of a proposal for the resolution of the changed order of recruitment in Iceland's Management Board from the 1st smaller part of the management and monitoring committee. ▪ The first of my memories notes that since the economic collapse of the Ministry was too many and too small, there was a large change in the Council to strengthen it together by consulting. In addition, it was in the Council of Government legislation that more than one minister could appoint each Ministry. The first part of memory is important that such flexibility exists in the legislation so that the Council can adapt to political and/or physical emphasis at any given time. Can you see that this is the case? The first part of the memory suggests that the cost of the matter has not been evaluated or a new piece of ship at the time and therefore indicates that the matter is primarily a provision involving a balance between classes in the formation of government. Thus, there is no clear material basis for making a decision and discussing a lack of professional ground that can be considered acceptable. When the cost assessment was called, it took some time, and it was finally found that up to seven new levels and costs were estimated to be close to 120 million. K. every year. Thus, it would be a arrangement that would cost up to half a billion in terms of the election period without specifically being discussed in the history of a minister or in the evidence. According to the greater part, they are directed to the Ministry that, in place of the seven standards, it will be enough to add the position of the Ministry and his secretary to this change. The first part of my mind considers the matter to be unconcerned, is not a professional reason, is being distributed in recruitments instead of integrating and contributing to the responsible provision of public funds and more effective advisers, and is finally realized, of the problem of cost-and-organism, that preparation was a major failure. In this light, less than 1 memory cannot be of short duration. If we're only going over the short story since we were talking here after a crash, somehow there's been an ongoing tug for the Council's orders. I discovered an old article from February of 1958, entitled ◯Lausat Hill on the highest government of the country, in the United States, in the first century C.E. It quotes Bjarni Benediktsson, who was then a member of the Independence Party, who was then in a position of government and gave a plagion proposal in the united General Assembly, where he urged that five men be appointed to a committee to look into the context. A law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. He wanted to make a suggestion for the order of recruitment and exchange work between them. The paper suggested that the Council of Government law was involved, and the Ministry, or government departments, had become different from what had been planned. By permission of the President: ▪ The decision of individual governments has increased to advisers, or even ministers, often for rare reasons. Then the report put it this way: Whatever the way you look, the release of the highest government in the country is unfortunate. There has been an increase in cost, without any guarantees of improved handling. In some cases, the opposite has exactly been the result. By increasing the number of employees and more complex systems, there has been a lower rate of justice than before. It has, in effect, been discussed in a regular way how the board of directors should be organized. When you look at this story, it's a lot of evidence, and not just in the General's study report that encouraged the Ministry to be enlarged, that the Ministry was insignificant, and that they had not been willing to cope with the economic pressures we experienced before and what happened there. This has been true throughout history. We don't have much of a system, we don't have a lot of government, they're not really on any scale. We have many institutions. More cooperation and co-ordination are required within and without recruitment. If we do not, secular work may be less professional. According to a paper written by Kristín Ólafsdóttir in MBA in the official administration board. A fall where it says, by permission of the President: At the time of the European Council of Human Rights, 1969, there were still ideas of... -- there's a reference to building at the Council of Government and the local authorities around it. There were 150 employees at that time. Then she gives a witness when the Ministry directors gave an opinion on the Law bill, where the problems were to be changed. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The recruitment process, planned by the bill, gives us the impression that the Ministry will become sufficiently large units of adequate work and specialization, and management, which is mostly on the subject of the coming months and years, but not only with the day - to - day problems. This is from the book Iceland's Management Board on page 115. In general, the thought of less time is defined. That is why I have felt that we would stumble and wonder what the purpose is. In fact, in 1969, when the Ministers were about seven, the Ministry was already in doubt between 13 and 14. The essay says, by permission of the president: In Iceland, for 40 years it had become a little more difficult to control. The title of Ministers and Advisory went together as well as the terms of the Generals focused on a switch. Iceland's Office was legalized, but it was an institution. In the autumn of 1989, however, it was considered a scheme, for it needed a Ministry to increase the number of governments due to a new group of cooperation. The new team of cooperaters received one place in a government that was already fully appointed. The plan was to increase by one minister, requiring the ministry. It was Iceland's Hausti minister for several months until the Environment Ministry was established, early in 1990, that the new Minister became environmental minister. It shows that Iceland's Management Board and the Ministry need to be such that the Minister of Ministers for each government will succeed. This case is similar because the main exchange between the government groups is being created by the Ministry. The Ministry is not one of the common government agencies where their ministers, ministers, who are then political elected in the election, and the Ministry of Congress that falls in the hands of governments is, in fact, just a change in government development. When we reflect on the fact that we have been exposed to the present prime minister, he wanted to increase the number of stewards, and he did so during his final term. He divided the Ministry of Health despite the fact that projects there are overlaping. That was exactly one of the professional grounds for uniting the Ministry for one ministry back then. Four agencies were dropped in 2011, and two new ones were founded, certainly big, welfare, and Internal Affairs. Gunnar Helgi Kristinsson, professor of political studies, claims that experts in general agree that fewer units are more than smaller than the Ministry, but he agrees that there are political emphasises at any given time to determine the outcome of the problem. Now there are three groups of people in power, and the number of recruitments had to be increased. It is one thing to divide up the budget and another to increase the number of recruitment men. This is the authority to increase the number of advisers according to the current law, it was kept open, but it was not expected to be divided entirely. True, there are and there will always be cases of counsel that can be large and important. Here it is, for example. mention the matter of immigrants, new courts, and so forth, that there is reason to divide it. The issues under the Ministry have also been stirred up. It's okay. Of course, the Council should have some adjustment. It may be seen, and in my opinion, that some projects have a better place in other advisers than they have undergone in 2011. But moving a project or creating a new Ministry is a very different matter. As a result of a review of the synods, the decision was made that most factors and unity had been well established and that the control system had been simplified and costed. It states the following, by permission of the president: Then there is more expert work within a joint advisory, more scope for policy-makers, and the Ministry has a better perspective on institutions. It is also one of the dangers in making constant changes in a small system, the shifting of expertise. We may not necessarily be comfortable with people when they're constantly changing, as well as with less perspective on the projects of all the institutions, as National Accounting points out and I agree. Gunnar Helgi says that throughout the years, there was no increase in plans because professional evidence was the main source of demand for ministers. As I said before, I think it's basically what's up here. In an article published on June 4, 2010, in Science, I am reminded rather than in the Morning Press, the cost, such as the expense of the Ministry of Business and Industrial Affairs, has increased by 30% in exchange for the Ministry. There were 120 million increase in recruitment. The cost of running the Ministry of Industrial and Business grew almost one third of that period. One may wonder, " Can I be convinced that this new Ministry does not increase the cost? ' It's over, history tells us, just as history tells us, the cost of marine and agricultural businesses has fallen by 14% after the Ministry was united. In 2009, the cost was 50 million less than in 2006 in these two problems. It takes to unite. It's a price to trade. But then we have to look longer. I think that's primarily what we have to do, not all of us should look to the next corner, but we need to look beyond the future. As we know, since then the number of hired workers has increased year by year. In 2006, if the Organization and the State Department's Translation Centre are not included, the personnel of the conferences were 456. By the time it was written, they were 511 years old and had only increased. This is what we've been through. I'll join the minor, okay? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, the State Accounting Board made this assessment at the time, but it would have been good if she had been asked to review the costs of reassigning the problems that have been combined, if it was the mind of men to do even more. Then you can ask yourself, " Am I doing more expert work within or outside of recruitment after adjustments? ' Will that change? It would have been interesting to get a government Accounting to review it, and maybe I'll prepare some sort of inquiry to see if a Government Accounting can do that because I think it matters. The report presented was actually done soon after the union. It was then to see what was the goal, how the preparation and implementation, and all of this worked, but it was not to look directly at professional and financial benefits, although it later proved that professional benefits were great and expert work and teamwork were increasing. I hear people in the board and the Ministry of Presidency are experiencing this, so it's getting better. When the organization is being stirred up at very short intervals, you worry that things will go right in front of you. The result was clear, simple, controlled, improved service, and made it easier for advisers to deal with complex administrative projects. Also, long - term financial benefits were expected. A president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York felt that organization and construction had been good and responsible for these unitys. However, there were indications to them, as if it were expected to come now if a government reexamination was given to look at this. It was noted that the costs for integration, long-term policy development, the design of principles and management plans, as well as the need to support staff and contribute to a stronger overall workforce. Some of these have been applied and taken into account. But that doesn't change the fact that I think we had to have some other professional opinion of this rather than just within our advice. Not to be overlooked is also the fact that although I am quite prepared to look forward to seeing that the management board and the Board are alert to the change in life and physical life, it should not be about the lack of privileges by every government. It would also be interesting to consider whether we should not have had this life span longer than we do. It is changing so fast that we have not really had enough experience. This was changed at the time and immediately again during the last terms and replaced. The change was allowed to live for one ideal period, hardly even, since the changes did not fully come into place until 2011. Maybe that's what we live in backwards with the northern nations, we're always changing. Do not seem to change e.g. Committee areas. Why can the committees function unchanged and not the Ministry? All-American and educational committees get a huge number of cases frequent, heavy and heavy. There is also something that I feel I can ponder. History should tell us that we should have more long - term thinking than we are in the administration. Then I'm not just talking about the government. I'm all of it. We now see in public finance that we are not ready to adopt the process as far as it goes. We'll start right away by pushing it aside. The same is really here. We do not allow ourselves to become accustomed to the process for a certain length of time in order to see if it is truly effective. Is that better? Does that make sense to you? Does it give you practicality, more expertise within the advisers? Does that make sense to professional workers? We talk very much about the fact that work is not too professional. Madam President. I have been very successful in studying the administration work, but since there is a authority to increase the number of advisers without changing my mind. That's why I don't think that we left green can support the case as it is stated here because it's really not needed to change it in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u24	A respectable president. Soon I'll get the new sofa set in the apartment I recently moved into. On that occasion, I expect to invite an import party. If there's a little more involved than I expect, I don't expect me to start screwing up the sofa set and expand it just to make space, but I'll get the guests just to fit in with what's in hand. As if I keep a little four-man meal party, I don't expect to take the set back and together and let it hold the butts that I have to fit that time, because I know from a lot of experience after moving around that screwing up and putting them together too often isn't necessarily the best way to treat them properly. I don't care if I'm changing the board like this. The project is being approached in the most old - fashioned way possible. The walls are being fortified between the advisers rather than spanking them, destroying them completely. It's more of a fault. I would have thought that the government now who pretends to be modern in practice would prefer to set that long - term goal, for example. that Iceland's board of directors was run in one social security number, that we are not always trying to organize this small work as the Board of Directors has just over 500 employees in some eight to eleven units, or whatever it is necessary for the Independence Party to get enough seats, to fit below the highest level. The Ministers' ass. I would have thought a board of directors of a single social security number would be so easy to believe that the government was already implementing it because then the government can divide its tasks as it wants, as it does today, as it does in the President's decision for the switch of government affairs to the government department of Iceland's Council. There, it is quite possible for the minister to suggest that the new Ministry take over the same to-dos. I'm going to read, with president's permission, the main reason behind the change is according to the Minister's motion. It says: The aim, however, for the establishment of the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Transport and Department of Transport, is primarily to explain a switch to work within the Council of Justice, thereby sharpening the political leadership of the seminaries that depend on whether the Ministry is falling. Then it says again in the report, with permission from the President: It is assumed that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport will be exchangeed between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport as they are now divided between the Ministers of Justice and the Department of Transport and Foreign Affairs under Presidential decision No. 2/2017, the switch to the minister's work. What, then, is the purpose of establishing a new social security number with regard to the exact same task? Does it serve any purpose other than increasing the cost of government support services to a new agency under the minister? There, I must act specifically on the abilities of a greater part of the management and monitoring committee, which is nearly 500 billion. K. the cost of the terms shown in cost assessment, which I expected to be performed on professional grounds. The majority of these costs are eliminated by saying in terms of the president's permission: The ▪Meiri part stresses that with the approval of the synonym the proposal is not accepting further growth in terms of change. You might point out the highest. It's a legal committee for this kind of work. In December we could then agree that it is directed to the institutions of the State not to increase expenses in spite of increased projects. If that is the will of the council and it shows up on a report, it must be at home. Besides, I don't feel entirely right about the changes that occurred here after a collapse. The minister's report, with the permission of the president, says: "The unity of the recruitment process at the elected time of 2009-2013: ▪ The underlying factors included the following: The efforts of the then government to facilitate government management in the wake of the economic collapse and were, in particular, looked to for convenience and possible harmony in the support services of the advisers. This is just as far as it goes, but it is not accurate unless we forget the crash, a report by the Generalist Committee, the Council of Parliaments' Committee on the final report of the General Committee, which showed that one of the players in the collapse was a weak and sticky administrative agency, including the U.S.A. Because we had a D.O. on business matters, which was the largest system hazard to bring about the collapse. Would it not have been better to have a powerful government council where ministers could have called in expertise from the 500 employees' pot that works there rather than at that time. A secretary of the business has sat alone on her jaws and could not help it when the financial system was infested with everything in the administration? In itself, I think it is a good idea to use the Minister's chair to emphasize a matter. In fact, I would not have chosen judicial cases as such as emphasis. I would have, for example. while it is a good thing to see a minister of the climate or minister of children, or a minister who should be employed for two years in order to implement serious acts against sexual abuse. That would have been a real pain in the ass. No, in return, the dust is dust caused by the oldest Ministry, this is the 1917 Ministry, this is a 100 - year - old idea, under the premise that there is a clear line between lawsuits. If we're only on the President's decision to divide issues, we'll see that, along with legal matters, the highest will be the case. Minister of Justice with water measurements and maps Yes, this is done by the National Guard, which is entirely at home under judicial matters such as, but has been considered to take this map design and submit under the Geological Survey, a government mapmaking agency? Here are also the 17th unit of drinking, which is not a matter of service. I don't quite see the jury in it. And then there's a real estate file, and that's what makes Iceland's national records. A comment has been made by the European Union of rural society that it does not belong to the judicial court exactly. Why is the opportunity not used to listen to the local community and to deliver the real estate file as requested by the secretary of transportation and rural administration, preferably within what is today the same advisorship but will be subject to the Ministers to whom the local communities would naturally accept these matters, provided there is a real estate record for a common mission of state and rural society, and is one of the bigger things their national record is doing? There are also other factors that may have vague connections with judicial matters, such as lotteries, statistics, and religions. None of this is necessarily a court case. Thus, the mind - set amendment of the advisers will be just as hairy and vague as before, based on exactly the same text as the proposal of a minister, it is saying that it is reacting, that the work is too vague between human beings. The minister's report speaks of a historical tradition for special judicial committees and concluded that most countries have a special Ministry of Justice to form all the Norwegian states. In fact, it would have been nice to point out that many of those countries have this system I've already mentioned, there's just one landmark around the Board of Management, so that changes in projects are much more dilapidated and not tied as much into concrete and old-fashioned crafts as is suggested in this proposal. But okay. All the Norwegian states have a special Justice Department. The Swedish Ministry of Justice has 400 employees and Norwegian as well. In the entire Icelandic board of directors, 530 employees work at 484 levels. This may be why the other countries around us can afford to wear this in a special office. Madam President. I am truly sorry that the government has not decided to use this opportunity to bring the European Commission's work into the modern world. Having a flexibility to order counsellors as it seems to the government at any time is a good goal, but this is not achieved with such a suggestion. This proposal is just the Council of Government, as the people approached it in 1969 when the first laws on the Council were set. This proposal is particularly embarrassing, since it is not only about securing a seat under a certain company, because that chair is already there, it is about that the two Ministers who share with them cannot share staff with them. It does not promise good about the government if even the top executives of the administration do not have as simple a task as sharing the work of 80 employees who hear it. This is what the Ministers want. This is what the greater part wants, however, is the cost, and although it will keep Iceland's management council in view of its being too many and too low. That, then, is the will of those doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u25	Madam President. I wanted to ask you what. The senator with regard to this cost. It is true that if I understood it correctly, it is cost in the form of the secretary of the Ministry. In the memory part we managed to call after, that it was not normal to increase that amount more. If the senator could tell us about this in one another, the cost is high. If I understand this correctly in the law, the internal planning of counseling, the staff service, etc. I want you to follow the office manager who's up and his secretary, that's with the Ministry, and this needs a ministry. It is true that the senator says that there are issues the Ministers carry, so there are different ministers to which they are divided. They can work in the same scheme, as is with other ministers in this government, so that such things could be done altogether. Would the law require that the employee be added, the secretary and assistant of the Ministry? I just think it's a good thing to add to those employees in order to keep a tight grip on the situation, and more focus can be put on judicial matters, on the other hand, and on transportation matters. Transport is especially important now, but for the whole, over our legal state, justice is important. There we see the courts that do not seem to submit to administrative laws, they do not submit to information laws, and they constantly get a basis for failing to do so. No one can say he has a proper look at it. That's a lot of jobs. This is what's most urgent right now, we hear it, and we need to go on. If the senator could tell us which other aspects of the cost are higher than that of the Ministry. And would there be other ways to get this Ministry Marshal and assistant but to divide this into the Ministry or to change the law? [[The president calls.]] It's a letter of interpretation, which is simpler.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u26	Madam President. It's really no matter how we organize the Council of Control. The minister and what he hears - the Ministry is the minister's office, whether it is under his identification or in his unity within one board of directors. It is only natural that he would bring with him some senior officials, such as the Ministry or its value, if the organization had been changed. It is a natural cost, such as everything practitioners do around each minister. Maybe I'll ask the senator if he's on the committee. The cost estimates are up to 120 million a year, and the majority of the committees talk about them. Has expense food been made to support it? Or is it just the majority's opinion? So because the senator mentioned the importance of judicial cases during these days, courts felt that they were rejecting information laws and government laws and all of them. Maybe the senator is more optimistic than I am. Does he believe that the current minister will do anything to the courts? Is that going to be a change? What I've seen to the highest. A minister makes me doubt whether this is going to happen much, whether she has a special Ministry or a share of it with another minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u27	Madam President. About this 107 million. K. it's the Ministry manager, the office manager, but it's also the secretary of the Ministry, the director, the Accounting and the implementation of budgets, espionage agents, and two experts. I was abroad when the matter was taken out of the committee. I understand, if I understand the committee's opinion, it's just these two employees, but not all the employees. I heard last week or the last place. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson says: "It's not going to be so expensive. So I think the smaller part has managed to roll back some of the things that had become a bit of a call from the employees' scheme. But there are, at least, these parties. What was the second question again? Now I can't quite remember it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u28	...trust in the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u29	Yeah, about courts, I don't know anything about that. But this is a very important group of subjects. It is stated by the European Commission's law that similar issues are subject to the same Ministry. So it's completely by the spirit of the law, as I understand the exchange of this to the Ministry, not just the Minister, but the Ministry. Being with a ministry agency therefore gives them much more and more authority to follow up on matters that I believe are important in both categories and that creating a measure of independence there will make room for it. If there's space, I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u30	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answers. It's kind of a shame that we're discussing this on the basis of a church resolution proposal with such a tight focus as this, because this strain has to be discussed with us as to whether or not to have a legal case through the Ministry or to have a single floating board of directors who are then appointed to take place in the chamber of Congress. It would have been much, much better to be talking about it than if one special secretary would get the manager or just the manager. Because the senator listed what fell to this high cost of cost, the management manager, accounting, information, it's all a support service that should be saved in one place in the Council of Government. Having one head of the department's department, having one head of staff at each department isn't necessarily the best thing to do with money. Worse still, it can make it harder for them to do their job well. A personnel manager at 40 people's work, e.g. often it is much more difficult to enter a communication problem between employees than a staff manager at the job of 500 people who have a lot of experience in difficult cases. To improve the work environment of those who work at the Management Board, I think discussing a proposal for a broader approach to the Council would have been more desirable. But, as I say, it's not about the system, it's about one of the most specific things. Minister's ass.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u31	President. In itself, I am not opposed to this transition in the scheme of action, and I have actually spoken that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was again divided into two because, when it was united, it was simply not well designed. It has been repeated that some way the Department of Justice fell apart. I think it is very important that one of the most important supplies under the recruitment ship is strong and has an uncircumcised authority to do what needs to be done. On the other hand, I agree fully with what has been presented here, and I feel that it is necessary for us to discuss how our system is run and that those who serve as Ministers will work much more closely together. I think it's all right to give commendation when it's done well. I was at a meeting at a board of administration and monitoring committee this morning where it was found that there is a very large and important change in the state council, so to speak, and to turn into a modern outlook. Although this subject, as discussed here, appears to be ancient and old - fashioned, very positive things are taking place in the way of achieving much greater and more cooperation between counsel and minister. That's a very good and good sign to me. I'd like to commend the present government for that. I don't think this is a case that's a reason to worry about. I understood at the highest. Prime Minister that it was guaranteed and determined that it would not be spent on the subject. I challenge the members of the Management Board to keep that in mind. There's something coming to you. But I hope that the government's new approval will be followed for the preparation and disposal of the bill and administration, as per the 9th rule of government practices. I encourage senators to study this document, for it opens the possibility of a much better and more modern methodology on how both the prime and the cooperation of governments will take place. I think it's important, and this is actually a administrative revolution. It is best not to say too loud, since members of the Independence Party could hear it. But I know they're not all great conservatives, and some prefer, fortunately, things change to a new time. What I find fascinating is this approach. We need to put a little pressure on the approach that is prepared for ministers who work closely together to adjust, especially when there is a flow of counsel. We have come to know this at the General Assembly and wondered why, on the other hand, important changes in law cannot be achieved. Then it turns out that there is some kind of castle between schemes because it is often also about money, so people want to keep their classes. I think it's very important that we start considering that there should be a possibility of moving employees between recruitments. I think it would be very useful for every government to begin up immediately and prepare it and to emphasize how to work on large issues so that there's a good flow between recruitment instead of always fighting for the money and what the Ministry gets what's in the case. I understand that there have been some suggestions presented in the Presidency Department to improve the practice and to help with this flow. I'm not so worried about this particular change. I don't know if this is done to make any senator a minister in a castle or just a minister around a seminary that is necessary to keep tight and tight. In fact, I had suggested that this synoptic proposal be introduced that the home of the post - telecommunication agency be checked and suggested that it be transferred to the Ministry of Neoplasms. I don't know if it'll be done at any point or not, but I think it's desirable, simply because of a changed role in new times. There are a lot of things under the Post and Communication Institute that are actually not directly linked to an old-fashioned definition of the role of this institution. I think it would be very necessary to move it to the right place. It is even a question of whether the Agency would be better off living under the Ministry of Justice. We're talking about some very important changes that we'll be discussing in terms of privacy based on new plans for the European Council to set matters straight. The Ministry of Justice should be technically heard, rather than the Department of Transport. If that's the case, maybe I'm afraid there will be no knowledge. But if it turns out that it goes there, I hope that people are moved around and they are running well. It's annoying to have observed repeatedly that instead of working together on the basics that every government is planning to do, what I call a castle is a great deal of stress because of what I call a castle, they put a moat in place of people's ability to help with what the government intends to do. I don't care what government is in control, whether I think of that policy or not, the holding and monitoring of this council. It's boring when you see that you can't push things off because you're reluctant to be able to cooperate. I'm sure and I've heard inside the administration that there's a lot of interest in many employees to get more access to their skills. It's a little strange to think that in some places as if I ever did, e.g. in the Ministry of Education, there were only one or two lawyers to work on legalization at that time. They need to start buying jobs from local law firms. At times, it has been necessary to do so in various matters. I don't necessarily think that's wise. They'll lose knowledge of institutions. Then the chance to make use of people who are already alive is lost. I think it's also very important, since we're talking about the Ministry, to point out this invisible glass wall that seems to be widely available. Good government officials, people who have worked hard to be excellent government officials, seem unable to get to the top. It is well - known that politicians often go there. I'm not saying it's absolute, but it's all spoken. I think it's okay to talk about it here. It needs to be addressed. I hope these changes will be followed in accordance with the government's approval from March 10, and they will be followed. Of course it has to be taken in step, but I just want to encourage the government. Since we're talking about the Ministry and the extra money to be spent taking away this big Ministry, I'd also like to challenge the members of Congress to force us to find a fixed position here on the board for which the members of Congress can consult. I can't imagine calling for opinions from the same people who don't get paid and have come up with 15 minutes'worth of committee opinion or anything like that. I think we're just supposed to stand firm on it, strike up a little castle cat around the General and try to get more money so we can have more experts in legalization and analysis so that we can be real surveillance agents with the agency. There's been a lot of changes since the collapse. I think in itself, if I'm holistically looking at what's being tried to do now, that we're really asking a little question. I can't possibly criticize the government in this case as long as they intend to enforce this new agreement. There are other things I can criticize the government for, but not necessarily in this matter. I think it's very important that we senators, wherever we stand, support what is well done, and do everything in our power to stop what is impossible or slow it down and get it into our discussion. If I'm here, I'd like to use this opportunity, and I'd like to encourage the senators to listen if people object to our efforts. This is especially true of members of the greater body. In this case, I'm going to encourage all of us to give the impression that this change will not be in order to be spent on a subject that is not necessary. But I'm glad these two departments are apart. I felt that when this department was created, it was not successful and that the Ministry of Justice would be back in force. Of course, all those who observe these constant changes in their schemes find this amazing. However, the members of Congress may allow us to take control of only our government and appoint a fixed committee called the Committee for the Future, where we could do cross-cutting work and identify long-term decisions on big policy, such as Health, computer and software infrastructure when it comes to revealing the system and the long-term plans for carrying out the Paris Convention. The only way to achieve the constant change that is not to stir between terms is to work together. I find these efforts of the Parliament to be independent of the Commission very strange as when the committees were changed. I can't see that it changed anything when the committees suddenly became huge and with lawsuits that have nothing in common like a General and Education Committee. It's just bullshit putting these incredible differences together. It seems so too, and I feel that we senators who are critical should bear in mind that it is the source of this workplace that if changes are made, it must not be changed if it turns out that this is some kind of nonsense. I challenge us to examine ourselves, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I understood her to agree with the change, but she had some comments on this matter. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's position was further clarified because she brought up a subject that we've discussed many times here, and she's probably discussed it considerably more over the years, i.e. to the state of the Generals, as it were. A senator came in handy here. Because we now live with the government of organized groups, which, after election, suddenly discovered that there was no money in this country to some improvement. Senator that our money is best spent in this way if the administration order is changed, i.e. ... tochangethesystem here? Is this wealth best spent in separating this Ministry and increasing the number of stewards in the way suggested here? Or is it more urgent to promote the independence of the Generals, to promote the position of employment and expert assistance that the senators so desperately need, and to take advantage of? Should that be more important than this matter? She believes that this matter is sincere because of the same interest. A senator has to change counsel, or does a number of ministers come into it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u33	President. If the senators had anything to do with it, they'd make sure that the priority was here, but not always with the executive authority. It is of interest to change the budget and set financial policies to five years of age that each department official gets a specialist to implement policy, but the General doesn't get any. There's a lot of things I'd like to fix there. I know it's about a lot of ministers. It's just that way. But this chair exists anyway, whether there are two agencies, whether it's separate or not, it's a bit of a question. To tell you the truth, it's important to divide these two schemes. But if it's a priority, then there's something else. Ella and whether these issues are to be viewed in a collective way, and then everything else is to be done. Of course I would like to see it. We often take things into pieces, and somehow it never works properly because it's not done in a whole way. We're supposed to create a future committee because this is not done in a complete way so that the concept of change can exist between terms of interest and between decades. We need to have some long - range vision, but it seems that it is very difficult for everyone, not just members of Congress or Ministers or political parties. It is a modern - day problem to think long - term. But I'm always willing to fight for the Council. Always. I expect that. A senator would be the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u34	A respectable president. That's good to hear. I declare myself ready for this fight, that we the Papamists and others, together with one accord, join us. Hv. A senator here discuss a variety of butts that are always in the process of changing. I think you're right. It's fine to get until then. A senator agrees that the change now is primarily due to the growth of ministers, if I understand the urgency. A senator is correct. That it's about putting people in positions, even though they don't. A senator will agree with the change itself. This is called for a full view. Did she not appear in the General's study report? Was it not an assessment of the administrations, and particularly called for more powerful recruitments, including more powerful Council, larger and more powerful advisers? I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I know that she is familiar with the report and has fought for many reforms there: A senator disagrees with the vision in which there is less, larger, and more powerful, and more independent of the Council? Or does she think we're going the wrong way, considering what was suggested there? I couldn't understand why. A senator better than her feeling that committees had to be replaced, perhaps even making further recommendations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u35	President. I'd like to see this government order so that it really was just one Ministry of Counsellors who held hands of lawsuits and that there was a much more flow between them. There's nothing going on right now. I don't think it's a great idea to create a super-minister with a group of lawsuits that really have nothing to do with it, like the State Department. I didn't like it when I thought about how it developed, it didn't work out very well. Therefore, We're in pieces. I like that there are powerful contractors with political visions holding onto lawsuits that hear under every department. I like it very much. I'd like to change the way the government is here. Presently, very closed units. This was not what was recommended in the study report. I'd like to take it further. As long as we do not have it, and as long as we have relatively weakened the Council against the Executive Director, I would like to put more emphasis on promoting the Council. It's where my heart beats. It hasn't done well enough now, I think, for example. From what I understand, there are 100 cases being prepared into the government file. This month is almost over, and it's an both way down, and it's already finished. We're going to get a lot of stuff and things that we can't do too well. We're still here. How will we ask that question? We must resist it by encouraging and supporting the president to say, "Here and no further."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u36	President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much from what has just happened. However, there are many temptations in this case, including those that here are spokesmen who are shrinking and staying away, those who are taking the case and who want to blow even more into it through the expansion of recruitment, increase in ministers, and additional costs for operating at the booth so called. In many cases, large talks have been held, both during the council and outside the council, by the highest members. The prime minister, who is the transporter of this proposal, and of the partners of the labour market and management organisations, has to be able to facilitate the system as much as possible, should be clear, and not exceed many thresholds to climb when it comes to the Management Board and Management Board in general. As a result, organizations are often suggested to be reduced or sold, and they are released only so that they can be available to a group of people in the management system. So here's another way, i.e. to add, expand, add, increase cost, increase the budget and increase the total size and increase the number of employees in addition. This isn't quite new, though. During the discussions that were held at a meeting on similar issues following the collapse during the time of 2009-2013, we began to follow the advice of the General Report and to propose a special Senate committee, which was subsequently arranged, including a member of the Parliament's Committee. to reorganize the administration, to the administration, to the Management Board, to the founding system, and to more of these, walked into that path. I mention, for example, the unity of the institutions that took ages. It took two to three years to combine small institutions, research institutions, such as accidents to sea, land, and flight, because of massive resistance, especially in this council hall, against government management, institutions would become more efficient, and that expertise would be added to one place. I mention other units attacked during that period, i.e. When a cruise agency, a traffic room, and the road building were united in one agency named today's Transporter. It took hours, which was in itself all right. All of this needs discussion. A few layers of discussion are needed to reach a conclusion. But in every case, spokesmen began to shrink the booth and to make it disappear against all the matters that were there, every matter. This has often attracted my attention and question of the ideologies in practice and the ideologies on a level because in what was done at that time together with the institutions, a decrease in counseling, and the reduction in the number of ministers in the government, it was being carried out under certain guidelines. It was being followed by specific instructions, as mentioned earlier, out of the collapse through the General Report, through the Senate Committee, through recommendations by experts in the community. It was all based on that reasoning, not because someone wanted to do it specifically, but because it was done with reason. There were logical and sound reasons. It is good to read the discussion that took place today, for example. I think in the spring of 2012. At that time, the number of government officials was reduced by about 12 to 8. I can tell you that I wanted to go further. I wanted to take it down to six. In over 300 thousand people, I think it's enough to have six ministers, just overpowered enough, and have a powerful Ministry. A minister might then hear either more assistants or assistant ministers as he pleases, but it is simplified and made better than a crash when the Ministry went up to 16, 18 into what was, eight. I would have wanted to try to go further in order to reduce the number of advisers and advisers and find other ways under them to make the most of it. At that time, especially independents were very concerned that their board of directors was being stirred and reduced in number, feeling a number of interesting arguments, as we read in the discussions of those times. With the permission of a president, I quote Ármannsson, the Aargian, the member of the Independence Party, and the current council leader, if I know correctly, in which it deals exactly with the reduction of the budgets, the coordination of councils, and the reduction in the number of councilors from 12 to 8. His concerns were as follows: It can be said that a great deal of superpowers are needed to perform these offices if the person is to have a proper perspective and control of all these matters. [...] I have to admit, I'm worried about this, and I think it's definitely a bit of a problem. It seemed there was a shortage of Superman. A special superman, a political superman was needed to operate in the collective department of the industry and other measures that were then being united. Maybe that's why it's being torn apart again, because it's not the supermen who can manage that kind of ministry, although I allow myself to doubt it, because it's not supposed to be a very difficult matter. A powerful statesman, a powerful minister, should have a very good view of his ministry even if it is of the size it is, i.e. State Department. When reviewing the motion itself and trying to find out what is behind it, why the proposal is actually presented, why it is the reason why changes are suggested - and it is good always to ask yourself that when presenting a bill or a council proposal to make changes why it is necessary to change, what the reason is, why it's a good rule for everyone to start with their questions - their answers will be slightly blurred. There is not much reasoning on this, the material argument, that these changes are proposed. It is testified that it is a historical tradition for specific legal proceedings and that history was traced back to 1904 and 1917 when the first Ministry of Justice was formed and could be referred to as such a government has always existed, and this is always true, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Of course, these are not reasons for thinking that life will all change, and everything is subject to change, all developing somehow. The weapons must not lock us in the walls and frames we cannot escape, but on the contrary, we must always look to try to improve and correct our society by doing all that we do. Then, by permission of the president, the Parliamentary decree states: By reassigning the Ministry of State to two of the Ministry's Department, more targeted initiatives can be provided in the case of each Ministry's case and thus improve the management of the vast legal projects now heard under the State Department. [...] More important, a better perspective should be made on the classes of lawsuits that are heard by the local minister and the Ministry as simple to them in caring for their duties. I got the feeling when I read this chapter that the Ministry was in a steak, that the reason is that a minister there was simply not able to handle the project, it would have been too extensive. The problem must involve that argument, i.e. The reason why these measures are divided, the main reason behind the change, as the chapter says, is that everything in the Ministry was roasted. Certainly it was for a time. For a time, the State Ministry was paralyzed by political corruption, which ended by the fact that a minister had to resign. They felt it at the council and the Senate, they felt it in the ministry and the work that went on there, the public and those who needed the services of the Ministry also felt the pain. Maybe it's why the Ministry is just bad after this period that it just needs to be replaced, that's all that's gonna be replaced. However, the main point behind the change is that there was not an sufficiently targeted leadership in the case of each Ministry, it is clear in the motion, and that the Minister's perspective over the task he was to perform was not good enough. Of course, this is a severe judgment against those who were there and the highest. The main purpose of the changes he suggests is to divide the problems. This is followed by what I mentioned earlier by a reduction in counseling and ministers in 2012, who were well reasoned, it was taken step by step in those matters, based on evidence and social conditions. It says in chapter 4 of the synopsis proposal. Prime Minister that the evidence of our unity has even been the case in 2012. the efforts of the then government to achieve government management in the wake of the economic collapse and, above all, have been looked to for convenience and possibly compatible in a supportive service of advisers, although there would be no planned agreement, as previously attributed to, by the harmony. Where is it traced in this suggestion? There is one sentence in the proposal for an additive effect, which is only a minister's opinion. It says, by permission of the President: However, the effectiveness of the projects used by the Council was negligible with the exception of supportive services integrated. This is the only consideration referred to in chapter 4 of the proposal for additive effects that occurred together. There is no evidence to support that statement. Rather, it is simply the opinion of a minister or of someone who writes for him this proposal, without any material evidence to support it. It is true that part of what was done in 2012 was, of course, increasing the economy of the government. Most of it was successful, but the main argument was to make the ministry and institutions more efficient and responsible than they had been in the previous decades. It was the red thread of the General's study report at the collapse that agencies and the Ministry were weak, they were powerless, relatively powerless to cope with circumstances that occurred then, too many, too few, and too unsatisfactory. So now, because those who conducted this Ministry, at least as prime minister, were not in a position of perspective or firm leadership in the cases under the Ministry. It is the judgment of prime minister in the motion of his fellow members who served as minister in the Ministry of the Interior. In the same chapter of the proposal, the dissociation of the State Department is inevitable, resulting in a successful separation that in some cases may result in an increased cost of operating. This is the cost point of the proposal in some cases, not in the specified cases, but that in some cases it may result in an increase in cost of operating. Of course, this is not an acceptable cost assessment on the part of the prime minister of this sort, that it may be something to happen, but perhaps not. The committee involved in this matter called for an annual cost of about 120 million. K. or under half a billion during the election season, in case the government was to hold it out. It's half a billion at this cost. How does more of the committee react? He's turning down the cost. He's just saying, it's not right. We don't want to believe that it's like this. The greater part highlights that despite the high cost of a project called after the order of action, it is not accepting further expenditures for the transition. This is an exception to the other costs the current government has set in motion an increase in counseling and ministers. More than likely, the changes since the millenniums of the national administration directive, i.e. Regarding the order of the Council of Control, running on billions in the season. It costs us billions of dollars in the season, this change alone costs half a billion, and increasing the number of recruitments from eight, about one per year, one at this time, this runs on billions in one rate, the changes the government is under attack, into what has been done before. Of course, this is not acceptable in any way, and it further underscores the fact that the purpose is not to manipulate the government, it is not to be an efficient minister, but a real purpose to maintain a political balance in the government. It is a lesson that we have previously received and that these groups, at least in cooperation with other categories of independence, have often been adopted to maintain a political balance, and are paid to do so. In this case, it costs at least Two and a half billion. At least it's gonna cost you. In this case, half a billion to meet the requirement of independence party, to have one more minister and one minister, and to prevent ministers of the same party from mixing much with each other and with their employees, but to have their own areas that they can devote themselves to their Ministry, and to their total independence there. It is good to bear in mind now that this matter is considered to be the real reason behind the government and the government and the members of the committee here, the government spokesman on this matter at the council that is about to blow into the booth, expand it. There is no certainty, security, or insurance presented in a case, whether a minister or a committee party, but it is spoken of as securing independence, the more targeted direction in the category, not that by action it is certain but that it may be able to do so, perhaps more expenses, perhaps not, and when the committee receives a cost assessment, it is rejected. A respectable president. Finally, I ask about the visitors the committee announced to come from the Council of Control, i.e. of two schemers. They didn't call for someone else's opinion, e.g. administrative experts, e.g. The members of the General's Research report? Was it not called upon to argue when the Ministry was united in its time and reduced? What was behind it? Why are more people not called upon to feel that they are not directly involved in the plot, with full respect for them? Why is it that special people are not consulted on this matter? [[The president calls.]] Why is it not an effort to examine the evidence available when the Ministry was united at its time?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u37	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's history is great. I'm interested in hearing his opinion of some of the key arguments for the proposals presented in the report that read in a way that sharpens the political leadership of the seminaries of the seminars as to whether the Ministry should fall and that by reassigning the Ministry to two agencies may provide more targeted leadership in the seminaries of each Ministry. I'm interested in whether or not. A senator agrees with this reasoning, and whether he believes that the Congress resolution proposal will make it possible for the political leadership of the litigators who hear under the Ministry to be more decisive. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with the arguments presented there for the dissociation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u38	President. I did this earlier in my speech. Just this chapter, chapter 3, which deals with the main objective of the change - I would not have wanted such a shipment from the prime minister of the country, a former minister of the Ministry of State, because it is simply said that the main reason for the change is that those ministers who have served there were unable to provide direction in these areas. The primary objective is to ensure a targeted leadership, and hence, it was not available. If there had been a targeted leadership at the Ministry, the main reason would be out of control. Similarly, the reasoning of the prime minister indicates that it should be achieved, this is now another text in the motion in which there is no assurance, but that this may be achieved, a better perspective on the lawsuits heard by the local minister and Ministry. In other words, there are two main reasons for these changes, as measured by the highest degree. Prime Minister. On the one hand, those who have already been there did not ensure that they had a firm, firm lead in the language groups under which they were hearing, and second, that they did not have a perspective on the classes they were supposed to bring with them in the Ministry. It must be a cold breeze for those who were there. But I quote them again in the words of the Speaker of the House of Independence, why. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, who said in the spring of 2012 when the Ministry was being united that he feared that it would not be a superman who would be needed to carry out such tasks that the body of counselors included.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u39	Madam President. It is remarkable that with these reasonings in the council arrangement, such as at the time. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason notes, in effect, that this targeted classal leadership has not been achieved in the government as the highest. Prime Minister sat in, then minister of finance. She didn't make it in her last term. Then I wonder, " What is it? ' A senator believes that this view can be applied only to a case in question regarding the Ministry of Internal Affairs, or perhaps even some other issues, such as, for example. The Ministry of Health, whether it might then be the next step to draw the leadings of these journals into question the highest degree. Prime Minister. I find this reasoning interesting and very hairy because there is really no more involved with this statement in a report at the highest level. Prime Minister, there is no more meat on your bones. I thought about it, and I'd love to hear the point. A member of the council, whether it is possible to conclude that in the councils, such as the Ministry of Health with two Ministers, there is a weaker leadership in that category if correctly read from this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u40	A respectable president. As I said in my speech earlier, this gave me the opportunity to read this chapter in the argumentation of a minister about the changes under the heading "Megins of the Change, " i.e. that there was not enough leadership in the Ministry, and that's why these changes need to be made. I agree, in part, because we remember what the state of the State Department was for a while because of corruption issues, due to the incident of leaking. The Ministry was for a long time paralyzed, so to speak, it did not respond, nor did it answer the call of the council, nor did the public, but in various matters. At the time, it was quite clear that the minister there did not have a perspective on what he was supposed to do or that he could provide sufficient leadership to the Ministry. Everyone realizes that. Eventually, that minister withdrew from the ministry or had to resign because of the issues that arose there. After that, things changed for the better. I'd like to mean that it was far better to follow, where the Ministry had a better and more loyal leadership than had ever been. That is why I am only surprised by the cold greetings sent by the prime minister. Of course, there may be more of them. I mentioned earlier that there is a tradition, that it was always this way, that the Ministry of Justice was founded in 1917, and therefore it should just be. Here we once had a special agricultural agency, a special seabed agency, a special economic Ministry and a lot of recruitments designed by Sikhs 20 people including drivers, with little expertise within every Ministry and Support service that was supposed to be insufficient. [[The president calls.]] That was one of the reasons why the ministry would be united in its own time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u41	Madam President. First, I want to say that I am deeply grateful. The last speaker, my ass. paritaprevir Björn Valur, son of Gíslason, for not extending the discussion, and for not offering any hymns. But for all the fun and fun to go away, I have to say that in many ways I feel that this discussion has been extremely helpful and very good in many ways. The discussion may have been more extensive than precise, but at any given time, we must always wonder how we can best provide administration, how we can best provide advice, and how we can best guarantee efficiency, professionalism, and success. It may seem different to us. We can have different viewpoints about this. We know this in these studies, such as anyone else, that the era changes. One day it is the password to have large units, one day it's smaller units, and it's a mixture of all of this. I think the experiment here is that they're trying to make things better. I think it's a little far enough to say that the State Department must have been involved if they want to try to do better. I don't quite understand the language. This too has been discussed with us in terms of cost and cost. This has been discussed in detail and many times over that the cost is half a billion a year. It's simply wrong. It's over again and again. There are many points to it. That was discussed on the committee. That's what we're talking about in the committee's opinion. This has been discussed by the prime minister. I ask men not to repeat it, it is not enough to repeat enough things that are not right to make it true. I don't really think it's decent to use that kind of talk. Then there were also different opinions on the subject. Clearly, some have a problem. The members of the council mentioned here think it's a pretty good thing, but others think it's a bad thing. I don't think we're supposed to beat it off the table. Of course, politics is in everything they do. Better now. Plans and how they work and who are in it are part of politics. I think it's a little strange if they're going to be here full of holy zeal because there might be some political involved. That's a little strange to me. I think, in the end, it could benefit and benefit. I repeat, I'm grateful for this discussion, and I'm willing to do so by reason of it. Parliaments discussing the Council's administration, the Council's administration. Everything is subject to change. I'm sure we can do better than that. But then I think we should try to get up a little bit over the popular talk and discuss it on a broad ground. The matter of the council itself has been discussed here. And name the council, for example. I think we could be much more flexible there. They're trapped in traditions. To solve everything, I think it's at best substantiated dogma. There's nothing to say that a lot of services with a powerful support service, a powerful expert, I don't talk about with experts that can be used in the way that much is discussed, can provide strong leadership and be very good at what they do. There is one part of progress at the Council of Control, i.e. To break up this silencing scheme, in what form it may be. I think there's a lot to do better. We should always be trying to do better. I don't necessarily think it's a blame for what's happened, even though we all agree to do better today than yesterday, I think it's only very reasonable. But it's the other way around. I'm not going to hold up the discussion and close this up for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u42	A respectable president. Contrary to what. That's exactly what I'm going to slow down, because I think discussion is always for good and it's good to talk about it. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council in his speech. Hv. A senator noted that there was often a great change in the era, or opinions, in what was best in the situation, whether it should be large or small, or how it was. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has read the General's research report, the review then made in the administrative department, and whether he agreed to that assessment at the time and even changed his mind if he agreed with it, as it is obvious that he has a problem. The senator does not seem to be now. I ask what he makes of his viewpoint, which clearly shows in his case, although he did not directly say, that the opinion there presented is wrong because what is being done today is contrary to that report. I couldn't understand why. A senator who spoke of a change of opinion after a period of time changed. Then I'd like to ask. A senator, because I don't sit with him on the committee, about the cost of my lunches because he claims that the expense has been made wrong. What exactly is the cost? If he could provide us with information for the rest of us who do not sit on committees and have access to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. The frequent spirit is constantly changing, and it is not under investigation. Times are changing despite research reports. As it happens, the person standing here wasn't in politics at the time, so I'll be happy to admit that I haven't read these cards from one side, so I can hardly have changed my mind about her. On the other hand, I have considerable experience in the management of various kinds and organized bodies, which often change. There are new theories, there are things that people see that they can do better than before. I think it's got to be possible to deal with us regardless of the study report. I'm not making her down, not at all. I'm just saying that the age-resurrection, as the word shows, is the spirit of time. Hv. A senator mentioned that I had said that the cost was wrong. This was not in itself wrong with the original ideas that were presented on what the change would mean, however, it is quite clear that in what was put before us, ideas far beyond what was necessary to achieve what was discussed were far beyond what was necessary. V.E.G. Here, the prime minister repeated in response to an inquiry from the White House. Our associate, Sisís Svavarsdóttir, made very clear that this should be within the expense of the Ministry's operations now required to add possibly two employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u44	A respectable president. I must declare a certain disappointment in the event of an accident. A senator bases his expense assessment on the words of a prime minister in opposition to questions. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I sat here in this hall listening to them answer, feeling that they were based on denial and no facts. In any case, the account may be available, the cost account. Hv. A senator could not name that number here. I haven't heard that number. If you want to say that one food is wrong, you really need to answer it with another. It's modern-day, good work. I personally have not formed a strong opinion as to whether it is right to divide the ministry. I'm just gonna say it right now. I'm asking who. A senator who has asked more people here today because of the general statement about the administration and my interest in careful management. What I find interesting and what I hear is the sound of it in my words. We're looking at the research report like something that was just done there at the time, it was just like this, and then everything changes, and life goes on. I think that when the Generals' research report was made that for the first time we've been able to remember, and I'm a historian that without me getting high on a horse, sit down as a community, the General has sat down, and just slided into a fire where the knots weren't well equipped enough for the knots, where and how better to stand, and where would be needed. There was humility in the community. There was humility in this room. Hv. Senators were willing to look at themselves, look at themselves. The fact that we don't do anything about it is unfortunate. The fact that we view it just like any other report that will change after the event is over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Again, I'm not contradicting this case, I'm only looking at how we're doing the knots in the administrative department in general and professional practice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u45	Thank you. Senator. I'm sorry if he understood my words so that I was denying what had been in the study report. Not at all. I think that was a lot of work and a lot of work. All I was pointing out is that I think it's like all other human works, it's not a piece of stone to be the ultimate truth. That's just what I wanted to say, not that she wasn't careful or that she didn't say much good things. This does not mean that everything there was the ultimate truth forever. It was only that. Of course, the cost of the expenses lies in the cost of a dinner that came from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was disassigned, at the cost of his secretary. About 35 or 36 million if I recall correctly, except for 10 million at a single cost there. This is absolutely in place, and I don't think there's any doubt in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u46	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, of local elections. It's a simple bill. As stated in 1st paragraph. will replace the words in question the number of 2s. 108. g. The law comes: another rate. The bill was suggested to a Council of 143, but it did not succeed. So it's removed in the same form. At 108st. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, it is stated that 20% of the country's most elected people can want to vote for a local election and is then obliged to accept it no later than within a year since the wish. The minimum percentages under law are allowed to set a higher proportion in agreement for the administration of each group, although not more than one third of the rights to vote. Notes following a bill to the law show that no government forbids any elections, though less proportion of the population submits it. However, it would be highly estimating how such wishes would be supplied, and this would lead to uncertainty of the signatures, e.g. to collect the signatures of 20% of local votes because the rural society is peripheralized or consists of a number of scattered settlements. Transporters believe that it is right to provide local communities with clear authority to provide a general rule on the proportion of government that could thus be approached by citizens. This would eliminate uncertainty about what percentage would be compared to the formal payment of the regional government signatures, regardless of the material involved. As such, I suggest that the bill go to an environment and transport committee for material discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u47	A respectable president. If this bill succeeds, the rural communities will be given an even greater chance of strengthening population democracy, promoting the distribution of power, and promoting greater involvement of the public in its relevant issues. This is the modern - day cry for help. This brings back the power of the province to the people even more than it has been. It is important that the common people express their opinion more often than every four years. Let us look for ways to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u48	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly, with subsequent adjustments. The transporters of this bill are along with the one standing here. Councilmen Logi Einarsson S. Brjánsson, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, Ásta Guðrún daughter of Helgadóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson's Valdimarsson, Hanna Katrín Fridrisson, Jándímsson, Nichole Leigh Mosty, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gónstir. In 1st. The bill says: ▪ After 2 mgr. 65. g. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: While serving as Minister of Ministers, a senator may decide to sit at the General Assembly only according to his office position as minister, as stated by 51 st. The constitution, which will then be taken to the General Assembly by his deputy. An announcement made by a letter presented by the President to the council is made by the secretary of the United States. A deputy council member of the General Assembly, according to this paragraph, enjoys all the same rights while he sits at the Generals and members of the Parliament. When the vote period expires or before, during an assembly breach, or when the minister has been granted release from office, the deputy body disappears. Then there is 2. which says the law is already valid. The bill is now transferred for the eighth time. The first carrier was in all the previous times Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, Congressman of the United States. With the bill, a minister who is also elected General, if he thinks it is necessary to decide that his deputy will take his place at the Council while serving as a Minister's Minister. Still, the minister will be serving at the council, in the strength of his office, according to Article 51. The constitution. If he saw this possibility, he would be allowed to participate in conference discussions but should not have a vote. His assistant, however, had all the rights of a general and had the same obligation. He'd be even. Embraced in the committee of the Generals, such as the Prosecutors, who sit in the premeditated position of the nobility, as 2 mgr. 17th par. Parliamentary law. Two. The Constitution contains three divisions of power into legislation, execution and judicious authority. However, the distinction between the legislature and the Commission is unclear, since members of the Parliament who accept the Minister's office continue their Congress and voting rights at the council, even though they are not usually members of the council committees. It is considered that, more clearly, the separation of the legislature authority and the Commission will support careful management practices. This applies not only to the Commission's activities, which is responsible for most of the embryos submitted to the General Assembly, but also to the work of the legislature. The Senate's principle that the legislation would likely become more clear in separating from the European Commission. While a minister decides to take his place at the General Assembly, he maintains the same terms as other ministers, as shown in Article 5. legal on contracts of the general council and Senate costs, No. 88/1995. So if the bill is legal, the secretary's decision to take his place at the General Assembly will result in increased fees at Congress and other fees to the deputy council. Mr. President. Thus, the bill is costing an uncalculated bill and is uncertain, since it is not known how many Ministers, if any would take advantage of this possibility, will be legally established by the bill. In recent discussions about this bill, they have heard reports of criticism that if the minister takes in a replacement, there are more voices of the government groups in the Assembly Hall. It may be. But that is not everything. What really matters when it comes to handling matters is a number of votes. A minister who has taken advantage of this possibility as the bill, if it becomes law, will grant it, will not vote, but may, of course, address the issues under it. Mr. President. When this discussion is over, I'd like the bill to go to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u49	A respectable president. I think this is a very clever bill, and I'm surprised it hasn't even reached the end of the seven storms yet. In my mind, it is necessary to separate the European Commission from the legislature. It is absolutely unacceptable that the same individuals monitor themselves. In fact, 52 members of Parliament are acting as such, i.e. who are fully involved in the matter of Congress and committee work. Eleven people are busy with vast jobs in the council, so they are not able to do the job of a senator here. If this bill succeeds, great improvement will be made, the importance of the Generalis will increase and all will be weighed. That's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u50	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the National Organization. The transporters of this bill are, along with the one that stands here, why. paritaprevir S. Brjánsson and Guðjón. That's how the bill sounds. In 1st. says: A special agency shall be to monitor the country's outing and supply, to pursue economic research, to be a government, and to the General for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Agency, known as the National Organization, is a member of the General Assembly. At the same time, the World Council Committee employs presidents for six years. 2.g. It reads: The Agency's main projects are: 1st To make national bills. 2. Making national projections and plans. 3. To produce and publish publicly twice a year, spring and fall, overview reports on the development of national farming and prospects of these activities, including the production, consumption, investment, financial and financial balances, prices and purchases, public employment and income, housing market, public employment and financial resources. In addition, the Agency shall place the results of their observations on the specific aspects of the economy for public vision as much as possible. Fourth, please. To take care of economic observations and reporting for the government and the global economic institutions as the government decides and for the government's agencies on the final issue. Number five: ▪ Taking care of information collections and reportings for financial advisers, as well as for government and rural co-operation laws, such as 128 pars. Substitute governance.How many are there? Six: To provide information and reports on economic issues with the members of the General Assembly and the committees of II. And seven: To provide the labour market information on the economic issues and to care for the economic observations as agreed. In the 3rd. says: It is necessary to provide the information they would like and need for their work. She uses it to share the rights of Iceland's Haggis, and the same penalties are available in case of shock. The Agency shall consult Iceland's Habitats and other bodies, which gather parallel information, in order to avoid double-work. Section 4. In accordance with these laws, the cost of the services of the National Institute of Economics is paid. Section 5. Details on the implementation of these laws and the activities of the National Organization are permitted by the Regulation. Section 6. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2018. Mr. President. The case was previously given to the 145th legislature and is now reassigned. The first official of the case was Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, member of the Continent. In 1974-2002, an established National Organization was heard under prime minister and was to be monitored for the country's annual trip and supply, the economic research and the government and the General for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The decision made by the prospective prime minister to put down the National Organization has always been very controversial. This bill suggests that this institution will be established again in 2018. On September 28, 2010, the General agreed to the conference's reaction to the 2010 Commission report. It lists 12 things that need to be revised or prepared by law. The 11th item of this list reads like this, by permission of the president: It will be an independent government agency that will monitor national economic development and as national economic forecast. A U.S. Senate report on the report of the World Commission of September 2010 stated in section 2.1 that the Committee for Congress suggests that such an institution is a member of the Council and is designed to evaluate and publish predictions for the economy in the same way that the National Organization did for July 1, 2002. Volume 1 of the 2008 study committee's report on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks, says in chapter 4, on economic and domestic economic policies, i.e. Section 4.8, Conclusions of the Interpretation Committee of the General Assembly, by permission of the President: It is essential to increase the cooperation of the state of finance and the Federal Bank on Economic Operations so that one policy is not directed firmly against the other, as it was during the past few years, when government issues were constantly aimed at increasing the imbalance and the overpowering process and leaving the Huns Bank alone to cope with the consequences. In order to create an objective basis for economic coordination, an independent public agency could hide the role of predicting the economic situation and evaluating the economic situation and likely the development of different economic policies. It is important in such cooperation to respect the independence of the Federal Bank for decision-making and the application of its controllers, but there is a lack that ministers have taken sufficient consideration for the Council Bank's policies. It is long time for the General Assembly to respond to the report of the General Commission and the Senate report on it and to restore national interests. When a national interest agency was put down, their assignments, including theirs, were specific. The implementation of national interest accounts and the implementation of national and national programmes, is being transferred to The Haust Office of Iceland. If this bill is to be legalized, the Haguembourn Act must be adjusted accordingly so that the work of these two strains could not be breached. No. Is It Designed? No. 123/2015, was set up for financial advice. In comments to the bill, by permission of the President, we say: It is important to ensure that the level of objective assessment is as important as possible on the basis of government financial policies. Hence, the change is suggested that financial advisers determine whether financial and financial policies are in accordance with the values listed at 2 mg. Section 6. The bill and the financial rule, according to Article 7. The bill. At the same time, the bill assumes that financial legislation will determine whether financial planning and implementation are in accordance with financial policy. To ensure public transparency and access to the results of the Council, it should be published publicly. The active management of public funds depends on the availability, basis, implementation and impact of economic policies in general. To be effective in the management of government funds, coordination and coordination of these factors are required. The role of a financial body is to identify this interaction, to determine whether it is logical and to meet the requirements of baseline and financial order, and to make financial policy available. Economic Council is primarily a professional guide that employs the most widely accepted methodology for economic analysis and logical support for its opinions. The Council should promote transparency in a discussion of public financial development. Regardless of the opinion of a financial body, it is fundamental in this context. A financial body is three men's advice. To do this, it is necessary to obtain information and analysis from an institution that is independent of the government. This bill suggests that the National Institute for Information and Reporting for the Financial Council. Its objective is thus better maintained than it is expected to be handled by governments according to Article 13. it's a government law. Comments on public financial matters are as follows: "In order to achieve effective financial work within the scheduled time period, it is necessary to have easily access to data from Iceland's Habitat, the Bank of Iceland, and the Ministry of Economics and Economics, which have the basis for the programmes established by the Council to evaluate. Clearly, the Ministry of Economics has political powers and is therefore not at any given time disproportionate to governments. By establishing an independent agency that was heard under the General Assembly to discuss economic issues, there would be no doubt about the political impact on the basis of which the Council of finance built its work. It is customary to have financial resources in the countries around us, but they serve various roles. Our comments on public finances are as follows: "The charges vary widely between countries, in some places they make costs for political policies and legislation, but elsewhere, such as Sweden, their role is limited to approval on terms of budgetary and financial billing. Thus, it may be the role of the National Institute of Economic Affairs to consider political policies, ending one of its roles under the bill to provide information on economic issues to the general population, and this could refer to the costs of their policies or the bills they raise. The Community Committee on Economic Affairs and Social Affairs is operating on the basis of a treaties between state and rural society. The Committee is assigned to provide information on the economic status and development of financial and rural organizations and to provide annual economic reporting, financial and rural development, discretion, etc. to prepare meetings with the secretary and minister of the local government. The Committee shall then, if requested, provide information on the recommendations for changes in financial relations between countries and rural society and/or municipal income populations. It is natural that this work will be shifted to an independent agency involved in economic affairs. It is true that the environment has changed from that of a national economy. The labour market partners, whether salary or employment drivers, are in charge of economic analysis but there are also intensive diagnostics within the banks and other institutions, such as management agencies, which are concerned with the diagnosis of economic outlooks. All of these are some kind of stakeholders and irresponsible to ignore the possibility that these analyses could be colored by the interests of these enterprises, institutions, or organizations. Therefore, it is urgent that in the country there is an organization that can be trusted with any certainty that it is not to keep certain social interests under control but, rather, national interests, an institution under the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Mr. President. After this discussion, I'd like the bill to go to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank the prime minister very much for this bill. This looks very good and is not unnecessary, considering the circumstances in which you have been working at, for example. Funds and budgets recently have clearly been missing from most stakeholders who have brought up the financial status of certain forwardal imaging analyses or risk factors. It was just a business agency that mentioned that if there was a percentage lower economic interest, we would be in the poor financial supply. That was the only staging analysis we got from all the servers. I can just see that a national economy could be a particular member of the collection group, which says an independent party of the nation's state, which would be very good for politics in order to form new political parties that are trying to get into the complex system we live in. It is far from easy to keep track of e.g. Because the development of pension commitments in the coming years with regard to the B department can fall into 13 billion extras on the budget. This is something that should be well established, both to the public and to the new political elements that are planning and planning what they will do in elections. They will know better what they have between their hands in order to set priorities. I'd like to thank you very much for the bill, and I'd like to stress that there may be a lack of field-of-view analysis or sensitivity in it. I would recommend that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's reputation for the bill was his. Now we're what? A senator on both a financial committee and is working on our committee's opinion for the budget policy. I've just thought about it when I've been trying to figure out what the crime scenes would be like if these practical predictions under financial policy do not go along. What will it do when we weigh together the target of living in the policy and the budget rules that are also set into our policy? This is a complex account and a great deal of expertise that would have to be under it. How beneficial it would be for senators to have access to such an organization as a national interest to draw up these scenarios and evaluate them! I'm not going to talk about an approved financial policy for the next five years that can't be changed unless there's going to be a major economic crisis or a natural threat. We certainly need the huge task of assessing whether financialism is okay, to agree so long, to have such an institution behind us. We don't have it. That's why we don't know what to do. Therefore, it is very important that we accept this bill and that on January 1, 2018, such an institution can operate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u53	A respectable president. I'm particularly fond of what's being discussed in the bill, that the Agency is a member of the General Assembly. It is an organization that is in great need, that we are not dependent on the Ministry of Our Ministry, the Ministers, and the Ministry that performs a certain service. There is a power structure between which it is difficult to interfere. Having an institution under the General Assembly that can help us to monitor the risk factors for, e.g. The economic policy is a very important thing, I think. As far as I can see, this bill gets my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u54	Mr. President. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator agrees completely on this matter. That's good. I hope it's more of a part of the deal here. However, it is not only members of Congress who need this institution and the expertise and skills there but also the financial Council. What a need for more support! It's important that there is an evil institution that provides all information. Once again, thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u55	Mr. President. I'm just gonna talk to you about this. I think it's very urgent, especially because of what we're talking about here, we're dealing with a government budget or a policy plan. This sounds good to them work and what they've done there. I've been looking only in old magazines today, and I found articles since the collapse of the National Institute of Economics, then 2002. I'm going to quote only what's going on with one economist, the daughter of Katrín Ólafsdóttir, who was then a member of the National Organization and was the head of the staff. It is my experience as a member of the budget board there. Many of us agree that it has been necessary to strengthen the council with some kind of independent agency. She says, with President's permission: ▪ The Economic Organization has a high priority in the economy as independent of a scientific agency that has trust and reputation and is regarded as working professionally on the matters entrusted to it. The Agency then enjoys the confidence of professional drivers as well as labor movements. It has been entrusted with various projects of the Agency's advisers and members of the body who have consulted with the experts. Therefore, the National Organization guarantees a readily access to members of all categories, partners of the labour market and the general public to reliable information on economic progress, and is guaranteed by the Agency law. If the Agency is brought down, there will not be an independent agency involved in economic issues. Later, by permission of the president: It is a requirement that economic forecast be carried out as a maintenance for an economist, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [...] There is no evidence to suggest that the closure of the National Institute for Economic Affairs will lead to economic advantage. I especially liked this second-time thing, i.e. ▪ That it is carried out regardless of economic forecasts that support an economist's predictions, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which now agree on financial matters, as shown by an executive's introduction and by the bill. It also states in the opinion of a financial body at the government's financial policy, by permission of a president: It is expected that there is an inaccurate inaccuracies in national terms due to structural defects, agglutination of data, and the present uncertainty. As a result, it may be difficult to plan too well on a single projection and policy without considering the possibility of an alternative event. This is one of the things we really need, i.e. That there are more than one forecasts, for as we have seen, there are variations in the Organization's national interest in finance policy, much to bear. In foreign fields, this is considered to be an enormous amount. It further states on the financial body's opinion of policy, by permission of the president: Also, there is insufficient information on debt development, but the crude calculation of the financial Council, based on reports from the European Union Newsletter and Economic Organization, indicates a decline in 2017 and 2018, and, as such, in the course of 2017 and 2018. The underlying basis for this trend towards weight and independence is the lack of better diagnostics to support and improve its effectiveness. It says that economic growth declined considerably between 2016 and the estimated 2017, so it's less reliable. For fun, it can be said that when this matter was being discussed at a council in its time when it was decided to put an end to national interests, in April 2002, it was a challenge. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon did not compromise for any economic evidence that recommended the bill. Then, a member of the Freeman's Party, Sverrir Hermannsson, said that carrying the National Economic Organization's project to the Ministry of Economics and Iceland's Secret Bank was evidently bringing them closer to the rulers, the government itself. That may be what we have been criticizing. The long term range of management and saving was discussed. Just before then, we were discussing a change in the Council of Control, which costs a considerable amount of money and will cost more money, according to my opinion. Sadly, as the examples have proved over the years, it has been that way. I think that as soon as we decide to expand the Ministry we can't create an efficient outsider so that regardless of how much we're going to be able to strengthen the council as soon as we pick up these new public funds, the law that many people hope will soon be, at least in the end, so we can be as comfortable with them as possible and give them what they're supposed to give back. But this requires that we have a confidential relationship. There must be a certain confidence in information and that if it is not possible for members of Congress to get independent information, not just information from the Ministry - we can get some information from the Huns Bank, as long as it does not involve the law on him, but, of course, he cannot provide all of us with information. There's, of course, certain diagnostics we can get from The Habitat. But there would be someone who kept those matters totally in his hands. I have to agree that an independent, independent agency that will have an analysis of the economic and employment economy - for if business or other institutions, bank diagnostics, etc. Doing something like that, of course, they're stakeholders. We can't walk into the bank and ask for some analysis, information involved in these matters. The report says that the joint committee of state and community operates on the basis of a collaborative agreement that would provide information on the economic situation and the development of the financial state, and then provide a report on the economic issues. There is now the possibility that a deal has not been made between the state and rural society regarding the financial policy of the state and the community because it goes together. That means we're going downhill right now for the first time we're going to follow it properly from start to finish. That's a serious matter. I think if we had got, I don't know if I'm supposed to tell third party because there might be more of them, but if we had got an institution of this kind to support policy, to support specific calculations, and possibly to help the partners get together on these issues, we would be somewhere else. Although I have doubts about the fact that this bill will succeed, I hope it will. This brings us to our attention in the process we are now entering on official financial and financial laws that lie ahead. We'll discuss state finance policy soon. Then the plan will come up. It has long been observed that the council is not ready to carry out that assignment. Senators are in desperate need of help in order to do that work properly. If we are to learn such information, we need better access.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u56	President. It is a prerequisite to make a recommendation. When it was presented, the last assembly, and I was allowed to make that claim, I also felt that it was a milestone. The evidence that has opposed the changes proposed in the Senate is most likely to conflict with the permanence of the Constitution. Now we can get comments on the matter and finally determine if the matter is being handled. I wouldn't think the President would allow a case that wasn't deemed acceptable because it would violate the Constitution of the country, that it would be discussed. This bill suggests changes in the activities of the Parliament, the life-time of the Parliament, the judicial handling of the cases and the arrangements for the work of regular committees. 48th. A current law on the General Assembly states that non-final political affairs will collapse at the end of the council. As a result of the rule, if you are not available in the current legislature, you need to reimburse the matter at the next legislation, they want to keep the matter alive in the hope of receiving it for committees and Assembly Halls. It should be noted that the cases that have been submitted and that are recommended today, many of them, have truly been reassigned over and over again. In it we want to make those who make our name these changes. I continue to read the report on the subject: This arrangement has been somewhat critical. This may result in a case of Congress being held at a committee and then falling into a state where it has not been discussed or that its treatment has not been completed before the end of the council. The arrangement gives the committees and a great deal of committees the authority to stop them from getting normal treatment and resulting in votes at the Assembly Hall. This must be considered a major fault in the arrangement where the thorough democratic debate of all members of Congress should be handled at all levels. Each session should receive full and complete concierge treatment and be discussed in three discussions at the General Assembly in case of a legal bill and two discussions in the case of a judicial hearing. The General Generals assumes that the committee's committee will give its members an article on the matter of Congress referred to and considered by the committees as a basis for a discussion of the relevant matters at the Assembly Hall, and in the end, it is the body of Congress itself that shall be concluded into Congress. However, it has often been another and, in fact, a president or a greater part of it has mentioned the possibility of delaying a case on the committee for so long after the council to resolve the matter. However, according to 2 mg, this should be maintained. Section 15. Congress may include a quarter of the members of the committee requesting that the committee attend a meeting and attend a judicial hearing. There is no rule, however, in the council that calls on a decision on the matter of Congress, nor can certain members of the committee ask for an opinion on the matter or reprisal. In the North countries, the life - span of Congress is somewhat different. The European Parliament is given from Denmark, where the same rule applies, i.e. At the end of each legislature, when they did not receive their final payment, Congresss fail. In Norway, the general rule is that Congress can survive the terms of the term. Undecided tops of government can be recorded in the next season to be suggested by a prime committee who has previously been considered to be such by the government. In terms of Senate matters and on the committee it is permitted to adopt them at the next assembly within the same terms, unless the members of the Parliament or the members of the Parliament retract their case. In Sweden it has to be settled during the terms of the election when it was submitted. If the regular committees were unable to submit their opinion before the end of the terms, the case is deemed to be terminated. However, the premise is that the Council itself can agree that there will be a matter planned for the first legislature of the next election period. The Finnish Congress has established the rules that if Congress is not available at the current council, its treatment may continue at the next legislature unless there has been an election between them. In terms of government inquiries and declarations, they do not hold the value of the council, but the treatment of Ministers reports can continue at the next assembly if the council finds out. For the treatment of international matters, the rule is that their treatment will continue at the next assembly if necessary, and even if there is an election between councils. The bill involves the introduction to a combination of the strategy in the North countries. In 1st. suggests range 48. The General Assembly members will be changed so that Congress will not be removed until the end of the election period. This allows for an assembly case that did not receive the final payment of that legislature when it was submitted to the next assembly and then to complete their political treatment. However, a traveling overseer, whether a senator, a Senate committee, or a minister, is put back on trial if that is the case. Such a situation might be considered when circumstances involving Congress have changed and the aims of legislation are no longer practical. It also includes a direct requirement for members of the Parliament to resolve all the issues referred to to to them at the end of each legislature council. The provision is designed to help deal with issues that arise in committees. However, it is decreed that the committee can be dismissed as a matter of Congress on the current legislation, while continued discussions on the matter of Congress may be requested by the next legislature. So it can be seen that members of the Parliament deplore a number of cases in the spring or in September and then discuss matters immediately during the new legislature. This is exactly what the first act of the law opens by not limiting the life span of Congress to each legislature body. If this bill is legal, it is clear that several technical issues, including those related, have to be addressed. The life span of the Parliament, such as due to language numbers and other factors in the case of the council, is not considered to be a major problem for the move. It is estimated that the changes the bill will strengthen the work and democratic activity of the Council. A bill similar to this was submitted to the 138th legislature but was dismissed from the president on the basis of 2 mgr. 43. g. Parliamentary law. When it is determined that the movers will be allowed to proceed with a administrative and surveillance committee and they will be assessed at the NTSB if the bill is considered to be a change in constitution, and the order to be dismissed by the President is to be dismissed. According to the movers, the bill does not include a change in constitution. The constitution distinguishes the terms of the terms of the election and of the legislature. The distinction is made that, as with a legislation, regular members of the Parliament are discussed, such as Twenty-two. it says that the president regularly establishes the General Assembly each year at 35 different levels. which says, 'The most difficult Council is to meet each year on the first day of the month of October...' in 44 C.E. The Constitution is referred, not to the Generals, but to the Generals. In contrast, between 52 C.E. and 52 C.E. says: "The Council chooses and directs the president. If the term was to be interpreted, then the term "Salve of the Synod " should be interpreted in 44th. so that there is a legislation, it would also mean that a new president should be chosen at each legislation, as 52 C.E. From the above, it is clear that the Constitution does not stand in the way that the bill allows to change the assembly in the way it commands. This is very important to me, since two former presidents of the Aldulis have recently been interviewed, which claimed that this was a violation of the Constitution. I feel sad that it is their interpretation simply because it is very well explained in a report that it is not. But now we have the opportunity to take it very closely into account in a administrative and monitoring committee, which I believe is absolutely needed. I've always wondered that we senators can't agree that if there are some cases of evil, evil design, so cruel that they don't deserve Congress, we'll ask ourselves: " Why can such a case be presented on any level? If there's no quality index, if this is the only reason - I've heard it from many members of Congress, and especially in the last term, I often heard it from the left green, older generation that it would be good to bring it back and forth again because it would always be better and better. If so, may I please ask the members of the council whether it would be wiser to be more careful before making the decision. There's also something else that's been said, and I heard the last one this morning, and that's about the basics of the government. Now we're getting this kind of surrogacy over us that government primers come in and that's a lot of pressure to finish them in a very short time. They are often taken into account by variations, and that means unscrupulous legalization. In many cases, when faced with pressure and failure to complete the situation, some people feel comfortable with it, and they are sent back because the bills are not yet ready. I feel like there's such a situation going on. The recent failures in a large bill have been made to social security. There is also a shocking error in the laws of foreigners that need to be corrected. When they are taking huge legal columns, such as a general review of extensive policy and administrative factors, I think that we senators should ask that things be done better. I understand that it is working to look only at Norway when it comes to doing things better before they come in here, but if it is so that there's this huge explosion of counsellors where they want to show that they were doing something and everything is demuted here, as is the 100 cases that should be completed during this brief council, the tension could be relieved by allowing matters to live between members of the council. It's not like we're changing governments between Congresss. It's not like we're changing councils. We're just going on vacation. I'm hoping that the great innovation that has taken place at the Council will make us really change our tactics, that we don't just say we want it better. You feel like you're in the loop. Suppose you were writing a paper, finishing a paper, at the last word, and you got a lot of very smart, respectable people who have expertise in the case, and when you're putting a lid on the essay, the last letters fall apart. And this happens over and over again, four times in terms, four times during the next term, we can talk about decades. Some cases have been presented five times, ten times. Often, members of the Parliament are unable to complete their affairs during the terms of the term, since they will always have to make repeated efforts. Government bills always come first. I hope those senators who have spoken for their efforts to promote the General support of this matter. I hope so. Suppose people sit by the computer, and it collapses, and everything has gone. Its contents are all in the cloud, and it can be reached and continued but no, it must not. I'd also like to point out that it's one thing to say for members of Congress, but another thing is that it's dangerous democracy. We call for public attention to our activities, for the public to give us their opinion on matters mentioned in the committees. We get visitors, counselors, experts on committees to discuss various kinds of congregational matters. Then you can't finish before the council, before summer vacation. Then you have to, if you're lucky enough to get it on schedule and rematch it and get everyone back to be with you, etc., to get an opinion on the exact same thing. You need the experts to come back, even taking time off from work. Can you imagine the whole time that goes on this? There are certain organizations and organizations that are always assigned to the case. They have to write opinions over and over again. I wonder how much money you'll get into this with ASI. I wonder how much money you'll spend at the Human Rights Office. Children's agent? Is not the time of this party better spent than the time to write over and over again? They have to do it again, because there might be a slight change between us, for we cannot even have a score of change. No, it is not enough just to say that we want to change our practice, we need to show it by our actions. I'd like to close my speech again and again, thank the president for allowing me to measure the case because I didn't get it last, because the president interpreted it so that he would allow me to violate the Constitution, he didn't find the case approved. But it is clearly now. DV recently had an excellent conversation about the consequences of current conferences. By permission of the President: Since the first transfer of 30 years before the Supreme Court of Independence, Expansion, and the Bears of the Future, the number of laws submitted to the General Assembly has been held by the Supreme Assembly. At the same time, 40 council decrees have been proposed. Of these, 20 have been transferred to previous meetings. Pirat's maid says this work is an intolerable waste of time, and it's unprofessional. Of the 30 primarys submitted again, four are reassigned by stewards. The 26 are so - called members of Congress, 19 of which are promoted by members of the government side and seven of the members of the council. Here you can see some fairly familiar bills, to form a bill on the violation of the state's exclusive rights of liquor as Tót Björn Einarsson, a member of the Independence Party, is the first official. That matter has been raised before, but it has not been recommended. At that time, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir, senator of the Agency, has provided a bill for organ support. The bill of the same material has been presented twice, and twice it has been presented as a conquistador to this material. None of these terms were solved. Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who has never been resolved in previous conferences, is now serving a fourth bill on texting footage in the media. One Parliamentary proposal is now reinvented by Ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers reassigning a framework, but the case raised a huge debate during the last council and was not resolved. Government senators have reimbursed 15 Parliamentary decrees, and member statesmen reroute four of these. So third - time proposal for the development of professional cluster policy is proposed by circuit overseer Willum Þór Þórsson. Vilhjálmur Árnason is then the first member of the Parliament's resolution of international flights through Hornafjörður Airport, which is the fifth proposed proposal. As shown above, some of the above and repeated cases have been submitted in the past. Thus, many of these have been carefully discussed in committees of the council and have been repeatedly discussed in the Hall of Congress, with no changes promised for them. For example, now for the fourth time, Snægís Svavarsdóttir, a member of the United States of America, has proposed a Senate decree to reciprocate legislation on the protection, welfare, and fishing of wild birds and mammals. The proposal is followed, and it is specifically stated that she followed the motion unchanged from the time she was first submitted. Despite what was previously attributed, the above cases have come, not to vote, but to sleep on committees. Although some of the issues are certainly conflicting, it is just as common to discuss issues that do not involve major political issues and those of the transporters of the language come from a number of categories. The matter has been considered to change the law so that terms live between legislatures, but as the situation exists today, the dead will not be able to complete them by the end of the council. Such a change was included in the discussion during the last terms of work that bowed to the change in the constitution. However, these changes did not work out. Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Senator of Porta, has now proposed a bill that Congress should live between legislatures. That bill may also be reassigned. In DV, at dawn the bill of Birgitta referred to the opinion of two former presidents of the Allegris, both of whom responded to the change that the bill caused. However, they felt that there was a doubt that these methods could be changed only through a change in constitution. This says Birgitta disagrees with us and does not feel that there is any basis for overcoming the issue. It's just to be tested. Birgitta says that the current forms of work are intolerable for the council, as is true of the members who are called for Senate reviews. The need to make repeated comments on the same matter is unacceptable. Ask her if she thinks it's likely that this bill will now be decommissioned, she says it's a bit more so. ▪ I don't feel that this government is anything different from any other government that has gone before. It's probably not gonna change. It'll probably be this long after I'm dead. I'm going to hope, Mr President, that we will make this change now, because it's the Council that controls it. It's up to all of us. We can be very quick if there's concern that there are so many matters going through here that the council will block up. We're here to finish the case. Imagine how boring we would have been if we had burned down this brand of booze, for example. Then we could be talking about other things. If it were, it would have come out of the dough. Imagine if we could show respect for people who come to us, give us advice, reviews, because people lose faith that they have something to say. As a result, we may not receive so much wonderful reports. Imagine if we could agree that each group would get a lot of cases done at each council, and there would be other ways to draw attention to matters rather than to present bills that are never completed. Imagine if we were really going to do something different. That's one way to do it. This is a way to promote the council. I've been a spokesman for eating and waste of time. Now I suggest that me and the Parliament work against waste in the time of the Allied public speaker when it is time to be over and over and over again on a matter that we all agree on. Can't we just fix this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I think it's very interesting what we're discussing here. I agree with what. A senator in that I would like to improve my work at the Council. I think it's important that we make good use of our time and be careful about our contract work. However, when making changes, you naturally have questions. I don't know, perhaps it's conservative, perhaps it's caution, perhaps some sort of ◯ Nobody knows what has before the loss of a way, that questions will arise in me when I try to reflect how this is going to work, the bill will be law, compared to the system we have today, which I shall quite agree that there is nothing faultless, with all this recycling on the subject. The constant committees are pretty independent at their jobs. Counts 'em out. A senator clearly stated that it is possible to decide that firm committees will always present a committee opinion on matters that have been referred to them to the end of each legislature council? What I'm thinking is, if there's anything in this situation that can happen instead of a sleep-in at the Senate Committee, there's a chance that a case could be taken hostage at the council committee, so to speak, i.e. that matters are kept firm there and that this can prevent political discussions, which cannot be avoided when they are reassigned over and over again. [[The president calls.]] It'll just be slow every four years. How can you tell? A senator on this lawn? He may be the other side of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u58	President. I'm just not really worried about that. In contrast with the decision of a council on the life span of Congress, we members of the Parliament have an extraordinary access to the media, the public, to draw attention to the fact that something is being put to sleep on a committee. It's just that cases are now put to sleep. We're good. We're good. Lots of cases. I can't believe that we're going to start letting such worry cause us not to take on the big changes this would bring. This would mean, for example, that very much of these EEA regulations that are re moved over and over again and we're doing everything too late because it's just not the time to carry on with them -- I just think this would be a good business here. If they are taken hostage, we will have a means to draw attention to them. We have plenty of tools. I'm not worried that this will take the chance from the smaller parts to exert itself vigorously. I think much rather that this would result in our having a much more case agreed on by national agreement, and we all agree that it's going to be over here. On the other hand, if there is a problem that makes it clear that there is more to be done in the Council, there is no reason for more fear of killing them. I think this would, in fact, show us more honest than we've seen in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have to say, I'm not as carefree about this as I am. Senator. Of course, it is true that the majority of the cases each time can end all the cases he wants, but it is a political device to be able to stand in that chair and speak in advance. It's a machine I'm not ready to give away if I don't think what I get in return is not decent. I'm not saying it's really the case. As I said in my previous answer, I agree. A senator to improve his job as a senator. But I think this is an important point, i.e. that political discussions cannot be choked in a committee, just in reverse terms with what is now. At least I think it is important that this matter be discussed by the Committee to give careful consideration to it. That's not said in any way because I want to keep it to myself or do it in some way irrefutable. It's just an act that I think is very important to me in the democratic discussion. I feel that we must always keep our eyes open into changes, for even if what is being suggested is good, there may always be some consequences that may not have been anticipated. This is just one of the points that I think it is very important for us to consider and consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u60	President. I want to thank the senator that with these adjustments it is suggested that members of the Parliament be able to bring a case back, so if they want to bring it back, they can do it again. There's no need to be afraid, huh? Senator, this is being handled on the bill. When the bill was written, efforts were made to address the anxieties that have occurred at various levels when the case has been discussed at the General Assembly. Although this was not discussed directly, as it was now, I and many other members of the council have repeatedly discussed this matter in this public talk. It could be a pit in which you could fit, but it's dealt with in the bill. In view of the fact that this has been done, all I can imagine is that the left - green senators support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u61	Mr. President. I've been watching politics a long time. It's been a long time since I heard that a very important part of the Parliament's work was being carried on by committees. After having experienced it personally in the past few weeks and months, I have received confirmation of that statement. Unfortunately, though, I have gradually come to realize that in part this job is a repeated job. That is a shame. The program for the current meeting, 45th meeting, has seven legal initiatives. Four of them have been moved before, one being moved for the eighth time. Now I don't know what level that bills came up or why, because it's not everything. However, their lack of formality is quite tragic. For these matters, the conference hall is spoken over and over again. These are discussed in committees over and over again. The same parties are asked for reviews over and over and over. The same guests represent the committees over and over and over. It's always the same score. What a business. It's a disgrace. If this bill of ours becomes the law, the work will be more efficient and better. We'll get more done, and who knows who except the public belief in the Council is growing. Never, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u62	Mr. President. Sometimes you run ahead of yourself. I just wanted to express myself on this subject in view of the fact that we had the left of green in our history and, in fact, perhaps those older than two times here at the council, I presume. That's what I heard. I find this very interesting. I'd also like to try and improve my work here at the council. I agree with an authority who said that if they did not qualify or pass a constitution or something, they would hardly be put on trial, but, as one authority said, it is likely to be in the Congress's treatment whether it is and what needs to be done, whether they really need to make a constitution or something else. I'm not gonna say anything about it. But so will be the case. This explains how this is done in our neighboring countries, and it is suggested that we do some reconstituted thing, as we would like to do about it. But I find it very special when we call people over and over again in order to deal with the same issues and make them do something for us. That's what worries me. It might be interesting to ask questions about the subjects that have been repeated over and over again. No doubt it depends on how hot they are during the discussion, whether the comments on that matter have been reduced or even that even if they have a whole assembly between them or something. That would be interesting statistics. We have an example of the booze bill, which people in the community have an enormous view of, and it always comes in hard from comments about it. I'm not sure that's the way it is. I'm not from the fact that it has something to do with it, and in particular, Congress matters, that clients don't think that it's a reason to put up with it, they die on committees, they die in days, and so on. I can accept that it is also part of what we are to think about, not just from door to door, but in what ways we can work best. But I'm not quite from some point of view that some cases will improve as they get more coverage. I feel that this can apply sometimes, but I'm not necessarily sure that it justifies that for years the matter is being discussed without getting some sort of payment. I think we can do better here, and we should, of course, check it out. We were at a meeting of the management and monitoring committee this morning, me and what. A prominent speaker, who was discussing the Law covenant and how we had been able to deal with it. It's about time for the government case. They all come in here on the final meters. It was just discussed in the Committee this morning whether we were planning too much in a short period of time on the part of governments, putting too much emphasis on the fact that many cases were presented, not necessarily how they were, what their contents were, etc. Of course, it is not normal for e.g. The same government will re-route EU regulations between spring and autumn conventions, which are even under committees for some consideration. I can totally agree that we need to find some surface on it, like this one's been traced, e.g. ... thattheycancometotheadvise...... theycanlive. If they can't get there, i.e. if they cannot be recommended again or in any other way. As soon as we have the point, we have a work trajectory that requires more than we can reach it, and even more than ten hours have been spent on a discussion of the subject. Then there is not a proper time for a council or a nation. Then, of course, it is a question of what we can do because we have also failed to deliver the bill on national payment on the controversial issues being reborn, which the people have strong opinions on and describe in many ways. I don't know if things have to hold hands, it can just be that it doesn't have to be. Maybe we have to go somewhere in between to make this work. I agree with a storyteller that there's been a very, very bad problem in the system with this, which is naturally a massive waste of time, except for the paper waste. I was watching all the paper today, and I thought about all the stuff that has been spread here for years because there's always been a print case up and down and down and up and up again, and a very many unchanged. I'm here looking at an article by the former president of the council, the one who was here at the last council. Actually, the article is written a long time ago before he became president. In this regard, he objects that matters are handled quickly here. He doesn't think he is. He says that there is an equality, so cases are well thought - out in committees. It's that way in many ways, but it won't be that way about the government matters that come in at the latest on Friday, or even later on. It's not. We have two weeks after the last pay date until Easter. And then we have another month and a half to resolve all the affairs of the government and all the other matters that are already under way. Then there will be reviews and all of that, so the time will come for the Passover to pass on the subject. We can't start talking about them until after Easter, and then we'll have one and a half months with all the other stuff. There are a number of cases that there is not enough time for them. We know different pressures on committees, etc. The Economic and Business Committee, e.g. with an enormous number of cases inside now, requiring all kinds of visitors and considerable coverage. I think we should take this into consideration and see if we can't figure out how we can do this to skim off the bait that people have been worried about. We must be able to find a point on it here together with the lawyers who will likely give this matter a review, who are expected to be members of the administration rights and other people who will be told. I can't rule out anything in this material. I've been more in favor of this case than in the other, and I'm looking forward to seeing the reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u63	President. I want to thank you. A senator for her speech and many points made clear where I agree. I, of all members of the council who are anti-continental, no senator remained as continuously in a position of government as I am, so if I'm not worried about the least of the classes here for two terms, I don't think none of us should worry very much. Of course, if you were to take such a case and make such changes, you would never do so in order to interfere with the possibility of exerting yourself vigorously during the council. I wanted to, given the fact that we were talking about this meeting that we were both sitting there this morning on the Board of Directors and Control Committee, to say that it just said there seems to be some strange requirement that there should be some kind of a series of cases put in place. Nothing necessarily comes from stewards, this is a requirement in the community, and it is like a sign of hard work to put on ten matters and not one very successful case. This is something that we may be able to help the European Commission with, pointing out to the Commission that it is not necessary, and we will not give them nostrils if they do not present 150 cases in one week. I have to admit, and I wanted to ask you why. A senator would agree with me that when so many cases come in, you can't get them to work properly on the committees. You may not have a proper perspective because the same committee may be taking a very different issue and having visitors over each case, and the committee may read through 150 reviews of controversial issues. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council whether it feels that changing our thinking about how to do this work is absolutely necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, we know all of these agreements about an unworked government and all that has been discussed because there are issues, perhaps especially in the past, but this does not apply just to this government and that it was late. In the past, we know that things always come into the heaps of the last few days that can be said to be done. Often, it is not necessarily necessary to present itself directly at that time. It's just like they're being shoveled out just because they said they were going to do it. I think we've run into it now on the social security bill that we're gonna need more legalization. I liked what we saw this morning at the Ministry of Presidency when its representatives came to our meeting, the project they're trying to build up, trying to get more people to come to an early stage. I agree that we need to try to introduce it properly so that members of the council and others who want to come up with such matters have an opportunity to do so and know of it. I find this approach to being online very interesting. Of course, I'll agree with the last thing. A senator, has been living in the last term on the General and Education Committee and a budget board with a wide range of issues, both the board of budgets and organisations, and then on a universal and educational committee that was either intermediate level or college or whatever it was now, reading all reviews and all of that. We need more time than I expect we have, for example. This is the springtime issue of events presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u65	President. It would be so great if we could handle this little bill of change, you wouldn't have an anxiety in your stomach that you didn't get to ridicule that one word that can have an amazing impact on people's lives. I feel that a certain change of mind is being felt in many parts of the world as we approach to legalization. We may be safe with members of Congress, whether it's members of the board or government opposition, to say only to the government: "It's all right, you don't have to put out all these matters, as long as you're presenting a case that is absolutely urgent before the end of the council, we promise you that we will not call yourselves lawless. That may be a beginning. I wonder. We too need to change very much how we approach our work because we come to some frame that is somewhat old - fashioned, which has been around for a long time, and it somehow is kept by those who know him. Now it's like it's kind of a completely new council ever since I came in here. There aren't too many people here from the past. So, then, why not allow this innovation to change things? Still, I do not want to speak down the experience and knowledge of the people who had taken the lead, but sometimes it is a little difficult for those involved in a particular practice to accept new practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u66	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I agree that there is a need for a change of mind toward a lot of things and how we approach legalization. I feel that it has come to light right now, a person who has helped prepare laws on public finances. I have to say, there are disappointments now when we face the fact that their goals of law have not exactly been fulfilled, including those of the United States. because treaties are not reached, but are expected to be involved in achieving a joint result in public survival. It's very special that the government can actually decide, because it's the one who's trying to negotiate, not going to negotiate. I don't think that state and rural society have agreed to disagree. That's not what the law says. Of course, we know that we have a change of mind regarding the way we approach the laws, the work. We've run into walls and people have to be ready to find a way to meet. I think it applies to a lot of legal laws, whether they're new people or older people, that's exactly what we're supposed to consider, if we don't want to do a little less, than to sweep something through and even have little knowledge about what's going on. Often, whether you are a member of a larger or a smaller body of members, if you are on committees with many issues, you may not have time to do so. We need to be careful. That's mostly it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-21-45.u67	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct law change, No. 160/2008, of the blind, visually impaired and faint-blind service and knowledge centre. It's about reimbursement for children's glasses. I'm gonna go through the bill a little bit, i.e. whatever it is that changes. At 1st. Section 4. The law adds a new saying: Furthermore, the Agency will supervise the management because of the involvement of the state at the expense of children's glasses. 2.g. After Section 4. The law's coming up with a new branch, Section 4. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Children's pool deals. The minister shall set up a regulations that require the participation of the State at the cost of wearing glasses. This includes: recommendation for: 1 children receive paybacks from wearing glasses up to twice a year to ten years of age, 2 children from the age of 11 to the age of 18 receive payment on wearing glasses once a year, $3.4 percent of the price of the eyeglass per price level and 75% of the price of the environment, 4 children to ten years of age, who need eyeglasses as part of their treatment regimen to develop as normal as possible, receive full payback for bifocals per year (eyeglass and environment) as you will be selected in consultation with an ophthalmologist or optometric specialist. The person in charge of visual impairment, on behalf of the State, looks for an annual display offer and a check at a glass pool hall, making a small amount of payment at the lowest price. Section 3. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2018. I gave the bill the same primary component as the existing council case, but it was not finished, it was at 145th. After measuring the case, requests were sent to 23 parties. In the review of the Service and Knowledge Centres for Blind, Blind, and Blind-blind Subjects from April 8, 2016, it was estimated that the approved bill would result in about 167 million. K. State funds spending as a result of increased participation in child's glasses and an increase in the budget of the Agency's activities for projects that would result in changing its role in this field that could study one standard. Is the financial impact of the bill on government funds in harmony with that. The Service and Knowledge Centre also pointed out that although the Agency has carried out a reimbursement for glass buys from the beginning of its work on January 1, 2009, this management is not among its defined tasks. This indication is ignored in Article 1. The bill suggested that the management of the state's activities at glass buys will be among the specific projects of the Service and Knowledge Centres. This would confirm the current arrangement and be taken out of all doubt about the duties of the Agency in this field. Other proposed changes to the law No. 160/2008, the service and knowledge centre for blind, impaired vision, and faint blind individuals, are the same as in the bill submitted to Council 145. It is suggested that the law be added to a new article that will make it clear that the State is involved in the cost of wearing glasses. The change aims to clear up government payment regulations so that children will be paid to buy two glasses a year to ten years of age. Children under ten years of age may require that they change their glasses more than once a year, so it is only natural that the State will be involved in the cost of wearing glasses twice a year during this age. It is also suggested that from 11 years of age and until the age of 18 years, the state participates in the cost of a single pair of glasses a year. The fourth will require full reimbursement on the basis of glass buys for children who need their glasses so that their vision is properly developed. In such cases, appropriate eyeglasses are so important to the child's natural development that it seems right to be fully paid from the common fund so that no child needs to be without them. Even though eyeglasses for this group of children are really part of medical treatment, not an aid tool. In current regulations for the involvement of the State in the cost of glasses, No. 1155/2005 is required for participation in the cost of buying children's glasses twice a year until the end of the third year, every year from four to eight years of age, and every other year from 9 to 17 years of age. The change is to increase government payment by buying older children's glasses. It is suggested that the government's payer will be 75% of the bidders on the glasses and glasses as the member of the service at the reduced level of vision, or as a means to raise, for his service. Could it be that Kingdom Halls took care of this aspect? There is no relevant requirement for updates or review of the amount of money due to prices and no such changes have been made since the Regulation went into effect in December 2005, as per Article 2. 335 to the 145th legislature. That was a request I proposed to the then social minister. This has resulted in the loss of government support for children's eye purchases, in line with the inflation of development and the aim of the procedure, in some respects the courtyards. Hence, a transporter believes that it is both right and time to make the change that the payer will be determined by a certain amount of cost, as above. These are not so many individuals who are especially involved in the group involved in needing glasses to make their vision normal. So I think that in order to keep them from getting a normal view like others, they will not be able to become scarred because their vision does not develop that can lead to blindness. We're talking about such diseases, including, of course, the State should react. Also, there is a serious shame that the price limit should not have gone up for so long, as shown in the answer to my inquiry to former social and housing minister on these matters. This is also part of bridgeing the gap between smaller hands, those living in poverty line, or those who simply cannot afford to buy glasses for their children despite receiving support. Support goes down a year ago, not just for the youngest children, but for the older ones as well. Therefore, I think that the expense taken here is small compared with the quality of life it brings to those who need it. A respectable president. I really hope that this matter will work out and get good comments as soon as it gets settled on a welfare committee - I suppose it will, even though I'm not sure of it. However, I think it is likely that the case will be addressed to that committee, given that it is part of the Department of Social Affairs and that sort of organization. I'm gonna make this work. I hope, indeed, that this will not drown in government final affairs but will be discussed professionally in the Committee.
