ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 148, on credit issues, from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u2	The president makes it clear that a longer lunch is expected today, between the clock and the clock. 13 and 14. For committee meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u3	As reported at a meeting yesterday, Presidential proposals have been received as follows: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Council (reduction of pay according to salary development since 2013) etc. ; J.; J.; J.; J. 260. ▪ 1st. If it's allowed. Along with other programs proposed by the President of the Generals. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Gunnar I. Guðmundsson, Smári Mccarthy, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, and Einar Brynjólfsson. A vote for the proposal is now made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u4	It's really very simple. We are suggesting that this meeting session be started immediately by the Pirata Commission. The reason for this urgency is this, and the time pressure is so high, that 70% of labour contracts are in danger. After this weekend, there may be 100 bargains, that's the time pressure. It is, in fact, simple, that it is merely that the General Council orders to leave the pay development of the employees with the public's pay development. This bill is an opportunity for the General Assembly to settle down in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u5	A respectable president. A team of left greens will support that the case is scheduled for today. In view of what may be presented in the matter. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's statement that the matter is subject to a particular time pressure, for the sake of the material, we feel that it is clear, in comparison with the existing program of the council, that there is no other part of the day's affairs. Thus, we believe that the Council is allowed to deal materially with Pirata's proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u6	V.E.G. President. I want you to know that I do not support this program proposal. I'm not going to go to the subject of the bill on this subject, but I have to make some comments that Piratars make a program of this kind at the end of yesterday without having a new chance at the meetings of the council groups or at meetings of the prime committee or elsewhere to stress that this matter is being arranged. It wasn't done. We had a meeting on Tuesday, where the program was scheduled for the week, and nothing changed from Tuesday to Wednesday on this issue. I have to say that the Piratars could have accessed the situation in such a way as to try to come to an understanding of how to get the subject on the program rather than to be sneaking with it under tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u7	Madam President. I don't care which way this case is being pronounced. It matters, we're under pressure of time. This is an excellent part of the program today, some of which may be boring, but none of them are very urgent. However, regardless of what we do, it is urgent that we take our stand on this matter, and the Group of Congress supports the procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u8	A respectable president. The presidents of all classes and presidents, including Pirata, met in December and discussed how to handle the matter of choice. They wondered if it would be possible to eliminate all three decisions, i.e. Regarding judges, officials, and then elected representatives, they concluded that this was not an option. Rather, they had to follow the way in which the presidents and leaders of all classes, including Pirata, wrote a letter to the prime committee asking for a specific operation performed and reduced pay, the Council of Congress, about 150 yous. K. to meet the views of a job market. I feel that if we are going to change our mind here today and take the matter into consideration, it is only natural to conclude that we already have the position to take the matter on or dismiss it. Because we have not changed our mind, we senators will oppose the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u9	President. We're changing our minds on the basis of information. New information was found. When the presiding process did not work, as the labour market members have said, we try another way. It's another way, and this is a way, which really means that the advice of fools works by law. The reason why the case is at this point is because it is clear now and has been said that collective agreements will probably not hold. This would be a way of reconciliation for the General. A general assembly would take steps to reconcile the workforce. That's what we can do. The reason why the case was not made on Tuesday and has not been pronounced otherwise is that it was delayed on the committee stage, it would finish it there. Me and the senators always have to run to a committee field to care for the committees but can put us in harm's way. It'll hold up all these matters. Think about it, it slows the senator's work on important matters at important times, as it is now. That is why the matter is late. Why a program? A day's proposal means that the matter needs to be planned immediately. And it needs to be on the program right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u10	A respectable president. In view of the circumstances in the labour market, it is clear that the actions taken by the Presidency Committee following a letter to the Presidency Committee from the Committee of Directors are simply not enough. The increase in the terms of the Parliament under the advice of a board was far beyond the general labour market development, and we can see that this upsets collective labour agreements. That's why this bill comes as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson has talked about this, and this program proposal, because it's a matter that needs to be discussed. This is a very important thing. It is important that we work hard to get the subject started. It would be a real challenge if the council would finally set matters first, rather than be in a rush.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u11	A respectable president. In this matter of vote, the convention council of revere is not going to support the case. I, like other class presidents, supported the decision. We wrote the Council's Presidency Committee, and we asked for it to change its guidelines. Here, however, the matter is taken up quickly. Let us not forget that it was four months after the decision of the Council of Elders. It's a perfect prelude to talk about some new information coming up right now. We've known about the decision, and we see no grounds now for anyone taking this case up quickly trying to hit his own chest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u12	Madam President. I want to say something. It seems to me -- no, it's all the ministers on red. This does not go through right away, which means that there are five days of possible job resolution. The General will not intervene immediately. It's still an opportunity later today. That's what the President can do. There's still a chance tomorrow. We'll have an opportunity Monday, and then Tuesday's our last chance. I'd like to direct it to the workers at the labour market who are not pleased with the position that the bill has been submitted, a bill of dressers, and they can send in comments about the case even if it's not up to the committee. That's what we wanted now, to get the case to a committee and call for visitors to come and reviews would be sent in. We cannot have guests before a committee because the matter is not mentioned, but anyone in the country can send in reviews on the matter. I encourage those interested in it to send in reviews, which put pressure on getting this case on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u13	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u14	Madam President. I want to go to the highest. Secretary of finance, for further explanation of words he made in Castlight on January 31, where he was asked a great deal about money laundering, demurrections, and tax collections. There, the secretary of finance told the following, by permission of a president: We're going to deal with this with a great deal of urgency, both with the State Department of Internal Affairs, we're going to work with an tax investigator, a federal tax manager, all the tax agencies in the state. I think there may have been a lack of a political fighter for this. It's been a little bit like you're calling him -- and testifying to the highest degree. Ministers until Helgi Seljan, the overseer - some character at the Ministry of finance, which was not tailored enough. Perhaps the financial minister himself said, "Hey, we're going to fight for this, we're going to tell this kind of cheating war. Then we're both talking about the rip-offs and the black economy, and we just have to fight it with all the advice we can. As soon as I celebrate the declaration. Minister for these matters to be top priority in his ministry and under his leadership, I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister: Can his words, then, be understood as a significant change in direction in the Ministry during his arrival there? Why is he referring to these comments? Is he then referring to his predecessor in a work now serving as prime minister, the highest? The minister of finance has not been a political fighter against tax returns and deportations?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u15	A respectable president. No, it's not that I've been referring to the highest level. Prime Minister. This is, as the quote pointed out, an expression that I take to heart at this point. I have said, however, that I place great emphasis on combating taxes, whether in demurrections, in the black economy, or in other ways. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has given me an opportunity to relate here that I have made two committees, one to continue the study of questions raised on the basis of the national report and a committee that will specifically discuss the black economy and will help to reduce the risk of tax gains there. Both of these committees are to give their opinion this spring. I hope that the results of their work will be that we can fight with great intensity against the black economy and against the debinos, which I think both I and I will. A senator agrees that there is a severe lesion in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u16	Madam President. At the top. Ministers agree absolutely that it is important to fight our own communities and tax collections. I asked the highest. A minister to his Word, for we naturally assume that words are related to responsibility, especially when it comes to government officials. V.E.G. In his show, a minister made it clear that he felt that a political contender had been missing in the Ministry of finance to combat societies and taxpayers. So I must repeat my question: Ministers that these matters have not been maintained sufficiently during the last term? Why is he here? What minister is he referring to when he says that it was not a political campaign in the Ministry of finance to combat societies and taxpayers? We must make that requirement in view of the fact that the time had come during the interview when those words fell to the highest level. A minister explains what those words mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u17	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out. A senator wants me to run the history of a financial minister. Her career president was a financial minister for some time, and then other fine financial ministers have been. I say, however, that the black economy has grown in Iceland. It is very important to take full action against it. I've said that I'm putting it first in my life. Even though not all the world's problems have been solved before I arrived, it does not stop me from taking a course against that social ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u18	A respectable president. During the last weekend, the seaman strike cover was on the alert. Ship was decommissioned before votes came to an end. We've heard a lot from a meeting where the Minister came and ended the strike. Seamen's treaties claimed to have woke up with a bad dream at a meeting with a minister. At the end of the strike, many people keep in mind the media coverage. First, the highest. I ask: What offer did the minister of the agreement that they could not refuse?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u19	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I think it is important to note that it is a great joy that we now face the fact that our ships are back in the water and are beginning to sail back to the harbor with a full passage. It is also very important that the parties resolve this, without any formal access to the state at the end. How happy we are that the issue is over, the ten - week - long issue of which people fully understood their responsibility! They met, and the conversations I've had, both with builders and with sailors, were very clear. They recognized their responsibility and wanted to shoulder it. It was reversed, for a time it was difficult to talk. In the end, what I presented to fishermen as well as to builders was the right to point out that it consisted. in a certain source of the structure, they entered the offer I introduced to sailors - that was a suggestion they did not then follow. They decided to resolve the situation between them. Therefore, I feel that now that the issue is solved, that it has been signed for negotiations, that, as I said before, to sea again, we look forward and try to make peace around the seaside, try to learn from this dispute. What is it that we learn? I think the terms in the contract are very important, that you see how it's best to negotiate. Why don't we face a little bit of reality, like. that men copy possible groups of ships or deforestation? I think it's an important thing that men now go together over, i.e. Seamen and fishermen. I think that there is nothing more to be left than to look forward in an effort to ensure even greater peace of mind on this important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u20	President. I repeat the question, what offer was the highest? A minister gave contracts they couldn't refuse? And number two, who was the minister's informal approach, exactly? Why not agree on a common declaration of the contents of an undeveloped offer, so that neither party can point to the other on the issue and the ocean beyond doubt that a minister has not done arbitrarily?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u21	Madam President. It was quite clear on my part, and it was repeated in several weeks of discussions with the sailor movement as well as the developers that I would not go by the specific route, to restore the seaman discount in one way or another. That all along was clear. I introduced and made a suggestion, including. It meant, as far as you could go, because I was trying to connect with the demands of sailors who were normal in the past, that was normal, at least It is not unusual to have a seaman discount in years before, but today there is another view. So I tried to connect other classes to such benets, more than sailors, with certain limitations. It can be said, as it is, that it could only be done with the development of the project, it must also be brought forward. It says that the issue was solved, so that's what we're supposed to think about. Instead of what happened in the past, we are more likely to discuss how we can build up both sailors, this rocky class that works in a troubled environment, and the trust that surrounds the structure. I believe it is the most important role of the Generals during this terms, the building of reconciliation around the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u22	Madam President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Secretary of health. We are growing older, and we clearly need to build a new nursing home. Of course, we can respond by giving people the opportunity to live longer in their home, but there are also faults. Pair age e.g. At any given time, however, a lover may have to become a nursing nurse in his later years, encouraging his aging. On the other hand, I'm going to ask in a further building of a nursing home later, but now I want to know the answers: How to finance today's nursing homes. There are several billion missing, and despite a frame deal made last fall, money is lacking. The situation varies in rural areas; some run nursing homes and others do not, and e.g. is the town of Akureyri, after this frame deal, to pay 250 million. K. A year with the operation. It tells itself that money is being taken out of other community functions, culture, art, sports, and other factors that make the town competitive. This needs fixing. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister to what plans he has to improve this problem, the time line, and whether he has already contacted a health - care company and the rural communities in the country that run a nursing home.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u23	Madam President. Thanks for the inquiry. I agree with what. A senator to see that the matter of nursing is very important. There is no doubt that many of them have been in significant business problems. The work has especially gained since collapse, where, as in many other places, payments did not follow fully costs or prices. That frame deal. A senator witnesses and was submitted and approved by all nurses of nursing homes, reminds me, late last year, putting extra money into the seminar, and of course has helped. But there's no question that you need to keep looking at this business and have conversations with the operator. During the weeks that I've served as minister, I've had meetings with a company of welfare services, discussed these matters, and studied. I haven't had a meeting with any community that runs a nursing home, but one of them. I even have some. A meeting later today with a local nursing club. We are aware of this and are constantly considering it. I'm very sensitive about this, and I'm very understanding that it was relevant for those who run a nursing home that it can be done in a decent way and by law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u24	Madam President. I sincerely believe that the highest. A health minister is interested in solving this matter. However, it was reluctant to agree on the framework agreement of many rural communities simply because it was only a small step toward improving the environment. So I'm witnessing this morning at the head of the Senate of Akureyri, Halldór Guðmundsson, he says in an interview this morning, by permission of a president: ▪ So it is that the expenses paid to us for the day are only due for the pay. Another cost of operating, including rent for housing, remains. If there is to be a delay in this, it means that some societies in the country simply pay off their business and take from other categories of subjects and reduce the quality of life of their inhabitants, impairing their competitiveness. Why do I want to know, what's the time line on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u25	Madam President. In the 9th. Idolatry of the Elderly, No. 125/1999, says that participation in rural society should be no less than 15% of the target cost and in some cases the proportion of rural society is higher. This is a foundation cost and, as a result, the basic cost of building housing has been applied to autodiversities and rural areas for contributions from the elderly's labour fund to repair and maintenance, up to 20% of expenses. This, of course, is part of the ongoing analysis, and I'm very aware of and have been studying. Late last year, however, it may not be enough. I'm afraid a clean time line is not as accurate as it is right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u26	President. A new government puts medical matters, health care, first priority. It is said in the collaborator declaration that there will be a health policy that is compatible with trust in health care, improving human health, and contributing to the health of the people of the country. All of these are good words, and we may all agree with them. Most of us have had ambitions to be on the lead in health care, that our people can expect, be sick, enjoy good health and good health care. In the end of the election, there were particularly questions that came from power, which is a supportive society for young people who have been diagnosed with cancer and their caregivers. Then, with the permission of a president, he answered with questions that governments did not provide enough money to buy medicine for cancer patients: ▪ A bright future would not allow it to happen on its watch that cancer patients would not receive the best medicines available because of the pharmaceutical saying system or economic situation right now. V.E.G. During these days, a minister was asked in the media about these matters and precisely about this declaration in the controversies of the election. He then answers that the group of paintings was seriously over the course of plans. I'm asking, "What does it mean in the highest mind?" HCP to put health care into the foreground? Is it not true that because of cancer patients, financial standings will not be prevented from the spread of cancer - diseased Icelanders from having the best possible service?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u27	Madam President. Thanks for the inquiry. No less is the answer to elections made by a position known, that cancer patients have been greatly involved in their treatment costs, and have even been paying hundreds of thousands and up to a million, and over a million in some cases. This is also a reference to the changes that will be made to the payment system that was approved for elections and is being implemented in May, where the total cost will be covered. When it comes to medicines, the cost of the existing problem, and particularly S-labelled hospital drugs, which are specifically anticancer medicines, has been established repeatedly. Of course, we are bound, like other lawsuits, by the budget adopted by the Allied Parliament and approved by 2017 this December. I have specifically proposed to the government that the situation is serious and that it is necessary to add to the suit of commitments and to be able to live by the induction of new and essential drugs. The government has agreed to hide me and the highest. Economic and financial secretary trying to process this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u28	President. I want less than ever. A minister is to say that the future's answer to Bears in the process of election directly meant that it would not happen on the watch of Bear's future that cancer sufferers could not get the best medicines they could get. Those are big words. They are not presented with any conditions or footnotes. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if he does not propose, in the work of a bill for financial support in the current year, that the funds of this particular team, the seminary under him, will be put in order to ensure that the cancer sufferers enjoy the best medicines available in the world as soon as possible on Bear's future watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u29	Madam President. Yes, it is, as shown in the reply to elections, that the future will be as good as possible. A senator is interested. It is now that after a collapse, the United States has used new drugs with the same force as other nations, who have achieved the best in it. But we have only succeeded in doing so and have continued to do so. It is important, however, to note that it is not automatically certain that new drugs are always best. It takes time to take medication, find out how useful it is, what side effects, etc. Therefore, it may not necessarily be best for the Icelandic health authorities to be first. Rather, it may be best for us to be in the first wave, so to speak, nations when it comes to the induction of new medicines with regard to side effects and their effectiveness. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we want to do the best we can. I will do my best as health minister to stand there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u30	V.E.G. President. I'll have a conversation with the highest. Financial and economic ministers, and they're talking to him about worth taxation and prevention and operating group, as the last of them. As a matter of fact, financial and economic ministers ordered to review rules, including ... aboutprecautional tax. In a government contract, there is no mention of organized youth, youth, or sports. That word simply cannot be found in a government covenant, let alone the action required to promote such activities. So when it comes to their affairs, the government's deal is pretty bad. I would like to highlight the importance of organized activities involving young people in this area. I went to the end of my last term, with some arraignment. Councilmen, a matter where the main objective was to support the activities of sports, childhood and adolescent members, mainly to promote the volunteer work on which these activities are available, and then to meet a very urgent need for construction and maintenance of workers. As a result, the Allied Council agreed to propose. The Economic and Business Committee, to refer the case to the management group at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. So I want to ask the highest. Minister to the situation, whether or not the group has made any suggestions. What is the situation of the cases I referred to? Third, I'd like to ask if we're at the highest level. A government intends to use such measures to further support the country's sports and youth activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u31	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I share his interest in sports and youth service, and I believe it is very important that they be strengthened by the best advice they can get. I have to admit, however, that this group has not come to me, and I have not yet received any news of his work, so I cannot say if they have come up with any suggestions. At least I can. Confirm that they have not turned their suggestions back after I arrived at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I can't help but wait for the suggestions and conclusions of this group that turn to the case I mentioned, which I think is very important and important, and can help the current highest level. A government to promote the prevention and general health of the people through the organized youth service of children and teenagers. Research confirms the preemptive value of sports and the participation of children in such organized activities greatly reduces the likelihood of any abnormal behavior. I don't believe anything but to the highest. The government used this strongest weapon in a preemptive struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u33	A respectable president. I reiterate that I completely agree with what you're saying. A senator on the importance of sports and youth service. I think that there's nothing we can do better than improve it. Over the years, I have shared in such a work with the goal of trying to promote it, and I see that it does well. I can totally agree with the senator that I too look forward to seeing the results, and it would not be inferior if it helped the highest point. Government now as it will help the youth of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u34	A respectable president. I requested special discussions about transportation in the capital area, mainly because I think they matters are very important and they may have received far too little attention in this hall. We cannot overlook the fact that most Icelanders live in the capital area and here come most tourists, they travel around this area. There's been a considerable amount of traffic in the area now. However, we in this hall may look forward primarily to the future, and according to the regional structure of the capital area, it is assumed that in nearly years or up to 2040 the population will increase by about 70,000. Then there's no resort plan for an increase in tourists. Since 70,000 people are referring to those living in Kópavogi, Hafnarfjörður, and Garville combined today, this represents a considerable number of inhabitants. In the regional structure of the capital area, a change was decided to take place in years before 1985•2012 increased the population by a similar number, or up to 70,000. Then a population of over a hundred and sixty - five went to 35 inhabitants. Hence, this meant that the area was significantly dispersed, which means that more time is needed to travel in places, resulting in a marked increase in the number of cars, from 67,500 to 125,500 at that time. The rural areas in the capital area have agreed to change this course, placing much emphasis on public transportation and city line. There is much solid solid agreement on the importance of changing travel practices. So I'd like to ask a minister what vision he has on the city line and transport in the capital area, if the highest. A minister agrees with the importance of this project. I would like to remind them that the mayors in the capital area and the mayor have written an article and discussed it there. It is also clear that the cost of such a project is considerable; it could run in the range of 40 to 1,100 billion dollars. Then I'd like to hear from a minister whether he doesn't think it's normal for the state to come into the funding, for it should be pointed out that if the city line was not attacked, there would still be 100 billion goods to take over, and traffic levels would increase. Nevertheless, the largest part of that cost would be the State compared to the present division between state and rural society. Although I specifically discuss the urban line and the growth of public transport, it is not to be considered as the only solution in the region; however, planning for the regional structure is to be expected to have to work for at least 30 billion in this area. It is not that, though focusing on public transportation, we expect all wheels, corridors, or buses or city lines. As yet, most Icelanders will probably travel to some extent with a private car, and it is necessary to attack the local root system for improvement. I'd like to hear about the Minister's vision of this. As to the funding of new projects and maintenance of roads, a minister has recently presented interesting ideas that are subject to funding the foundationway to the capital area, and I look forward to having a discussion about the conclusion of the work. I'd like to know if there was any job started at the Ministry in evaluating the effects of transport energy exchange may have on the income of a government fund. Clearly, we will have considerable pay if we continue to do so. I hope we can achieve the result of a large percentage of our vehicle fleet being driven by electricity. Then we can ask ourselves, " How will I be planning to fund building and new projects in the road system? ' There are other things that I would like to come by and do afterwards, but I look forward to having a conversation about it and restate that I think it is important that we also discuss transportation in the capital area. Of course, I know that transportation in the country is very important and that the country is very important, but it is also important to us in the capital area, and really to all the inhabitants of the country, as well as tourists, that the traffic here is safe and that it is going fairly easily.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u35	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. The Kingdom's emphasis is made on a transport program. In general, the government has worked on the main objective of the transport programme on the land's urban, safe, environmental and economic transport sector as well as elsewhere. As we know, the founding of roads and the most efficient road system in the capital area is the responsibility of the road industry, whereas the road system is responsible for its members. On the other hand, the strategy for the construction of traffic workers is in the hands of rural communities, and they are the most responsible for the future development of transport workers. The regional structure of the capital area, confirmed on June 29, 2015, provides the basis for a regional planning committee in cooperation with Vega's work on the state of the current infrastructure system, the future definition of individual structures. That work was to be completed last year, but it is expected that it will not be until autumn, this year. I do not lack the desire to contribute to improved transport in the capital area as well as in other parts of the country, and in greater traffic, but the general funds are, of course, a limited factor, as we all know here and we are very narrowly tailored to what our appearance is for this year. In recent years, traffic in the capital area has increased dramatically, with the hardest neck of the bottle in a car tour in the capital area today, as well as the busways of the Rhine Way and the Bavour Road. The transport programme expects it to be a mixed interface, i.e. the problem, however, is that there is no agreement with the authorities in Reykjavík regarding this. In a similar way, there is the Great Ways and Round Ways, one of the most dangerous roads in the country. It seems that this city's will does not exist in regard to the misdirected corners of the road. Whatever the case, the biggest projects in the city's capital area over the next few years are a dramatic road through Hafnarfjörður, Mosfellstown, and by Kjalarnes, a bridge of Southland road out of the city, a road of Hafnarfjörður Road, Eagle Road extension, Breyholt Road, the Slandjanes Way of Bust, to the extreme Dy Sunway. Recall that in 2012 a contract was made between the state and the country's union in the capital area, where the State commits to strengthen public transportation for ten years, with a total of 900 million each year, and even so. for the continuation of major projects in the capital area. The premise for this was the growth of passengers by means of public transportation, that it would double over the period to reduce the need for the construction of transport workers. Sadly, this has not worked out, as it was hoped, that only 14% of public transportation passengers will have increased by 2012/2015, taking into account population growth. In this regard, I wondered, " Is it time to look at the results of this cooperation and to reevaluate it and whether it is being used with proper emphasis? ' The city line has been here for a discussion, and we in the government are celebrating such a discussion, and the harmony is reflected between the local society in this important matter and will be deeply involved, in fact, in the Vegamaking and the Ministry's staff being involved in the work around these matters. As I mentioned, light - controlled street conventions at mallways and highways are still the most dangerous in the country, with high rates of accidents at high costs. It's too bad that we don't cooperate with the city authorities to take on important projects at these most dangerous corners of the country. To get to these financing items, I have appointed a team of workers to make suggestions on key initiatives in and out of the capital area where there would be a full success on all these key routes that would then be based on some kind of payment. This matter is being considered, and we will submit the results of that work for the council and other members of the council on spring days. Then we can decide if it seems acceptable to go a way to increase the new budget we have, which was referred to earlier as large numbers, such as the urban line of 4,40,100 billion, and ask whether the State would come up with the funding of our rural communities. Our budget for this year is 10 billion, so everyone sees what is a huge problem. Of course, if the factors we are having examined today are successful, it will greatly improve all traffic security in the most dangerous areas in the country. It is more important than tears to hear news of tragic accidents such as those on the roadside, where road policies are not separate. But it is not enough that my will stands to improve the safety of transportation and to pay for traffic, the capital must be involved, and my emphasis must be in the same way as we are doing that we are working on the State's part of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for asking for this discussion and the highest. Secretary of transportation for participating in it. I especially welcome clear answers to the highest. A secretary of transportation I've been trying to get from him in all transport discussions. Even if we do not agree, he clearly speaks of his will and should be welcomed. There are things to consider in this matter and the highest. A minister has talked about and is appointing a team to inspect the funding of transport workers in the area of the city. There's a lot to consider. He speaks of small amounts of building funds. The fact is, though, that the markets for road income have not been updated in accordance with prices and are not all used to transport. It may be the first step to do so before going in other ways. Roadtolls - sometimes people have been grumbling something together in this regard. They are a means of financing, which saves the money for the government, but there are road users who are environmentally poor and who are to reduce traffic control. If you are drawn up now, the main thing is to pay traffic is to drive more cars. The transport energy exchange strategy says, by permission of the President: • A transport fund will be reviewed to ensure that it provides sufficient tax pay for the construction and maintenance of transport workers. So it seems that this is the policy of the government in many matters, that it will be carried out in a number of ways. An population growth was tore up earlier. That's 70 up. People to the year 2040 need to come to and from places. If the structure and city line are not established, traffic tacrolimus will increase by more than 200%. There's 172 of you. parking lot in Reykjavík today. We will not deal with this increased traffic any other than to promote public transportation much. Just at the end of the day, I'm sorry, a respectable president, with a contract at the highest. A minister quoted regarding public transportation in the area of the city. [[The president calls.]] The Kingdom held up to him for only one year. [[The president calls.]] The following year a cutdown was completed and then again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u37	Madam President. First, I'd like to inform you that according to the General Code, I have an interest in the matter. In the summers, at the end of the council, I have to pay attention to all the funds and new projects, and that's what I really have to do with my life. If we first take up the funding and maintenance of new projects, the minister has talked about ways of setting up roads and taking pay from those who drive the roads. The government said that taxes should be put on no higher ground than those given the terms of vocabulary and that those who drive the roads should be paid in accordance with the tax. Such tax returns, however, are highly inaccessible. It takes a lot to be with people and to set up an inculturation, to set up wood, to collect this fee. So the question is, Is there another way to collect this fee, to maintain roads, and to take up new projects? Yes, there is and there's a fee, it's just not used in these lawsuits and it hasn't been updated like that. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé pointed out. But there is another way and a much more efficient way to achieve this, i.e. Through means of taxation and other already taken expenses, they increase if necessary and have them returned to new ones and maintenance roads. How about that, top dog? Minister, let it return, and take the battle there instead of taking the task of fleshing off the people on the roads of the road, starting to pay off the price?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u38	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate for this discussion on transport in the capital area. There are a number of factors here to consider and consider many factors. It should be emphasized that these issues are primarily responsible for the responsibility of the community. Transport has to do with planning, population development, urban development and rural integration. The rural communities, with their cooperation under the side of the Community community in the capital area, are now working on a project called a city line that becomes a carrier in the new capital area. The city line is a new network of public transport in the capital area, and it is intended to become a transport and development attack that connects the rural communities. Thus it becomes a new option in transport and will play a key role in changing travel practices. It will be the basis for the desirable structure areas for the local population and employment. It is a transport structure that is directed to a core around the capital area, which will strengthen all neighborhoods. This will reduce the pressures in the central city as the number of exciting areas that are linked to high - quality civilizations. If successful, the urban line can produce good results, for example. to reduce road traffic and thus to reduce the pressures on the road and road system of the capital area. It can yield with significant contractions in car traffic along with increased electricity consumption, which may contribute to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, thereby strengthening the contribution of these areas to reduce climate cover and thus facilitate international commitments. In that case, travel time within the area should be reduced, and this type of transportation system can be designed to contribute to walking and riding, an important contribution to improving public health. [[The president calls.]] It is my opinion that when it comes to the transportation of the capital area, the State's authority should not be the case, listening carefully to the views of the local community. [[The president calls.]] The organization is in their hands, so it is important that the State is not involved but is in harmony with the viewpoint of the capital area. Therefore, I strongly encourage Congress and the government to support the plans for a city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u39	President has to ask. Senators guard against the two - minute speech period.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u40	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for this discussion of transportation in the capital area and very clearly indentations of the highest level. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. This, of course, is a very big discussion. Perhaps I would like to include in my first talk what is involved in the development of the past few years and perhaps decades. The thought reflected in this discussion is a change of thinking that we may have had a hard time putting our arms around, and that is why I rejoice over this discussion. From 2010, I obtained a report on the sustainable development of transportation in the capital area, which includes: so that the priority for the car and the attention of car traffic has had a negative impact on the economy, on quality of life, and on other such factors. We've had a hard time getting out of that thought. I feel that this discussion brings back a change of thought, possibly into this decade, since this report is written. These are terms that you would have felt strange 20 years ago, such as environmental psychology. We are increasingly concerned with responsibilities for climate and ecosystems as well as the effects of traffic on these factors, but we would like to be able to travel at the same time, easily, between positions, from work, and care for our daily activities, so that is perhaps just the next person to consider this. Both perfunctory and supreme. The two administrative points, combess, safe and environmental transports in the hands of the state, so the interaction with rural society. [[The president calls.]] I'll just go on in the second speech, top row. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u41	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to consider transportation in the capital area. There is a need for discussion and topics that are not discussed so often. I'd like to take it out of both greenhouse gases, greenhouse gas emissions, and human health, how we get into this discussion in the capital area, and in particular, I'd like to use the opportunity to talk about road rides that I think we need to make a much more practical option for those who want to ride daily. We need to make a better route for transportation. We need to change our rules. We need to understand better how to walk and how to ride the road. This is based on security, to encourage more to travel and to create a clearer direction. In other parts of the North, traffic regulations are very accurate. I'd like to mention that in a program that is especially for those who cycle and even run, as measured by speed, bicycle drivers measure their speed in walks and go up to a speed of up to 35 miles [58 km] when the maximum speed is 30 miles [32 km] away. I'm not criticizing it. I'd much rather bring it up by safety, as well as the common policy in the capital area and in this ideal, that traveling would be a good option and not in the danger they're doing today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u42	Mr. President. Here, many fine members of the capital area have expressed themselves accurately about the exports below. But I'm going to use my two speeches to discuss the city and the city in general and the car. You see, there are reasons why things are the way they are. In 2008, the first time in human history is estimated to be as many people live in urban areas and rural areas. It is estimated that by 2050, 70% of the world's population will live in urban areas and already live in 64% of the population of Iceland in the capital area. This vast move from rural areas to urban areas in the 20th century has made it impossible for cities to develop in an unacceptable and unsatisfactory way. They've been built on the basis of American automobiles, i.e. Classes and separations. They have been elated with expensive infrastructures, and it is difficult to build good public transportation in such cities. This isn't working. As our cities continue to grow, they are becoming more sustainable. Climates are our most important project. We know that much of the warmth of the earth is our fault. We need new, environmental sources of energy. This will not prevent us from changing and reevaluating our way of life. We need to build a great deal of weight. We need to build smaller ones, and we too need to eat less. But the cities are the driving force for economic growth everywhere in Western countries, and that is why we need to go back to the European urban model of mixed - stocked, more dense land use, where we have the opportunity to promote public transport and the possibility of traveling in an eco-efficient way, including. walking and riding.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much for starting this special discussion on transport in the capital area, indeed, for discussing the current transport situation in that area, precisely from the growing population and the growing number of tourists coming to the capital area. It is also good to have an opportunity to hear a little about the emphasis and prospects of a new transport minister. In this short talk time, I plan to emphasize my hope, when it comes to building, solving, and a vision of transportation in the larger areas of the country, where the population is growing, and the traffic load of tourists is increasing, that the emphasis on new ministers will be on transport policies, not merely on bridgeing roads and off-the-roads, as presented in the case of the minister. In a new government government contract, there are things I miss. When writing about transportation in the Treaty, I miss the fact that nothing is written about public transportation, their growth, and environmental solutions when it comes to transportation. I agree with what it says, and I hope that it will be followed up, that there will be a possibility of working with the rural areas around the city line and that even a clearer solution will be considered. I hope, indeed, that a new secretary of transportation will also be more accompanied by us in the left movement a green supply on the road to further public transportation and to ensure continued progress by city lines and its sheep chariots and that he will take the initiative to ensure real futures in public transport and especially when it comes to environmental factors. This is not only a matter of the safe and responsible management of public funds but also of our commitment when it comes to environmental matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is a new Paris gathering, and if we keep that commitment, we certainly have reason to promote public transport here in this largeest area of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u44	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you. a advocate of the good discussion that has resulted in the transportation position in the capital area. I could use some. Indeed, at the beginning of the 20th century, Reykjavík left a rural city, and it can be said that at the beginning of the 21st century, he has evolved from being a city to a big city. Like other major cities, the city of Reykjavík and its capital must become ambitious plans for public transportation. As history has taught us and the experience of other countries and other major cities, the only car is not the best solution when it comes to both space and quality of transportation, i.e. everyone's taking a car. That's why I thought it was the most important thing. There and there, not so far, are the priorities we need to have. I did so in a case of the highest order. The minister that when he spoke about public transportation, he said that passengers had only increased 14%, taking into account population growth, but according to figures from the bus.bs, passengers in the bus have increased by 25% since 2010 ◯2015. So I have to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation to see that the increase is only 14%. We see that the number of passengers has gone from 7 million to 10 million in 2014. I'm gonna have to cut it down a little bit, and I hope to the highest level. A minister can give me answers on how he got those 1 1 1 1 out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u45	A respectable president. I just wanted to cut off money in this context, on taxation as the source of the financing of transport workers, possibly by subsidies, by financing in cooperation with private partners, and then by what I think is also very important, how we can use the payment for operating, and not only in the capital, but in many parts of the country, we have come closer to having anything that can be used everywhere, both for financing, but not least for traffic management. We know it's widely used abroad, and I think it's wise. What I wanted to suggest is, of course, that we need to look at the interaction of all the tools and equipment we have available. We're supposed to use them to do this and to use them for easier transport, environmental transport and less expensive transport, and to support planning and environment goals. I think it's very important to take that discussion with all of them. Transports are changing, technology is changing, and it is much easier to control currency on transport. There are many views that would be very pleasant to consider in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the advising, okay? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and thank you for your gift. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. I concluded the last talk by talking about this balance and new thought, a change of thought; this balance that you see in the ideologies of urban development. Then we come to the second act of focus. A saying, i.e. Maintain road and traffic security, which, of course, will always be important and may focus more on the top of the project. Minister and ours, i.e. looking for transportation and security there. V.E.G. A minister has recreated ideas and emphasized these key elements. There have been delays in the construction and maintenance of roads and including has strains that turn to traffic safety from the capital. True, such ideas have been criticized, mainly on the grounds that there is a shortage of equality. On the other hand, we can refer to something very successful, such as the Cradle tunnel. That's what worked out very well. Certainly there is a choice to go another way. Of course, this is very important. I think it's the highest. A minister has reached the matter in a very balanced way to evaluate it. We can see that, for example. with this important development whether this is possible, we are not experiencing delays that have been very undesirable but are factual. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u47	A respectable president. Here we find many very interesting issues, especially when we are about to build a dense structure. Then I'd like to mention that there are, in fact, three ways that play well together and have been interested in rural society, but there are housing policies, transportation, and public health policies. I'll just have to explain. Building policy - here in the capital area - we have stressed building wood, not breaking more land. We need to serve them well and much better than we do with public transportation. We need to increase the frequency of public transport in density areas and improve the cycle for bicycle riding and promote it. Thus we serve the densely populated areas. In organization we demand fewer parking places, and that is why this is important. To help and maintain such housing policies, we need to make transportation. Then the people's health affects them. These three play well together. I've called on it and believe it's important to have a common housing policy for the capital area and transportation; all of our rural communities are, I think, well established by public health policy and, as well as by the last government, that I understand, create public health policy on national level, so it's not necessary. However, I believe it is important, both for housing and transportation, that it will be working together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to use the second session to discuss the private car. Of course, burning fossil fuels is our biggest problem, and now the car is driven by eco-friendly energy sources and is going to solve everything by it. Even if it is a step in the right direction, it is not that simple. What makes the car so unique is not necessarily how it is driven, but how it moves. It enables us to travel very long in a short period of time, and it is simply a temptation to build cities with the gills and unsurpassed ways. During the past century, adaptation to this phenomenon has been characterized. With its appearance, we withdrew from the concept of the dense European settlement based on a variety of land uses. People often lived on high ground, but they worked on the ground floor, and then restaurants and other recreation were within reach, and often they were able to walk there. Cities were quite dense, although they were not high because the public space was taking care of man, not the freak car. However, when a car became public property, the focus changed greatly. We started based on an American model of classification and separation. It is where people often live in a suburb, work in a completely different setting, and then find recreation in the third, or downtown, city. Everything is then linked together with bigger traffic and massive parking areas. The expansion calls the bigger streets and even more parking places. Insides will be expensive and unsuspectable. So we need to go back to building on the European model of cohesion and densely populated. And public transportation is a top priority. Who would not rather spend the money in health care and culture than in malaria, soft water, or snowstorm? So we need to reduce the use of the private car, but we, of course, acknowledge its existence. Let us give it to those who need and want to use it, but let us prepare our future generations for the ability to choose another and environmental travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to start thanking all those who participated in this discussion for the objective, professional, and prospective discussion, and in particular, I welcome the emphasis of the Minister and the interest of him in this matter. Then it is not amiss to rejoice, too, that the State Department has been divided up and that we have a special secretary of transportation and rural government because these are two very related cases. That's been a good discussion. I'd like to touch more on the public transportation. A minister entered the agreement that had been made between the rural communities in the capital area and the state. It has been handled well and has been so general satisfaction in how things have worked out in this regard. There are, however, many numbers that can be produced in this context. At the beginning of that contract, the percentage of people using public transport was 4%, the target was set for 8% and the target of the regional structure is 12%. Our achieving these goals has a tremendous impact on transportation in the capital area. Still, we're just talking about 12%. It is natural that much of the population will still travel by private car. Hopefully, the bicycle ride will become even bigger, and it will also be possible to walk from place to place. In this context, I'd like to mention that as public transportation is important to us, it is not a legal function for a community to be on public transportation. The cost of business is bus-to-bus. Which is the largest public transportation company, I'm talking about the cost of transportation in the capital area, about 7 billion a year. 800 million come from the state, 30% are fares or 1.7 billion; the rest comes from rural areas in the capital area. I think it's important to take it into this conversation. It's not a legal part, but it's extremely important to us. [[The president calls.]] This is economically practical. I also welcome the emphasis that has surfaced here on human health, for transportation is organizational, and it is possible to exert a major influence on human health by means of the right organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u50	A respectable president. There has been much talk about how we can reduce traffic pollution and have been referred to in this connection by energy exchange and public transportation. That is absolutely true, but there is also the lower risk of easy transport contamination. Of course, there is concern that in spite of the great amount of money that the State has made for public transportation here by contract from 2012, we will not be able to see better results. I'll just remind you, if we look at it in the context of a false street interface, that we'll put a similar point in the capital area of this subject, and the offer is silent, which we've now had in the wrong paths with theyr Krysavors. You also wonder in this context if we look at ourselves here in this hall just how many people have come to work at work this morning. I think it's okay if we think about it. I don't know if we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Rósa Björg Brynjólfsdóttir is going to a bus or something else, but it has to be revealed. I was entombed by the numbers I had during the increase. This is based on information from the Roadmaking process and according to figures from that contract made in 2012 and through 2015. The markets for income are talked about and about what to take on roads and the taxation of these taxes. FIB published statistics that collect 70 billion of the traffic in the form of taxes and pay. These numbers also contain a valuable tax from new cars, fuels, and share items. As a result, the amount is considerably higher than the taxes collected from driving. If you see a general tax of gasoline, oil charge, miles tax, automobile tax, and carbon tax, it is estimated to be about 33 billion this year. That's pretty close to what we put in transportation, but we put it right about 30 billion. How important it is, then, that we use accurate information when we discuss this and realize why the problem is, because we do not approach it with slogans in this context. [[The president calls.]] The premiums, if it happens, if we're going nowhere and get an agreement about it, of course, based on the fact that the interests of those who go through very often and have to pay regularly for it, e.g. to work and school, to be more active after the project has recovered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u51	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of travel for granting my request to take this matter on schedule. Here's where we talk about the situation on the road. In many respects the situation is good, but in some respects it is bad. It is good in this area that tourists are streaming, and the number of them is increasing from year to year, but in some areas, it has reached a range of challenges and challenges as others respond well. Although tourism has become a major resource in the nation's currency, the income varies, and it is a matter of wondering whether most of it is normal to travel to the southwestern corner while other areas carry costs and earn little income. The importance of growing income from the arrival of tourists in the country has been repeatedly discussed at the United States. As is the case today, rural society receives income from its outbacks those who work in tourism as well as property taxes from ministries belonging to the tourism network. This amount of money comes from various weight to rural society, and some feel that it is somewhat disintegrated. They think there is a cost pressure, but little or no income in sight to meet the necessary build-up costs and other costs. We advanceers have spoken of direct income given by the state by tourists so that 1/3 goes directly to the state, 1/3 to the rural group, and 1/3 into the building fund. In this way, money can be distributed where income is least and what is needed, so the system continues to expand and distribute tourists organized throughout the country. But if we are really going to spread the pressure, we need to take care of the government's income, where the tools are remembered for our private contacts. The public must prepare for a wide range of infrastructure and spread throughout the country to strengthen the locals in building and provide a basis for income management. It is a fine way to equalize opportunities and to strengthen your family's equality. V.E.G. President. A significant increase in travel revenue has been made, and it can reduce their appeal to the country. I think that, like a Union team, I also feel that it is unnecessary to be concerned, for I do not know better than it is unusual for anyone to pay for access to destinations elsewhere, and various taxes and expenses to stay. That is not what tourists first consider when making a decision on a journey. In contrast, lack of action on necessary structure is more likely to weaken the country's reputation and have harmful effects on Iceland's market as a tourist country. In the time of the last government, progressive efforts were under way to open more portals into the country. It has been done with national and local groups to get straight flights to Akureyri and Egression. It is a long run and requires follow-up. It would be nice to hear if this project is not being carried on with full weight. Much of the tourists come to the country to experience nature, and even it doesn't matter if they don't come to the southwest corner or to the capital. It may also be noted that it does not matter whether a trip around the country begins in Reykjavík, Akureyri, Egeils, or saves, but it can be of great importance to distribute tourists, strengthen the settlements around the country, and increase the number of employment opportunities. The distribution of tourists is prevented by a number of factors. I'd like to mention road transport, poor roads, and expensive flights, but I'd also say that something is missing in the market. V.E.G. President. The Declaration of Independence Class, Expansion, and Future Bears is a short chapter on travel. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The quality of the tourism services reflected in the management and long-term policy activities. In the following years, projects that will contribute to the coordination of tourism, reliable sources of data and research, nature protection, the increase in interest of the article, the distribution of tourists across the country, and a reasonable payment, e.g. EU/1/09/531/001 It's all well and well, but it's generally spoken, as if with such a piece of paper. But I wondered, " What do men think is a reasonable price to pay? ' The employment community has suggested freedom from a more prestigious tourism agency, some count the way to steer tourism by making tourists pay for access and experience, i.e. Those who enjoy, they pay, it is not enough to have a fee and a return to control stress, but it takes more to control it. So I'd like to ask, "Is it a minister's opinion that he employs the wages of tourists, and in what way? " What position does a minister have on coming charges? What will a minister do to ensure the growth of the income of tourists in rural areas? Will a minister take the initiative to spread the country to tourists, and then how?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u52	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, for bringing up the big subject, travel, and development of the industry. The Declaration of the Government highlights the importance of the tourism services reflected in the administration projects and long-term policy development. I have decided that from the next month's conventions, there will be a special travel office in the Ministry and it will be supported by a large amount of people beyond what is available today. This we do mainly by setting priorities within the Ministry and from the next month's conventions, five employees will devote themselves to travel, as well as the addition to one to two levels at a time of the year. With that adjusted priorities, there is a better opportunity for us to carry out our urgent assignments with the objective that the Ministry will be responsible for cooperation with other agencies on the challenges of tourism, which soon became a basic work in Iceland. It's part of a mission. The talk about travel services is a big deal about reimbursement. First of all, we have already paid our fee, the cost of stay will be tripled from the fall when it leaves 100 bucks. of 300 K. In addition, the policy of the government is to arrange for the payment of parking fees in designated tourist areas and to negotiate the transport secretary's bill. Then, as we know, tourists pay taxes from worthwhile services and consumptions, such as food, as well as the work of this article contributes to economic growth and employment. Further ideas for special payment on tourists have not been determined. The plans for natural passes, much in the 2013 election discussion, did not work out, and I will not suggest that way again. Before that election, there were benefits of coming, but it is less important that a bill on the subject went before the Council in 2011, which was then rejected in the council. I agree with a saying that it needs to be noted that rural society is receiving a normal share of road transport income in order to be able to support development in its areas. In this regard, I would like to stress that they are already provided a significant share from a joint fund for building up, both through the tourist funds and through the new strategy for building wood, to which I will be better developed later. A bill will be provided in the near future by a secretary of transportation, where community sources are available to deposit parking bills outside urban areas. Each member of the country should continue to be considered in order to earn money to prepare for development. However, the currency is not the largest subject, but the cohesive management of tourism, the amendment of the article, the distribution of tourists throughout the country, nature protection and other emphasises that have been identified as a means of transport, more detailed policy measures, involved in all major stakeholders. Mr. President. Although in terms of tourism as a sector, most major subjects involved in the management of other schemes are the job and innovations of the Bureau. This situation calls for a joint administrative committee, and therefore it was decided to set up the travel management center in late 2015. In its field of employment, the Ministry is located at the same time as travel, financial, transportation and rural administrations, and environmental and resource resources are assembled at the table with representatives of rural society and tourism in order to coordinate administrative and tourism activities. This is an important field that needs to be used well until 2020. Remuneration, income for rural society, and distribution of tourists are under the influence of an apocalyptic advocate. For example, all these factors require co-ordination and coordination of advisers. Government policy is to promote a better distribution or flow of tourists through the land, as is the above. In a more organized way than before, we need to communicate what each part of the country represents as a destination. This is what we do for work with the so-called policy management programmes, or DMP programmes, which are started, where the national market will include: worked together with the locals. This is important. Air development fund has begun. The aim of the fund is to contribute to the distribution of tourists through the country by strengthening flights, now to Akureyri and Egressance, and to the country in general. The bill on how the fund works is in operation at the Ministry, and hopefully it's coming to the council at this council. This rapidly growing industry is in my mind powerful rural, self-sustained and sustainable activities. The whole country is a beautiful and ideal place, but we need to control the population and growth in the increase. The structure of the infrastructure must be followed. It is the task, only in this way, that we will develop a strong moving campaign to the future, with more profits and profits in this article. V.E.G. President. I would have liked to mention more things, perhaps in my second talk. It is important that we talk as we are doing here about the challenges and opportunities involved in our travel campaigns. This is where we all have to work together, and I welcome the opportunity to have this conversation with the senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. The advisor for starting this important discussion. In fact, travel has been quite a topic in this hall in recent years. The condition has been analysed but also called after analysis of operations. We have an analysis of the land's inadequacy of toilet facilities, but we still do not have a targeted schedule to accurately increase the number of them. V.E.G. The minister here said that the structure of the wood is a priority. I agree. The vast majority of the tourists coming here for nature's sake, and it's very important to be attacked in the development of tourist attractions, which are designed to show respect for nature's limitations and also to place extra money on management in these areas. Then I am witnessing to the Coast Guard, which will have to be a whole year's work in different parts of the country. However, we do not see, for instance, in the current budget of the council, that there is expected to be an increase in the development of international tourist facilities, either when it comes to operating or implementing. We also see that there has been a certain wild-west situation at the time of payment. You're absolutely right. Minister says, this is an important industry, the largest export of the country's population, an enormously impressive development based on initiatives throughout the country, but it is important that the government has a clear view of this. V.E.G. Minister said she didn't want to submit the natural passes bill, and I think it's good because it contradicts the public rights that have been held in Icelandic legislation since the Middle Ages. But we need to find some agreement here on how we want to make this payment. There we need to respect the fundamental reasons for public rights, that people's quest for the land remains free but that reimbursement is in some way rendered service or, as we have suggested, to be looked upon as a coming fee that is a clear and clear way to collect further revenues from those who come here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u54	A respectable president. This is certainly an important discussion, and I want to thank you for what it is. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir for putting the matter on schedule today. The minister announces an increase in the balance of the night's talk, and this has been well called to the end. That, if I calculate correctly, will likely include over a billion publics, probably 1.5 billion, which will be useful for tourism infrastructure. I also want to thank the Minister for the clear vision that her speech today reflects. It highlights new ways of depositing, ways in which rural society can earn the necessary income in order to cope with increasing pressures, and finally it stresses the distribution of tourists all over the country. This is a cause for joy. But this requires manpower, and that's why I'd also like to celebrate the ultimate. A minister has proclaimed here today that it will set up a special and well-designed travel office for the Ministry. It is good news, and it well reflects the emphasis the government places on this rapidly growing basic way of doing things here. This emphasis is promising and happy for everyone in this country. Then I would judge what the minister mentioned, and have been in the discussion, on policy management programmes for different parts of the country. A minister would talk about consultation with the locals, but it would be nice if a minister could come into the office only to see how they can work it out. Then I'd like to ask the secretary further about the deposit and flight transport as a aid in spreading the pressure of tourists. [[The president calls.]] I will find it better in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u55	A respectable president. The ultimate, indeed. The minister of travel would not accept the envy of farms, for this sect was characterized by a lack of policy during the last term when it was also under the Independence Party. It is time to take real action when it comes to building up the most basic needs of tourism. It is as if there were a certain crisis of the NGOs where nothing has been done, where no fees can be taken, where the toilet cannot be built, since the market somehow should take care of it itself. Obviously, it's not working any more. We see nature being damaged, the image of the land being damaged. We see that the access to certain places in the country has become so great that we need to respond simply to protect nature, as this is also a matter of nature protection. When we talk about access control and possibly charge it, we also refer to the currency as a species of nature protection. National parks around the world are well - known to pay for tourists who pass through it simply to maintain the natural resource of national parks. I'm celebrating this discussion, and it's time for something to be done in these matters. We can't afford to lose the tourist industry, we can't afford Iceland to be part of the world's tourist current. So it is very important that we take this discussion and find solutions. [[The president calls.]] It's very important to do so. A minister resorts to basic structure in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u56	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the members of the council for their repeated wishes that I join the conference. I was moved and grateful that there was a very special discussion about yesterday that I had been absent from a special discussion during the day. It's nice to know you're missed so hard. I try to stay here as long as I can. But for the tours, I appreciate the discussion and the highest. Minister for insight. Special attention is given to the approach used by the advisor. The approach, for example, is about reimbursement and exchange of revenues by tourists, not about the structure of this article. Granted, it is important to spread pressures on tourists in many parts of the country, but we need to do so much more than that. We need to grow in our respect for our God - given life - style. We cannot at the same time sell the land as a pure natural paradise, with greater access to natural spheres without any counterweight action. It is also important to ensure a wide range of well - educated workers in order to maintain a high level of service in tourism. To maximise quality and income in tourism, a long-term policy must be developed as high as possible. Minister has spoken for us. This also enhances our quality of life in Iceland, since tourism is affecting various infrastructures in the country. Official government and rural society need to establish priorities so that they do not create unnecessary thawing, inflation, or a payload. Then there are even larger tasks, such as the idea that the electricity of the rental fleet has to build up on country - wide loading stations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u57	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Some tens of years ago, the General Assembly decided to give hospitality to those who buy them in this country a discount of credit, the same discount from the general levels of the tax as the public receives from food, energy, and books. This decision was made in a practical way, as did any decision on tax returns. The decision was made to try to increase the number of tourists in this country and to have a more favorable rate or like the countries we wanted to compete with for tourists. When faced with this decision, tourism was not much of a business and was not weighed down in the early job history. Many years later, tourism has become one of the largest sectors in the country, producing good currency. The work programme is greatly weighed down in all the country's work and has a tremendous impact on the economy and puts pressure on the infrastructure to meet. To strengthen the health, medical, and law - enforcement system, the budget must be replaced by road reforms, improved tourist facilities. Now it is necessary to use the administrative instruments within the reach of the government to cope with the pressures of many tourists. There is also the goal of transporting a value tax of lodging and services for tourists in general stages, such as the rest of the country's sectors, which serve or sell products that are consumed here. That change would result in a rate of 10 in the billions of dollars. In the state funds of a year. The amount of money that is needed in order to make any investments that the article itself has established will pay for the future. However, such a change would not be made tomorrow; it would take a long change, so it would come to effect in the autumn of 2018 if the decision was made today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u58	V.E.G. President. We senators have just returned from a district week, and as a member of the Southern District, I attended several meetings in that area. The journey was high in mind, and in view of the circumstances that have developed in the South, it is no wonder, there is a lot of traffic around this area, but at the same time other areas may not be more empty than empty. In the summer, the person standing here enjoys taking the tent to the trunk and chasing the weather, and there's an enormous difference between countries in Iceland, and we need to react with a better distribution of tourists. One way is to increase the number of portals into the country, such as water. Egilsdóttir Þórunn, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um... um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, There is another way to improve linking to the Chefavicon airport to other areas, i.e. that those who come to the country may have the option to proceed directly, e.g. North or East or so similar. It also saves stress on the roads that are under extreme stress. The time we have in this discussion is very short, so you can't say much, but I'd like to say, although it's only 1,212 that the stream of tourists is growing substantially in Iceland. This is a very short period of time, the pressure on the wood is high, so there is bound to be more payment, but it needs to be reasonable, and it needs to be reasonable. A few questions to a minister before I make my point: What view does a minister of the ideas of advancement have that rural society, state, and tourism funds will receive one third of the money, to increase domestic flights through the Cheflavour Airport, the balance fee? The gratifying price has been increased, but does that not seem incongruous, as the ratio between animals and inexpensive lodgings varies considerably? [[The president calls.]] Doesn't Ministers consider it a reason to reimburse a comeback bill, since it was last submitted in 2011 and so much has changed? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u59	The president would like to remind the speakers to give a talk lesson. He himself is not particularly diligent, but it has two bars to the 30 - second mark, so this is a kind reminder of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u60	President. That's a big discussion. In my next talk, I saw a fine suggestion, which was in effect suggested to slaughter this dairy cow, which is a tourist service. This is so that tourism competes with other countries, and when looking at the landscape in Europe, there is room service, room service, usually in a position of worth taxation level other than the main level. That is the principle. It seems to be forgotten in this country regarding the tourism service that it probably returns to the value tax revenues of about 30 billion a year despite a building phase. Second, one company, Icellands, of its operations, goes to 24 billion on tax returns to state funds. Likely there is a similar number in the other part of the tourism service, so the tourism service returns approximately Seventy-four hundred and eighty billion dollars. Making this industry that some money you have may lead to, as I said before, that the article will be slaughtered. The question was asked: What means does a minister take in order to distribute tourists to the country? Ministers don't distribute tourists around the country. Travelers decide their own destination. Simply put, the distribution of tourists depends on a little distance from airport. The distance from the airport is the Fax Bay area, and we live in it. It's totally obvious to assume that there will be a lot of live flights from abroad to other destinations. In order to have another such large port, a 6.8 million passengers today have 6.8 million passengers, so the structure of a flight crew is not altered. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I apologize for crossing the line.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u61	Mr. President. Travel services have caused changes in our society and have been changing in many ways, cultural, economic, and environmental. However, we need to consider both the positive and the negative effects of tourism on the inhabitants, since everything must be in harmony with our local community and our local inhabitants. The distribution of tourists has been mentioned here. It has an obvious advantage to distribute tourists or to make sure that they are effective, especially in distributing the pressures on our natural spheres. Indeed, safe and sound transportation is vital for this to happen. This was expected in a transport program, but unfortunately it was not in the financial or financial policies, as is the case with financial projections. It is important to define the tourist routes in each part of the country, i.e. Why do tourists want to come there? That's it. primary entry into the market. I think this is very important, and I'm glad that the Minister has decided to emphasize these matters in his Ministry, even though this is contrary to the Ministry. We also need to keep both maintenance and building at the airports in order if we are to hurt something by saying we want to distribute tourists, and we're going to market another side of the southwest corner. I think that should be the main objective of the Ministry now and of those under the department hearing to focus on it. We also need to arrange for the transport service to be able to work with, for example. Good Internet connection. With regard to the host's fees and other taxes, the rural society has to earn money from it. Many of them are small, travellers do not leave behind, but there is much to spare. Of course, we also need to make sure that there is an increase in legal care and the pressures of health care, as well as other funds to cope with stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u62	A respectable president. I singled out the minister's speech that she proclaimed today action to collect the parking lot, in line with what is stated in a government contract. This is indeed a cause for joy, and it will guarantee the public income for building up at places of travel that the State has at its head. But it is also a pleasure to do so. Ministers wonder how the rural communities can take advantage of this strategy. This will contribute to a better attention to the standards of the environment and to the security of tourists. In addition, it is a joy to see that the emphasis of the Ministers puts forth to share the benefits of increasing number of tourists. This is everything, with tremendous pressures in the rural areas that bear the heat and weight of this increase. The pressures in my district, the Southern District, are especially intense. Finally and in view of the fact that the minister is making his speech so clear that the importance of distributing the pressures of increasing number of tourists across the country is what I would like to end with another question that leads to flying transport. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would have specifically considered the possibility of building a smaller airport in the country, e.g. A horn - wide airport so that they can care for international flights and serve the purpose of spreading more stress on more tourists. Does a minister believe that such a change to the airports and improvements in the use of equipment could be a factor in this effort?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u63	A respectable president. To finish my case, I would like to say that healthy tourism development can well become the spine for a new rural application. I miss that emphasis in the questions of the speaker, but I can assure her that the Council members of the Björður will contribute to the developing vision and policy to the future, which will increase the quality of the tourism process for a long time. I'd also like to mention that with policy development, I'm the highest. A minister with respect to currency and distribution to consider sustainable development in the development of the tourism industry itself, to reduce the pressures on society, and to us as countries on the impact of infrastructure in the country. We have spoken extensively about our country, but here in the capital area, we lack housing that has resulted in the well - being system and other consequences that we are interested in making our own travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u64	Mr. President. In my first speech, I said that in the situation as it is and in the management environment of the tourism service and in the state's position, it was directed to bring a worthy tax from a general step of hosting and recreation. The need for action is taken, and considering the condition of the wood under pressure and viewed by the cost of the crown, which leads to the removal of other exports from them, tax grants to the article are not reasonable. Much more of the people making use of room service and recreation for tourists in this country are tourists, Icelanders in great numbers. The other ways that have been dealt with are that most of us from Iceland and from foreign tourists do not give as well as the funds of the state. Premium charges, e.g. to all who come to the country, whether foreign tourists or Icelanders, to come home from vacations or from working abroad. Remuneration would have to be high, a few thousand dollars on the journey, to get the money that would change the value tax. I feel, however, that if the General wants to give the travel service a tax discount in this situation, which I believe would be classified under economic error when the story will be considered later, the second best option will be due, although they need to be high and also pay for the Icelanders. Residences that went into infrastructure, along with a host's fee that could work together in the countryside. At any rate, it is crystal clear that you must grasp the controls and control the situation from a dilemma. It will go badly if nothing has to be done, and no one will pay for it unless the public is well paid for and cut to the welfare services. [[The president calls.]] That is why we must take hold of ourselves, and even if it had been before. I'm sorry, sir, there's nothing to see in the Supreme Court Declaration. Governments to take care of the situation. [[The president calls.]] The only thing mentioned there is the parking lot. [[The president calls.]] Parking costs will not meet the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u65	V.E.G. President. I want to thank all those who participated in this important discussion. We all have opinions on this matter, and we all feel it, I feel it here, what it's all about us. Of course, this is where we are taking the matter from a specific point of view. There is much greater than this, and much more discussion about this group of subjects. I agree completely with what has been said in the Senate speeches. I'm glad a minister talks about putting special emphasis on the travel arrangements by starting the travel office. It is good to set priorities for them. She also spoke of coordination and cross-cutting work between advisers. So I couldn't quite tell if a health minister also enters the travel station, the work that I think is very important, because by increasing the flow of tourists, the health - control system has increased greatly. A minister speaks of an increase in the host's fee. Then I'd like to wonder if it's not right to be distributed. Is it true that the host's fee runs only to the area where most of it comes in? Is it not a device to guide it out, to build up the land? We have to. There is nothing else that we can do if we are going to strengthen our country's settlements and get these jobs to the place we want. Tourism is a good tool and is a source of support for basic work, and it works well with them in every community around the country. What we need now is clear and specific policy. We need to find a way. We're talking about a tourist country in Iceland, but it's got to be a country we want to live in too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u66	Mr. President. I could probably stand here all day and discuss these matters with the council members. I'll try to make good use of the time and review the main points. I'll take the focus of a second. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in the custody. Of course, it is a project that is under the Environment Ministry, but it comes back and forth to my table as a means of covering a number of natural projects. Meetings with the local people turn to working with the market firms. I had a very good conversation with them yesterday about this assignment and the importance of consultation with the locals. This article discusses the fact that nothing is done and that a state of new - free thinking is the only thing to do. Of course, it's due today. It is not a major form of new-free thinking in the tourism fund. It is distributed to individuals, communities, and the State, though it is a rule that I am revising. We also have a centrally controlled national program. In it is the priority of the infrastructure. It is also under the Environment Ministry and must be financed. There is a clear picture and a complete view. It is not true, therefore, that nothing has been done, but I do not minimize the work that has to be done. In turn, the control center is putting a lid on priorities. That's where the big toilet paint comes in. It was not the will to have an interim operation a little before my time. But I think it's just a matter of doing it, because even if we have to do it properly, we can't be doing toilets for a very long time. The tourist market's fund will soon begin to make a total of 600 million. K. that, of course, there is much building to be said. I am determined to be careful with this group of subjects, and I am not going to make any fundamental changes in the subject. [[The president calls.]] Despite criticism that it took time, I believe that at least I try to work fast, and it is also important that this discussion take place here at the council. [[The president calls.]] Like I say, it's just that somebody else has to ask for another special discussion so I can keep talking, I'm not going to go too far ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u67	V.E.G. President. It's now 12:40. It's like the highest. The president has announced this morning a meeting of committees has been called. The welfare committee between hours. 13 and 14 expecting a meeting break. If we give it to ourselves at what? A senator and the chairman of the next talk will be in full speech at 13 o'clock, and then there would be an indistinguishable situation that it would have to cut a reply from, which I think is pretty clear to be expected in this discussion, and to postpone it about an hour. So I propose to the highest. President, he will interrupt a meeting right now, and then we can start the discussion at the end of the week. 14 At the end of the meeting, the committee joined in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u68	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. A senator in this regard. It's not just because it's a big, controversial matter and all that, but it's the time that an executive has. I have no faith in it, as much emphasis as the Independence Party puts on this matter, it takes four, five minutes to make a recommendation. Then, of course, there's going to be a lot of objection, I suppose, so it's quite clear that time is now. 13 isn't enough. It is not a good idea to start a matter, whether it is this or something, to have to tear it apart in the midst of a decision or even in the middle of the senator's talk. I hope the case will be postponed until the welfare committee has completed a meeting. 14 and then we can begin this discussion with full force, as the independents want so much emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u69	As an explanation, so universally understood, members of the Parliament have been prepared to discuss the meeting with the president on the subject that there is a meeting on committee and so, no meeting is to be held. They're going to be talking about the President's conference board, I'm assuming that, beyond the time, this meeting will be interrupted. This means that a speaker can't start the discussion, so instead of arguing about this, we'll just stop at this meeting, and then after a break will be taken up. 14th [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u70	Madam President. Earlier today, a General and Education Committee was available for the first matters to be settled by the Committee followed by a new government, a court hearing for enforcing judges of the land's rights. It did not settle the setting of the sentence ▪Skal Minister, where it was especially in view of the equality laws of law. In our memory, we feel that there is a need for this, especially in view of the need for a justice minister to intervene in some specific procedure under the order of the judges. For this reason, in the memory of the section, the person standing here with the representatives of Porta and the FBI audience, we regressed that the situation in the last terms of the case should be interrupted because the greater part cannot accept terms in behalf of sex equality in law texts, the words: [[The president calls.]] How dangerous would that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u71	A respectable president. In 1st. of the bill for a legal adjustment of the courts and of the Commission on the qualifications of the judges was the highest. Minister of Justice asked of what? paritaprevir Jón Steindór's son Valdimarsson whether it was not a reason to set specific rules for the order of judges who include, in addition to universal qualifications, that there should be a special view of sexual equality. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice answered the question. Senator, with permission from the President: ▪ I'm not a spokesman for a person's binding it into law to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. I'm so disappointed that the General and Education Committee prefers to do the highest. A minister of justice is able to avoid considering these important views in an important language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u72	President. I'd like to remind you once again, as we've done before, that tomorrow's meeting isn't in place and not next week. We have noted several times in the past that a program, at least for the next week, would be available if we were not two, so that we could better prepare for the coming issues. At least I have an idea or a suggestion to the president, if there is a small issue on the program, there's a bill here for a song on the board that can be arranged, for example. Tomorrow. It's a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u73	Madam President. Because of words such as this were the case from the back of the day. In fact, members of the Parliament on equality and the order of a judge in the National Court feel that men are careful to choose the committees carefully and look to gender. I also believe that it is desirable to place a much clearer framework and perspective on what it is based on. In Comb 4. there are six teams and none of them are on equal terms. However, I also believe that it is desirable for a minister to be made to look at equality, and I am not at risk of that. I support the hearing of the senators who have spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u74	A respectable president. I want to say something like that. My fellow council members, the Thorfjörður Sunna Ævarsdóttir and Andrés Inga Jónsdóttir. [[Up front.]] Excuse me. That's how you don't have your tongue. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes for my mistakes. The few words that we would have liked to add into this text could have been the highest. Minister of Justice both at the same time, encouragement, and support of decision making later when it comes to appointing 15 judges in the National Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u75	Madam President. I am deeply disappointed, as members of the Parliament and members of the General and Education Committee are hereby putting aside a case from the Committee taking into account the guidance of gender principles regarding a new interjugation. This disappointment is also grappled with disappointments that occurred during discussions when the minister of justice gave his bill of a new cross - line cross - references, land court. This was shown in the minister's answers to the discussion of a selection committee and the order of a new court case, which was correct, with the permission of a president: ▪ I do not generally consider well - being to think of a command in such an important office as judges are in the way that an obligatory man would be called after the following - was appropriate. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson - ◯... that there is a specific gender concept. What a disappointment it is when, at last, we have the opportunity to start from the establishment of a new court stage rather than to reverse a trend that has taken place here for decades, if not for a hundred years! [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here we have the opportunity to really look at gender.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u76	A respectable president. As a result of the discussions on the work of the General and Education Committee, I would like to make clear that the selection committee is for the first time assigned to a majority of women. There are three women who will have the choice of the fittest members of the National Court and Minister, from whether or not we have agreed on this addition to the law, to comply with the law's law on the equal status of women and men when he chooses after the committee has mentioned the individual qualifications. We're talking about fixing the law. National rights have been established, this was a revised legal proposal, and in the opinion of the Committee, it is clear to the minister that the sex ratio will be matched among the appointed judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u77	Madam President. If there is something more tragic than that we are still in a community where there is a possibility that a justice minister may be doing a job that may not be very interested in thinking that gender is the basis for a judge's order, then it is not that there should be a perfectly simple word in the adjustment that ensures that there will be work there to ensure that rights and equality that are natural. Now is the judgment seat to be made, and the judgment seat must be set in it. For years, there have been quite many men in all the courts. Perhaps, as an idea, it would be nice to try to have a court once reserved for women.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u78	Madam President. There's still an increase in frustration. It is disappointing to see that the secretary of the Independence Party and the head of the General and Education Committee sees it as sufficient to have a general incentive to follow the law rather than a law that the rights of equality should be followed fully. We all know here that the equality laws themselves are not even strong enough, so if there was anything to strengthen a new court order, a new Minister would have these laws in there and put them in action, and the class that is in charge of the government, show that the gender principles will be taken seriously. It may be time for a prime minister who was designated one of the ten national leaders to show in his work that gender values are held in high esteem under his control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u79	The president would like to direct the council that we are now discussing the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u80	President. You need to be clear about these facts. In 2012 an article published by scientists that reviewed the biased staff at university and found that both male and male employees followed male candidates, whether male or female, both regarding status and pay. So it is not simply that women will be hired by men and women. It's more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u81	A respectable president. I want to say something, for I have proved true history to be a real disappointment when I listened to an explanation. Chairman of the General and Education Committee. Secular law has been here for at least since 2008. This has not changed, however, that when it comes to hosts in positions and positions of authority, there is still another gender. The government now has a legal basis for equality in its government covenant. During times of celebration, she waves the states of the government, saying that she is determined to fight for equality. When it comes to showing it in action, not merely by some symbolic phrases that may make no difference in the event of a relapse, and they legalize a clear order to minister, it starts with the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u82	Madam President. The denominators were in their views, apparently, quite agreed, but did not find it normal to go to a possible opinion in case this change should pass through. What I'm sorry for is that there is so much to be said about this matter that it can't be reached with such an important matter that has been treated as much as it has got so far, that we haven't been able to give us the time we needed to reach an agreement where there would be a guarantee of gender principles and certainly kept in mind at the order of this new court, where we have a real opportunity to settle the genders in the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u83	The President would like to make an issue here for President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u84	Madam President. ▪ Ministers in particular have in mind equality laws. This is an innocent sentence in the law, especially when we are giving 15 judges a new court order that will sit there for the next few decades. A minister in particular, in regard to equality laws, should be included in the law rather than in a committee party because I don't have enough faith, I don't have overconfidence on the legal value of committees. In particular, Ministers in regard to equality laws, it is a recognising that equality laws cover this, a routine that is necessary, including In view of the fact that the Supreme Court must be called upon to comply with equality laws, although these clearly apply to him and because they are present at the invitation of the Independence Party minister of judicial cases, which do not consider it beneficial to look specifically at gender issues. A minister in particular in regard to equality is a spontaneous sentence that we should not need in the law but that needs to be set there. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u85	A respectable president. I don't want to extend this discussion about the President's conference board because it's starting to revolve around everything else. But I will make sure of the minister, and she has said that she will do according to the law of the women and of men according to all manner of judgment. I kind of agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that it would be very fun if the judges of the National Court were only women, and it could well happen in the immediate future, especially in view of the women's legal position. We see that women are about half of the judges in the district now, and the development will be better, and they will be better, and ministers will look to an equalize with the selection of judges as required.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u86	Madam President. I'm both kind and obliged to point Áslaug tail. Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir there are four law firms working in college in Iceland, not just one. The fact is that the nation's population has a very high proportion, i.e. A female, in various ways, not only in terms of pay but in terms of position, especially as the upper law of society increases. We also have the position in the Supreme Court. The gender balance is shocking, one female judge is there at work and is, if I remember correctly, from the illness of the moment. We can do better, and we'll do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u87	A respectable president. It's good to hear in all the darkness here that it seems that we all agree on the goal, i.e. to increase the number of women in positions of responsibility. It's worse if you are. The head of the General and Education Committee should believe that it will only happen on its own, which is probably not in the spirit of the equality that we need to set specific laws on this. But in view of the fact that all of us here seem to agree on our objective, I'd like to make it my suggestion, since it's hard that this sentence is only in this one bill, that we resolve that in every legal bill we agree to at the Council, there will be an issue of equality, in this bill as well as others, that we overturn the sentence of every law code that we agree on. General.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u88	Madam President. I recommend here for the bill on changes in various laws dealing with alcohol trade, with the aim of the State to withdraw the small selling of alcohol, that the small sale be granted free of preconceived conditions, and that public health work be increased by promoting prevention, education, and therapeutic management. Nine of the movers come from rows of four different tribes. The main point of the bill is that the state's end of a little alcohol trade and the part of the State's Alcohol and tobacco trades, which turns to a liquor store to be laid down. The government's tobacco trade still works in the same form, and at the same time, it will be a monopoly with a little alcohol out and given free with certain conditions, as I said earlier. The requirement is that a small dealer must be allowed by the local management to sell alcohol, that time be limited, and alcohol should be kept separate within each store, and that other conditions, such as safety guard and the like, must be met. In the bill it is then assumed that the rules on alcohol advertising will be developed in a more reasonable and modern way, allowing alcohol to be advertised in the local media with the limit to heed the warning about the dangers of alcohol abuse and the encouragement to responsible consumption as well as never to direct alcohol advertisements to children and young people. The bill gives a special focus on the growth of public health funds and suggests the change that instead of 1% of alcohol charge will be raised to 5%. In this way large amounts of donations are being made for prevention, education, and treatment planning to counteract much more than is currently being done against harmful, excessive drinking. Madam President. I will deal with this bill in particular in public health later in my speech, as there is a possibility that most people turn to public health. However, before proceeding any further, it is only right to discuss things that do not change with this bill. The age of alcohol will remain at 20 years of age. The law therefore remains to hold total drinking back for those under 20 years of age. The bill expects repairs if a retailer allows alcohol to be given to those who do not have the age. Then they are cursed. To date, it is not evident that the InTVR is subject to any special repairs for the violation of this rule. On the one hand, Madam President, the alcohol and its appendage remain unchanged. Thus, the bill will have little or no impact on the government's income from a liquor store, end up at high costs, and be able to study up to 80 to 90% of the price of some species at the State Alcohol and tobacco stores. However, it is widely accepted that the price of alcohol has a significant impact on consumer behaviours than the findings that measure the vague effects of the access blocks with a number of drug use sites. Third, the period of alcohol payment continues to be restricted by law. In the 3rd. Regulation No. 177/1999, on a little liquor sale, says that the pay period of a little alcohol can be no longer than from eight in the morning to 23 in the evening, although at any given time, ATSVR prefers to have a shorter cut-off period. However, the bill assumes the same length of time during recovery but changes that time will be made at nine in the morning until midnight. A respectable president. The reason for making this bill now and the evidence for agreeing there are many reasons, as can be seen in a summary of the bill. I'm gonna tore up a few things here. In 1922 the State monopoly has, in principle, remained unchanged for nearly 95 years, or since strong alcohol was again made legal consumers. The only major and significant change that has been introduced into law all these years is the legal guidance of beer on March 1, 1989. In recent decades, it is hardly necessary to reenact the rapidly and rapidly changing social life that has taken place in the United States. When a combined alcohol - tobacco trade was set up in 1961, only one government - controlled radio station was in this country. In most areas of industry, the state had hailed and suffered great losses in all trades and services, as well as as insurmounting currency to the public. In general, people did not go abroad, and there were few people here. In other words, Icelandic society was limited, simple, and isolated at that time. Happily, there is another age in so many areas today. Freedom of business has increased dramatically and has played a major role in Iceland's having a place with the richest nations in the world. Society is varied, open, free - minded. Icelanders are going around the world looking for education, employment, recreation, and here come visitors from all over the world, either to settle for a long time or to visit land and country. True, our culture and attitudes have been transformed into so many things, including the rest of our life. through international cooperation and cooperation, through the continuous information flow of the Internet, as well as through national and international media. Today, few people in Leifs station are taking cans from ORA green beans on their way to their vacation. It is even socially recognized to eat foreign cheeses and meats in this country. Of course, the same is true of wine. Wine is no longer condemned as just wine and evil, but an unbreakable part of a fruitful food culture, even culture and learning in itself. Inside the world, the production of alcohol is the exception of establishing and becoming industrialized, closely related to land introductions and services to the growing number of tourists. In recent years the availability of alcohol has increased dramatically. That's a fact. There has been an increase in the number of Kingdom liquor camps. There are now 50 of them. Their opening time has been cleared. The choice has increased. Even a liquor - store Internet store has been set up. At the same time, over the past 20 years, over a hundred percent of wine farmers throughout the country have grown, they are now up to the turn of a thousand, since entertainment clubs and restaurants are to form in the capital just more than five or six such things as those in the past. Yet, there is an out - of - date subsidiary system of government that has this legal consumer that impairs the freedom of the citizens and, of course, inhibits competition. That's obvious. It is an arrangement that no one would think of applying such legal products as drugs, ammunition, or tobacco. It is an arrangement that has nothing to do with human health. Excessive consumption of alcohol is harmful, there is no debate, there can be no debate with me about it. It is harmful to the person who has such a drug addiction. It's evil for his family and family. At the same time, there are costs of society because of excessive or even illegal consumption of alcohol. This may be due to road loss or death, health costs, lost work hours, or increased need for social assistance. There's no dispute. The issue is whether the bill presented here will lead to an increased bioavailability of alcohol, whether an increase in alcohol availability results in an automatic increase in alcohol consumption, and whether an increase in alcohol consumption will result in an automatic increase in alcohol consumption. We do not argue here about the unique qualities of alcohol. It is also not a question of whether alcohol should be forbidden or legal. In fact, it would be understandable and frank with the opponents of the bill wherever they are; in fact, I suppose they even have people in this room, simply suggesting that they don't drink alcohol. This would be clean, especially if you took into account the evidence now presented against the free sales and retailing of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u89	It's so demeaning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u90	[[The point is, it's very serious.]] [[Up front.]] We transporters believe that the best and most effective way to prevent excessive alcohol consumption is to prevent it. That's the best way. Preservation rather than custody. Prevention, education, and real treatment strategy for those in need of help. It's the means that work. As a result of prevention and training, for example, youths are effective in informing them of the wisdom of not drinking alcohol during a delicate development period. In the past 20 years, unique success has been achieved by the prevention and education of the local schools in cooperation with parents and leisure movements in order to reduce the drinking of young people. At the same time, alcohol and alcohol consumption have increased in the community. There are facts that are important to put in the right context. Thus, treatment, counseling, and assistance for those who have become addicted to alcohol can clearly do far more for the well - being of individuals and public health than for forbidding the alcoholic to shop on Sundays. That is why this bill suggests large contributions to public health funds to continue the course of prevention and intensive treatment. This helps us to face the problem and suggests that instead of putting our heads in the sand, we will use the tools that work best, hoping that the problem will go away. I'm going to allow myself to predict that the bill, if legal, will be held in this discussion as an additional access to alcohol. To that end, it is likely that he is absolutely correct. Probably. Yet, that cannot be determined with any certainty. It should further be said that the availability of alcohol is likely to be in harmony with people's wishes regarding where and how to buy alcohol. It should also be noted that alcohol can be accessed in various ways and is not limited to the number of state alcohol and tobacco stores. Price, as I mentioned earlier, is a form of bioavailability. In fact, bioavailability is twice as likely as the number of sale sites. There is also an association between the increase in public costs and economic growth and the increase in alcohol consumption. There is another point to consider and face access to the underworld. Limited bioavailability of standard alcohol triggers the increase in so-called contrast bioavailability, e.g. brewing, smuggling, and even demand for other illegal drugs. This parameter is lacking in the case's nature of all tests or a summary of the effect on alcohol consumption, since where should the smuggler submit the data for such studies? The age limit is such a form of bioavailability, or rather a barrier, but this bill will continue to assume that there will be no access for young people less than 20 years of age. Subsidual and store-separation are also factors that affect bioavailability. The bill continues to allow limits to be made to pay time and that alcohol will always be separated within every store. In the case of a special store, the store itself is set apart enough. It remains that even though sales with alcohol may not become as numerous as those places that already have alcohol's rights, the bill may become the law. Then consider: How to measure the increase in bioavailability as a result of an increase in sales position. I ask: Is the availability of about 4% in the last two years with an opening of two new wine camps, which increased from 48 to 50, one on Kopasker, one in Grafarvogur? Was there such a measurable increase in access to nationals? Is that the average distance from everyone in the nearest liquor store that matters here? Is it a statistical median that determines the bioavailability? A resident in Enartorg makes 40 feet [100 m] to the next liquor store. A member of the House has to drive 50 miles [50 km] to the next liquor store. Does this mean, then, that it is a suitable distance to a local liquor store, on average, 25 miles [25 km] and 50 meters [50 m]? Does the drinking of the people of Emunistorg mean that an resident in Thyatira has to go only 100 yards alone to buy alcohol if the bill becomes legal? [[Take it up in:]] [[Up front.]] These are matters of opinion, Madam President. But why would a person who shops at the mall and then strolls 30 yards below the same roof of that mall and buy wine there should buy more wine just to get into a separate space in the store he bought the food? Let's think about it. A respectable president. On the basis of an external summary in 2011, there will be claims that alcohol consumption will be increased by at least 40%.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u91	The talks are now being given for the others too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u92	- Thank you, I'm trying to speed things up, you know. Let it be that this claim is not in any way related to Icelandic conditions, socialisation, legislation, or the proposed changes according to the current bill. Let's leave it between parts. Also, let us be in between parts of such a presentation with statistics, so that if one bottle of red wine a month drinks, there is hardly one and a half of it a month, let it also be applied. Rather, let us discuss how reliable such a statistical summary really is. In the case of these individual summarys, the conclusion is that there is a biased interpretation of the results for up to a 40% increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u93	World Health Organization too?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u94	which are built on a weak foundation and are full of all sorts of warnings about what could possibly be given specific criteria and defined colonns. [[Also with the surgeon?]] It is, in most cases, scientific proven theories, based on the empirical method of research over long periods of time, that many variables in human society are excluded in a scientific way. In fact, the only thing that you can get out of all of this is research, collections, reports on these issues that conflict in many ways in this matter. When considering the reliability of such claims, you might ask, " How much alcohol drinks do 2 million tourists drink in Iceland, and how are these figures reduced from data on total alcohol consumption in Iceland? ' Is it sufficient to provide adequate scientific techniques for taking 50 tourists out and asking how much they drank in the country? A respectable president. Successful statistics are useful, and research is an important tool for solving complex tasks. However, it is often dangerous to include all human behavior under a simple statistical summary and to draw far - reaching conclusions based on simple fusion and sharing. Consider, for example, the following statement to ease the mood: On average, Homo sapiens has one testicle. On average, mankind has one testicle. Of course, if both sexes are involved and rely on simple sharing, it obviously has no significance and is completely meaningless. At the end of this matter, statistical cups and baskets on the value of such information will not be the outcome but what a body of Congress thinks should be done in the light of the changes that have been made by Icelandic society over the decades since the establishment of the State's alcohol and tobacco trade. Then we'll find out which way. In fact, members of Congress have conviction whether it is possible or possible to control adult behavior by means of various rules and regulations. All changes are accompanied by uncertainty. More often than not, those who represent changes in the way of modified social development are not shown in the form of hearsay that things will go on the worst if the change goes through. So it was that when freedom on radio broadcasts was brought to law, and when the beer sale was lifted less than 30 years ago, there was no condemnation and warnings from all the experts and members of Congress that this country's youth would be lost and that everything would go on the worst. In fact, however, everything else became. In the wake of that law, the belief that there was a reasonable, natural change in the rhythm of the atmosphere and that there is no lasting evidence for fate any longer trying to control people's consumption into strong alcohol. A respectable president. In all its fundamentalities, the exact same question exists in this matter. I expect that there will be some objective and upbuilding discussions about the matter here at the conference hall and in the administration of the General and Education Committee. Hv. While members of Parliament may have differing opinions on the importance or merit of this matter, let each senator's vote for himself after three discussions here at the council and the treatment of the Council Committee determine exactly what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u95	Madam President. Hv. A member of the council was a subject of research. I want to quote a recent Swedish study. It examined the effect of allowing alcohol to be sold in grocery stores. The number of attacks, attacks, deaths, and sick days would increase. In Iceland, if the numbers were applied, the rate of drinking driving would increase by 230 a year, the attack by 700 a year, and the mortality rate for more alcohol consumption by 70 a year. The number of sick days would increase by 390,000. The surgeon general has published a summary of the research reports on alcohol, and I would like to ask you why. A senator whether he has studied extensive research, and the results are consistent. Has a what? A senator studied these tests and did so thoroughly before writing his explanations on the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I am kind and obliged to say: You see, I have. These are exactly the research I referred to in my introduction. Not all of them are alone. Not all of them are empirical and do not cover a long period of time. I don't know exactly what test. A senator shows, but I have even. read a Swedish study of only seven months of age. Is that sufficient time to explore the effect on human and modern interaction, with as many variables of bioavailability, of alcohol abuse that can be taken into account? That's exactly what I'm warning you about, that we're stuck in the discussion, putting everything away from studies that don't apply to Icelandic conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u97	Madam President. In every study I've read, and there's quite a lot of them, it says that increased bioavailability increases consumption. I think that's a cognizable conclusion. Now it's got the highest. Government and supreme. A financial minister set out a government policy that speaks of the need to be careful about commitmental decisions regarding the state's budget, but it is quite clear that increasing the availability of food is increasing. I think we're gonna do what. A senator must agree on this as well as on the cost of increased alcohol consumption. It affects society, health, law enforcement, the justice system, the insurance system, and the commercial world. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether he has assumed how to meet the costs of the bill, increase access to alcohol, including increased consumption, which has irrefutable impact on the health and cost of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u98	Madam President. Whatever it is. A senator is just what I did to make a subject of my history of how a person will discern exactly how the bill will affect bioavailability, how it will show up in the increase of alcohol consumption and how we recommend it to form. Is it, then, an increase in strong alcohol or light alcohol? Does it matter? Exactly what, then, will result in an increase in excessive drinking? In this bill, spears are directed to the problem of excessive drinking. We will provide considerable support to the public health fund. This needs to be discussed in the council and on a committee, how this bill exactly will come about changing the objects that turn, including bioavailability. It cannot be excluded, but there is nothing to say that it will have some wonderful effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u99	A respectable president. I don't want to follow a strap against the testicle count here. It's good to go. This is how Senator Tott Björn Einarsson continues on prevention and education. In fact, I didn't see it in the budget of December that he or any of the other couriers put a special amount of money in this suit or that he or she had a lot of money. A senator would have been especially involved. But, hey. A senator and a carrier doubt the reason why this will increase its bioavailability and will be identified. All right. I'd like to quote the report with the bill itself, by permission of the President: P-E-T-T-T-E-T. it suggests that the public health fund will be put on special emphasis on alcohol prevention projects for the next two years after approval of the bill. Is this in order to cope with the temporary changes alcohol consumption may make after a small sale of alcohol is released. What temporary changes are these that transporters believe alcohol consumption will be approved? [[The president calls.]] And what's the magic time this two years? [[The president calls.]] What happens after two years? In what study is it based that things change after two years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this comment and inquiry. Yeah, we're here to make a pretty big move on a big contribution to a public health fund. I can say that it is normal to follow, even if you do. further updating government policy on the best way to handle these funds, on which projects and what is needed. This is not necessarily thinking of a specific time limit, some magic solution or spell, but of people who are aware that we want these measures to work, want them to succeed, and believe that they will. That's why I think it's right that we look at it, see carefully how much of it works, and where you can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u101	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself save thanks for that answer because it was nothing. A lot I wanted to do. I got the caller listening to me because he obviously didn't hear me the first time. The report says, with the permission of the president, word for word: ▪ Is this to deal with the temporary changes alcohol consumption may make after a small sale of alcohol is released? What is the temporary change in alcohol consumption that a messenger predicts to become and his associate? Is he saying that there will be a temporary increase in alcohol consumption, and this calls for failure? Is it not, then, that he has come into quite a contradiction to himself when he is illustrating himself on research that says exactly what he himself has written but seems to have forgotten, at least he seems to be good at shooting at answering the question: What changes are the publishers of the message? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u102	A respectable president. I went over it in my history earlier that it is quite safe, quite possible, certainly possible, that alcohol will increase this bill by law. Yet, there is nothing to say with certainty. The amount of alcohol may be increased. Is that really in connection with this bill? Is this an increase in money or in the number of tourists? Or what is it that leads to it? [[Says here it's...]] For things related to public health, this change in which we give five times the resources of public health - five times the contribution of public health - to counteract the harmful consumption of alcohol, the effective treatment of prevention and education. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Take it up, says the bill.]] I get it. I get it. A senator does not object to this. So it's natural that we go to this arrangement and... - We have an opinion of it, we follow up, how the case comes forward. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[For example, consider: Why?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u103	The President insists that the members of Congress do not act in front of each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u104	Madam President. It is indeed a tragic issue in which members of the Federal Party of Independence once again present a bill of increased access to alcohol. How tragic that is! paritaprevir Bit Björn Einarsson to question hundreds of access studies, including alcohol, By the World Health Organization, which carries almost all of the same wells, an increase in the availability of alcohol results in increased consumption. In his speech earlier, there was a problem. A senator, by permission of the president, said that alcohol advertising would be more reasonable and modern - day prospects. Then I'd like to ask. A senator on the February 3, issue of Awake! which says, by permission of the President: Thus, the TV is a call for deterioration in human health, for example, for children's rights and young ones to be free of alcohol propaganda, and for all principle, to go against all goals in preemptive work and to conflict with public health policies that have been generally agreed on. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator on this statement?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u105	Madam President. I have this to say that alcohol advertising is a fact in Iceland. They're everywhere. They're on community media. They're on TV. They're on the radio. They're in magazines. National advertising is everywhere, and there are many forms of alcohol advertising in national media, in fact, often in small letters about dodgy. There is no doubt about what is being done. This is a fact, Madam President. They're everywhere. In fact, what alcohol advertisements are primarily doing is bringing consumption between species, there is no evidence that they increase consumption or that alcohol advertisements completely reduce their consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u106	Madam President. The answer is what? A senator is all over advertising. He also spoke of it in his earlier talk that in his bill it would be a complete barrier to selling alcohol to young people. That's why I'd like to ask. If there is such a barrier to this bill as he would like to be, who should supervise the sale? Who should be on that watch? This is not shown in the report or in the bill text. He says that this is a bill consisting of a complete barrier to access. I'd like to get some explanation from what happened. A senator of those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u107	Madam President. That's probably the answer. It is the European Commission that has the responsibility to enforce the law, whether it is the police or other health care providers responsible for the implementation of the laws, such as the legality of the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH), whether or not there are laws on drug dispensing drugs, etc. [[... policeincarceration?]] The permit holder's own responsibility is to obey the law. If he violates the law, it's the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u108	Total obstruction, you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u109	A respectable president. This issue is about the core of an informed decision to increase consumption by removing inexpensive preventive measures and by selecting more expensive methods, which are said to try to keep consumption unchanged, but we are removing less expensive methods by means of some of the access blocks and so on and using more expensive methods of prevention, instruction, and management. It's okay. This is an informed decision. What I feel is missing in the bill is the public health standards we're going to. It is said in the bill, as quoted earlier, that consumption may be in order to increase for a while. Wouldn't it be good to start prevention before we go out and increase the bioavailability? It is specified in the bill that the law should not take effect until January 1, 2018, which is a delay, but it often takes a long time to initiate all such preemptive activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u110	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. This is the legitimate tip, speculation. In some case, treatment may be more expensive. Not that which matters, but prevention, instruction, and treatment. Which is advice and assistance to those who need help. It works best. It works best to avoid excessive drinking. It is true that, considering the amount of time that the bill is expected to pass and that it becomes a law, I am especially ready to discuss in this council hall, in the conduct of the council, how governments can live in the best interests of the year - to - year districts on these issues, and to carry them out in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u111	President. I'll agree completely that these are the best ways of managing these matters. On the other hand, I would like to be offended only on behalf of scientists here in the Ponta Allallis, where there is no qualification. A senator says that he does not know things about methodology and at the same time question scientific practice, in effect, the professionalism of scientists where he himself is, however. A senator, he's not. However, I have worked and studied in such activities, knowing only what is involved. There are very many articles and literature in the way it is being noted here, that increasing the bioavailability results in increased consumption. There is no doubt that increased consumption leads to public health problems. Since there is no doubt about it, we need to set certain standards for where we will be. [[The president calls.]] How can we tell if this change will succeed or fail? We need to have the standard for governments as a government restraint so that they will know whether they need to go back or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u112	Madam President. It is not the intention of the person mentioned here to offend one or another or to weigh on the function of good scientists. It can be fully explained here that I am a fine follower of Karl Popper's theories on what is considered to be a scientific proven theory and when scientific theory is proved, etc. What I'm only doing in this case is that not all of these findings, summarised, complete. It is dangerous to draw too far - reaching conclusions and apply them to Icelandic situations, comparative research, or what happens in other countries around us that have no connection with Icelandic realities. That's my warning. It is true in this matter as well as in other matters, to avoid the origin of scientific doctrine. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u113	Madam President. I've been asking a lot about the media and others in recent years, i.e. Each time independents put in a camp booze bill, whether or not to allow alcohol to be sold at grocery stores. I've answered no. To this view, the following evidence is given. 1st Alcohol is not like any other food, nor is it necessary to support it further. Alcohol abuse is well - known, and it is only because alcohol is to be sold at special stores. 2. Increased bioavailability of alcohol increases consumption. There have been studies. Now those who disagree with me could say that the increase is not so great. In that case, each percentage increase in alcohol consumption increases, leading to an even greater rate of damage than the percentages below. There, e.g. There is a limit between moderate consumption and excessive consumption. 3. Increased consumption of alcohol causes health damage. The World Health Organization estimates that alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for public health. The cost of alcohol consumption is found in society, in health, in law enforcement, and in the justice system, in the insurance system, and in the business. If members of Congress are serious about supporting the bill, they also need to tell where to take the money in order to meet the cost. 4. Increasing consumption increases the distress of descendants and caregivers of those who consume alcohol to excess. If governments make decisions that lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, such as feelings of distress, such as increasing children and young people in this country. It is among the side effects that the bill will bring, it becomes a law. 5. If alcohol is found in a special store, it is a special decision to enter the liquor store and to buy alcohol, not as soon as you walk past the alcohol shot at the grocery store. 6th The preemptive activity of the Italians in alcohol abuse has attracted international attention. That's a job that even builds. how we have limited access, and that's how I want to keep it here. I have also asked why it is one of the priorities of the independents to get booze into the grocery store, why it is a matter taken up for other members of the council. What is the great need to do what the bill proclaims? Why is this the issue of independence? The last time we were discussing this matter, it was also put first with the independents. Then it was spoken of as a special matter of freedom. Granted, there are little side effects to society and expense, but this is about priorities and freedom in the eyes of independence. Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson wrote a good article published in the News magazine the last time such a bill was presented. In fact, he says, and I will make his word mine, by permission of the president: ▪ Alcohol is not the same as any other product. Drinking alcohol is not the same as drinking sodas or milk. Alcohol is a drug, and in my opinion, it is not a business to enter a supermarket. Rather, it should be because of the nature and damage of drinking as easily as possible. The main factors of public alcohol prevention are strong prevention, high drinking age, high alcohol taxes, and restricted access to alcohol. Alcohol prevention has over the years been very powerful, both by public members and by members of society such as the U.S.A., the sports movement, and the Good Work Programme. In Iceland, drinking has been higher than any other country we compare with. It's mostly Sweden and Finland, who have the same age limit as Iceland. Since the ban in 1922, alcohol sales have been under government control. Today, the State School of Alcohol and Tobacco runs 48 liquor stores across the country, ensuring adequate access to alcohol. When Gunnar Alexander Ólafsson wrote this article in the News magazine, it was 48, as noted by the author of the case. If one of the four sources of alcohol abuse were based on government policy, the result would be more alcohol consumption. This increase will lead to more social problems, more drunk driving, more domestic violence, more divorce, more alcohol - related deaths, more lost work hours for alcohol and society's institutions will have to spend more cost to cope with the consequences. In answer to what. I quoted from a recent Swedish study where results had been turned into Icelandic circumstances. It was not a beautiful reality. Is there any reason to change direction in Iceland? No. There's no need to. The surgeon general has published a summary of the study reports on alcohol. The research is extensive and the results are consistent. I'll give you a few examples here. In 2009 a survey of drug abuse by Icelandic youths was conducted in an international comparison between 1995 and 2007. The results of only watching alcohol are that in the last 30 days, young Icelandic youths between 15 and 16 years of age consume what the minimum alcohol is compared to other youths in Europe. Norway, Sweden, and Finland all place low on the list of heavy drinking countries. In Denmark, the highest level of alcohol drinking in Europe is sold at grocery stores. In a European study from 2010 for a summary of costs related to alcohol consumption, the results are that the costs associated with alcohol consumption include: Health services, social care, crime, drunk driving, and loss of employment all rise. In 2012, the effects of privateisations on alcohol abuse and its harm were examined. The conclusion is that there is strong evidence to suggest an increase in alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption as a result of personal and alcohol trade. Businesses on alcohol sales contribute to less harm than free sales. One of the most effective ways to reduce excessive consumption and prevent the death and harm caused by alcohol is the government's control at a store. In 2010, a study of the possible consequences of shutting down the government's patents on alcohol sales in Sweden and taking up free shops was conducted. Two cases were taken into account, first of all, the exchange of government patents for other private traffic stores, and secondly, allowing liquor sales at grocery stores. The first event is estimated to result in a 17% increase in alcohol consumption, which would increase the incidence of deaths by 770, assaults by 8,500, and illness days would increase by 4.5 million per year. The second event is estimated to yield a 37.4% increase in alcohol consumption, which will increase the incidence of deaths by 2,000, assault by 20,000, and disease days would increase by 11.1 million per year. There is also a 2011 study on the increase in alcohol consumption following personalization. This is a summary of 17 studies. The results indicated that a 44% increase in alcohol sales per person is in privatized. A 2013 Swedish study with a prescription ▪ Alcoholic and the community focus on young people. The conclusion is that despite evidence that alcohol consumption in Sweden has declined in recent years, the ratio remains high as well as its harmful effects. There is evidence that alcohol deaths, alcohol - related road accidents, and violence have become increasing, and it is important to maintain the government's patents on liquor sales, strict laws on drinking driving, and high drinking taxes. Alcohol consumption in the OECD countries has been studied. One such study is dated 2013. The conclusion is that Iceland, Norway, and Sweden join the European countries of OECD who drink at least a lot of alcohol, or about 7 liters per person in 2010, while the average OECD countries are between 9 to 10 liters per person. A 2013 U.S. study of the connection between drinking and economic growth in the United States has been conducted by a surgeon on the Web site. The result is that alcohol consumption increase is associated with a decrease in yield rate and alcohol consumption loss are associated with increased economic growth. Increases in alcohol tax increase economic growth. In view of what happened, I feel that this is a remarkable result. In his background, a senator discussed this very subject. It seems that those who talk about government management and the importance of increasing economic growth also want alcohol at the grocery store, although all reputable research shows that it has increased government cost and less economic growth. I think there's some strange contradictions in a lawsuit. The restoration of our health system is a priority, not an increase in access to alcohol that will increase the cost of our health - care system. In discussions with these matters, which lndependence deems to be a matter of priorities and freedom, the minds of the thousands of Icelanders who signed a challenge to us here, the legislators, and the financial powers, to contribute more to the health system in order to deal with the problems that exist there. There is a very bad situation in some areas in our health - care system, which is a matter of the heart to the people of the country. In the years to come, we need to do even more to cope with the situation today. The bill we're discussing here, this high priority for independence, is being proposed for increased access, much more access to alcohol, which all research shows will only lead to an increase in consumption. Increasing consumption means increased health pressure, not only on the health system, but also on the law enforcement system. That's a strange thought, Madam President. I view this bill as a direct violation of the people's will in the country. No one has called for it, except the movers themselves and the individual captains of large shops. But it'll have a serious effect if it's approved. Madam President. The bill has not been evaluated for the benefit of children. We here, though, have undertook to do just that by signing the United Nations Children's Covenant. It will also affect sexual violence. I would also like to mention studies that discuss how to reduce lifestyle diseases, including reducing the incidence of cancer. One factor is to interrupt access to alcohol because alcohol causes cancer if the intake is too high, from the throat to the rectum. All studies say that the primary influence on alcohol consumption is bioavailability and cost. Madam President. This bill's got nothing to do with it. It comes at a time that makes it so clear that it is not right now. Now we are to focus on more important matters, such as rebuilding the health system, building up the infrastructure, law enforcement, the country rescue forces, the educational system, social security, to name some important matters. We must not accept a bill that will increase the social cost and have so much negative side effects in which we would have to spend our energy and money and deal with the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u114	The president asks why. Harðardóttir Oddný'm sorry I mispronounced her name before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u115	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A new Harðardóttir Daughter for her speech. I can hear from the talk that we have a heartfelt agreement on this bill. I would like to ask her if she had examined the comments on the subject and seen how they are divided into two categories, how so much social science and health care professionals warn about the bill while shopping and services recommend it. I would like to ask her if she had wondered what kind of interest this bill was in caring for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. It is clear what interests are being cared for here. In fact, no one is calling for these things other than the carriers and then the big shops. I think it's perfectly obvious that this is a matter of special interest. It's not a matter of public interest here. I think it's so obvious that it doesn't have to be discussed. All studies support that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Yes, it is clear that we are. paritaprevir Our Oddný, Oddny Harðardóttir, sincerely agrees on what this bill's objective is. A review of children's health, mental - health, and child - care agent shows that they believe that increasing the exhibit will increase alcohol consumption, resulting in serious negative consequences to children's health, development, and safety. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, and I think I know what the answer will be: Is it not a heart - to - heart agreement that this warning is valid? Does she not worry about the feelings and development of their children, since we have a similar background and have both worked with children in our previous jobs, if the consequences are as warned?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u118	Madam President. We've accepted it here, generals, to evaluate all the bills of children's interests. It is indeed a bill that needs to be taken and examined with them. Those of us who have worked with children know very well what the consequences of their parents'drinking too much are for them to feel and to develop. Then I'm not talking about saying no alcohol. All I'm saying is that the bioavailability is good enough. It already creates a problem. Let's not add up on them. I understand the warrants of homes and schools that warn about this bill and, in fact, do more than that, they ask us senators not to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the Parliament gives a good overview of the subject of the bill and is especially happy that we will be together at this Bar Mitzvah feast. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson. It is indeed a contract for any independent to carry the livestock in a camp until the council. I just want to look up the senator because she was once the highest. Secretary of finance. What does she think about the section involved in earning the state's funds in the report, only to start with the underlying statement that the majority of the ATSVR revenues have come from tobacco sales that then drains the drinking fraction? There is a statement that this time does not belong to the diagnostic company Cleaver Data, probably because in the first pass of this case, the ATSVR stated that these numbers were of loose air. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The name is gone, but the numbers are standing. Does the former minister know the difference between tobacco and alcohol? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u120	Madam President. It's just been so long since I was a minister. I think it's time for me to be a minister again and discuss these matters. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The fact is, though, that alcohol consumption is accompanied by health damage and social cost. Of course, if there is a chance to earn money through that sales, as we do by paying for goods and other items, it should go to a government fund that carries all the costs of alcohol and alcohol abuse. So I don't think it's a good idea to take it from the state and take it over to shop so that they can profit instead of letting the profits and costs of alcohol go to the State that costs it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. There were some things I noticed in the talk of the prime speaker. He was, for example. how we discussed the matter here today was full of prophetic words. I'd like to see if there's anything I can do. A senator has the same predestination skills. original. You see, I recognized a few phrases from a prime speaker from the Evening Press, which was for the day evicted into every house here in the capital area. It was discussed with the director of Coca Cola, Iceland, one of the major stakeholders who intend to make a major contribution to this market, which is a source of alcohol for immigrants. A bill report points out that the majority of the government's income of alcohol is tax and expenditure and should not be changed. [[The president calls.]] Although Carlos Cruz, president of Coca Cola, Iceland, specifically notes that if alcohol dealers are free, they are free to lower their liquor fees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do the senator think is likely to happen? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u122	Madam President. Of course, it would be unwise to reduce the value of alcohol. In fact, prices are one of the powerful sources of influence on consumption. Alcohol, sugar and tobacco, these are the products of the World Health Organization that encourage the State to have high costs and high standards of prevention on these three types of products that are harmful to human health. Because of what? The senator quoted the speaker's speech, of course, is well - known to say: Now those who object are going to say this and that. I've just heard Trump say this at a press conference, and now those who object are going to say it and it's not true. It is a well - known way of doing what is right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u123	A respectable president. Since I didn't stop by earlier, I'd like to get a fountain of Oddný. Harðardóttir Since she has had these discussions before, she has been well acquainted with the case. I see a situation where free selling alcohol can take place without some public health problem there. But it takes constant work, instruction, and prevention to maintain such a culture that takes into account the harmful effects of this drug. What I wanted in there. A member of the council left: "Who should be on this bill? What have national authorities recommended regarding the reasonable standards of public health with regard to alcohol consumption, such as reducing it, or are we compromising on these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u124	Madam President. I don't have those rules on rhythms. However, the carriers of this bill have come to realize that it will have some effect on putting alcohol in a grocery store and taking the patent out of the government's hands, seeking to promote prevention. I think it's respectable, though, to realize that there's something going on around here that needs to be addressed. They believe that putting more money on preventative measures will be enough to repair the damage. I don't agree with that. I don't think that's going to fix the damage. Yet, that is a measure of effort on the part of transporters because, of course, they recognize the dangers of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u125	A respectable president. I'm just trying to point out that there is no standard for the government to be the security officer on this matter. The criteria are missing that tell them whether they will succeed or not. Another thing that I wanted to come to, but I didn't come back because the time was so short, is this: If the liquor store is dissolved, I'd like to set up an parallel in Icelandic society about the liquor store monologue, if it's due to be dissolved, why shouldn't I dissolve the first monopolizement status of the Lactates store? I'm not in the habit of putting things up against each other before or after, but somehow I feel that it is very appropriate in such a conversation during the past few months with regard to agricultural preparations and the like, that we should concentrate on deduction of mono-sealing milk before we go to the liquor store. We can start the prevention while we're at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u126	Madam President. I'm just gonna have to say the word. Senator. There are many things that should precede this. Of course, if people talk about the freedom and the law of the market and all of that, we should look at the conditions in agriculture of which the law of competition is given. We should also look at the structure and offer, for example. ............................................................................................................................ In some places independents want to be governed by the market law, otherwise not. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u127	A respectable president. I don't really know exactly where to begin. But, hey. A senator noted this as the priority of the Independence Party. It is now that the Independence Party has been in the government for the past, so the priority of the party is government, but the rest of the matter of Congress. I agree with you, too. A senator says that we should spend just as much time as possible setting priorities for basic services and the things that we want to do. A senator mentioned, but in this perhaps we disagree that I don't think the state should be focusing on running a liquor store while it's focusing on just the basic services that we have. A senator mentions. The fear propaganda is unbelievably great. Almost everywhere in the Western world, almost in every country that Iceland compares with us, the sale of alcohol is largely free, yet members of Congress insist that free drinking with all the demands on the bill only lead to the collapse of society as we know it. I wonder why. A senator also believes that government management is the best option. Would that also be the best advice on tobacco and even sugar? Counts 'em out. Not a senator like those of the bill for prevention, instruction, and treatment is the best thing to cope with excessive drinking? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u128	Madam President. I haven't done any kind of panic propaganda around here. I wonder why. A senator would call my speech and my opinion and arguments that I would present against the bill of terror. Alcohol is not a regular product. Alcohol is a drug. It affects people's health, but it also has harmful social effects. It has harmful effects in people's homes. The effects of parental abuse are harmful to the well - being of children. There are so many side effects. Even if I have sugar, it hurts me. But if I drink too much alcohol, it hurts not only me, but also my children and my family, and then it carries expenses into my health, law enforcement, and elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] We're not talking about sugar. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u129	A respectable president. Then we also disagree on what is fear - inspiring. But, hey. A senator, however, did not answer my question about whether she considered the best option to be government control rather than prevention, education, and treatment. Then I also wondered, " There is a lot of claims here that alcohol consumption will increase and is referred to in connection with foreign studies. ' However, this is not the case, and it is clear that the availability of alcohol has increased in the past decade. A number of new liquor stores, even more wine stores everywhere, and then, of course, Facebook groups that can be bought with wine, can always be accessed. Even so, youths consume less alcohol than they used to. Iceland's alcohol culture is much healthier than it used to be in years ago. How exactly does this agree with the claim that alcohol consumption will get worse when the bill is approved? It's just not gonna be like in the countries around us that we compare ourselves with what you senators have traveled to, I guess? Is it all there? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u130	Row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u131	Madam President. In fact, the countries around us selling liquor in stores are trying to find ways to go back. That is why it is so important for us to examine their experience, to examine studies that now did not make a great deal of it, but we need to look at hell as a warning example. Yes, I think it's important that the steering wheel be in the government's hands, but I also think it's important that there's a strong defense because we're not talking about ordinary products.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u132	President. It's best to say right away that I support the government's patent to sell alcohol. If the bill was just talking about it, I'd give it my support, too. But the bill isn't just about it. It involves an enormous amount of access to alcohol and the knife in the cow. You see, it is simply wrong what says in a paper with the bill, by permission of a president: ▪ Basically, the bill involves little change in the legal environment of alcohol and tobacco sales compared with the aim of making a small deal of liquor free. This isn't right. If that were true, the bill was just about selling liquor stores to the state, and then it kept all the other rules, limitations, and standards. There would be nothing more than to sell these stores and to place them in private stores. It's not. The bill is about other things. It's about how the pay period will be greatly extended. Alcohol can be sold until midnight from nine o'clock in the morning at every grocery store that meets that requirement. It's about freeing advertising on alcohol. And all of this that has to do with the bill other than the government's private sale makes me unable to support the bill as it stands. There is a questionable statement, which has only been made, in this paper, by permission of the president: It has not been demonstrated that there is a permanent causal relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. I cleaned up last night and looked up the tests that some have referred to here, followed the surgeon's chart with his comments on a similar bill last year. Just the overview was, I think, 14 or 15 pages, and I referred to dozens of scientific studies. I looked up the results of many of them. They were almost all compatible with this point on a direct causal relationship, a linear relationship, between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. More importantly, consumption increased in all alcohol abuse groups, including those who had moderate alcohol consumption, but most was increased in the most sensitive groups, i.e. for young people and those suffering from alcoholism. I ran through the reviews of those who had been sent to a similar bill last year, and all the professionals who covered this case -- everybody - protesting that this would be done by children's health care program, the Children's Children's Health Agency, the Icelandic Social Counselling Association, the National Medical Association, the Coalition of Children, the Children's Subcommitttee, the Falgiege of Public Health, the Icelandic Medical Association, and the rest of the streets. I don't think it's a coincidence that this is the case. It may also be a well - thought - out attempt, and it does not necessarily involve the use of alcohol at the grocery store in the way expected in the bill. In fact, it might also be imagined that moving wine to the grocery store would not have to include a huge increase in access if, in other respects, humans had limitations on the clean; the time of payment, the payment in shops, and so on. I don't think it's possible to argue that the bill as it stands means an enormous access to alcohol. I'm not gonna say anything here in 1st. A Eyjólfur rock might get a little better. The bill may improve in the case of a committee and return in another form. But as it stands, I can't support it. I'd like to allow me to argue that this is more of a matter of concern to me than of fate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u133	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing. paritaprevir Congratulated with his virgin talk, Páll Magnússon apologize for violating the unwritten rule of replying. A senator giving such a speech. As the senator probably knows, I support the case, as he says of these princely reasons, but I am still open to compromise. That's why I wonder which way. A senator may wish to change his mind as time goes on. There are now certain restrictions, alcohol needs to be in special spaces according to the bill, and there are limits in opening periods. See what? A senator, e.g. To think that it just needs to be shorter? I'm also making a general point that, as we've been in this room and I'm not arguing about it, it's very likely that the free sale of alcohol will increase bioavailability no matter how it is implemented. That is why a little bit of confusion is made in my mind to say that we are in the prince's favor to allow free alcohol to be sold but cannot support something that could increase access. I think it will increase bioavailability. I think it'll increase the consumption rate. I'm still following that. But I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator reasons for my stand. As a matter of fact, I am, in order to be maintained, in doubt that the correlation is linear. We know that while alcohol is not a regular consumer product, it is for many consumer products, i.e. Some drink wine with food, beer consumption is moderate, etc., which may not be harmful. Counts 'em out. A senator is really a linear influence? To sufferers e.g. of alcoholism or alcoholism will increase their numbers, or will they rather drink alcohol by buying it on Sundays? There are two factors, consistent with being supplied as free sale, but against increased bioavailability and linearity. [[The president calls.]] But the other, whether the senator can agree on changing the bill and possibly supporting it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u134	Madam President. Yes, I could well provide a bill in the creature that includes the removal of private rights or the government's patents to sell alcohol, which I could support if you could convince me that there is no increased access in it. It is easy to visualize the situation as this would certainly not have any effect on the bioavailability. It would be a simple solution, that it was nothing more than the patent that had been taken away and the stores of the state were sold and all the other restrictions remained. Whether the state is running stores or privates is of no importance. It could be imagined. As I said before, I shall not say that this increase in exact linearity, i.e. That drink. But it increases most, and for this, all these scientific studies are the most vulnerable groups, i.e. with the alcoholics and young people. That's what I think is risky. That is, in fact, because the damage is so direct as to result from increased consumption of these most vulnerable groups. Yeah, I can totally support a bill that I could support, which would take over the exclusive rights of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u135	A respectable president. I thank you for the answers. I hope so. A senator will be able to cooperate well with supporters as well as with opposers of this bill at the council to discuss the update and possible adjustments. In fact, I think that unless the government's patents are canceled, there will always be other people who will choose to sell alcohol on that basis, for example, that there are more grocery stores in the country than a wine camp. The other is a longer discussion that I'm interested in as a social scientist, i.e. by direct bioavailability. I've studied these tests as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir quoted the effect of alcohol consumption. But I haven't seen any of the studies that indicate that alcohol and that sort of thing have increased. Icelandic circumstances are an example of the contrary, since alcohol consumption has increased dramatically since the ban was removed at the same time as juvenile drinking has been very much contracted. Although there is undoubtedly some study that suggests something else, that does not seem to be a simple relationship. A senator quoted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u136	President. I appreciate the answer. I can't help but repeat what I once said about the dangers of increasing access. At least the change would be to change the camp's owners, making the demand that special stores stay but that alcohol would not go into the grocery store. But I can also imagine that there would be an increased access to the grocery store with the limitations that there would be at least an increase in bioavailability. By reason of the time of payment, by reason of store separation, and so forth. Still, I simply repeat that I can provide a bill for the being that I can accept, not as it stands.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u137	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate you on your virgin speech and your apology, breaking the unwieldy rule. But the talk was good, and it is vital that we have a word on these matters. I welcome the views that come out of the question. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, most of them. I welcome his position on the bill. I agree with him in what he put into his language, i.e. With regard to that error - I would like to say, but yet I take responsibility for that expression myself - it is not to be put at ease. A senator - who is in the bill that studies are not correlated, cannot be demonstrated. Hv. paritaprevir Bjot Björn Einarsson came into it in his case, and it can also be found in the bill, that drinking ads have no consequences but to move between species. Now's the time. paritaprevir When it comes to marketing and advertising, Páll Magnússon was at sea. I have to admit that to me, this is quite new news, and to some extent the basics of capitalism and the market for the supply and demand, about advertising, about awareness, about access and all that. What can we do? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon tells me about this, i.e. that drinking ads have no consequences besides buying one brand of beer over another day?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u138	President. Now I have not seen any tests that are particularly focused on alcohol in this situation or on this matter. They know that the effect of such advertisements is twofold. It's true that this is the competition of species. This brings consumption between species, depending on the ingenuity of humans in presenting their products. There is also no doubt that increasing exhibiting also increases consumption. However, I fully agree with the CDC that there is a paradox in that all the foreign media that people have access to here, whether on the Internet or on the printed page or anything else, are alcohol advertisements. There are, for example, no technical possibilities for preventing advertising in foreign media. It's very easy to point out, as a messenger and others have done, that this somehow violates the equality of those who sell or produce alcohol here in Iceland. But to me, other interests in this matter are more important and weighing more than segregators' equality. Advertising increases performance. Increased samples lead to increased consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u139	A respectable president. I thank you for your clear and clear comments, and I agree with the views expressed in the answers given. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon. In my second answer, I'd like to go for a bit. A senator of the position he presented could possibly support the isolation of the state of liquor sales, i.e. if nothing else did change around it, if I've understood correctly. Well, maybe. A senator saw that the sale of a private person could lead to extraterrestrial care that we do not take further steps to increase access or to any other direction, would be more difficult than if this were in the hands of the State? And is it such a princely matter that the state does not handle any of this kind of activity that it is safe to take that risk? [[The president calls.]] We are dealing with alcohol, which has special rules. We all agree that we need to associate with them with them with great caution. [[The president calls.]] Don't you think there's too much care for the monopoly of the state?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u140	Madam President. No, I don't think that government monologue guarantees no public health goals, in any way. We can even see in the current State School of Alcohol and tobacco that there is no guarantee. In many ways, this government monopoly has made alcohol more visible, making it more acceptable. It represents a market, though it does not represent direct advertisements; it boasts of the fact that this has become part of a culture of food, and so on. No, I don't think there's any guarantee that the government is running its stores. At least the change is possible because nothing more happens than that the state no longer owns these stores and that someone else owned them. But I also think there are other ways to make sure that wine goes to the grocery store. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u141	V.E.G. President. I'd also like to wish. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon for the Virgin speech and must naturally use the opportunity and take one brief answer. It was a pleasure to listen to a talk. Senator. He is well - informed and has obviously studied research and comments on the matter during the previous council. It gives me the hope that many independents are better informed than you thought at the beginning of the discussion and that they do not agree on the matter. I think it's very important. In some ways I can agree with the senator's comment that it may not be necessary for the State's monopoly on alcohol. We need to examine this matter in particular. But increasing the level of alcohol and access to alcohol is not an improvement in progress. It was obvious and easy to hear. A senator says we agree on this. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: Does he believe that he would change the current system? Who, then, does he think is the purpose of his contribution to a bill? Does he think that there would be some improvement? Is there anything in what he thinks might be a benefit to society? We're gonna go for a second. A senator spent a week together in the Southland last week. It found that those living in more scattered areas are concerned that products will be reduced, such as having less choice of alcohol in their own area, and that prices will rise. This is not only a matter of hazards due to increased bioavailability and potential increase in consumption, but it is also possible to increase the inequities for those living in the more scattered areas, for those who enjoy drinking alcohol and who are able to do so in moderation and who want to get alcohol at a sufficient price. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u142	Madam President. I must now say, as it is, from the public health goals I mentioned earlier, I would be more concerned that the price would be reduced rather than raised. As noted at the proposed transporter level, which has previously been observed, the price of the bioavailability is part. Therefore, it was simply part of the reasoning of the messenger of the bill that the price of the price should be kept, that the price would not be reduced. I quote a survey carried out in Britain on the availability of wine, which was, as it were, time of opening, performance, and price, these three factors, which determine the extent of the bioavailability. So I'm more worried about anything than that we're cutting down in this service to the more scattered areas of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u143	V.E.G. President. We are concerned that prices will either decrease with the expected increase in consumption, or that it will increase in the more scattered areas possible. Both are bad for me. I think the arrangement is fine just the way it is. I was at a meeting at the University of Southnes in the fall, I think that's why. A senator had been there with me, where we met students at school and discussed various cases before elections, including It's the liquor bill. We were asked how we felt about it. It stated that a large number of high school students are working with schools at grocery stores that may be allowed to sell alcohol. They were deeply concerned about their opportunities to work with school if they could no longer work with what they do today if alcohol went there for sale. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u144	Madam President. I forgot to answer one question addressed to me in a previous answer, i.e. what would be the benefit then, why the bill would be submitted, and what good it would be. I think there's quite a benefit in reducing the state's activities to this point. I kind of have the same opinion about the state's patent to drink and the fact that the state sells Victoria's Secret stuff up at Keflavour Airport. A small sale of that kind should not be in charge of the State. I remember what was mentioned, that the young people were worried that they would no longer be eligible in these stores. I think these views are many of them, but they are a distraction in this discussion. I feel that others and more important interests, welfare, or public health are underneath, so I think, in effect, as a secondary issue that does not control my opinion on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u145	V.E.G. President. Here again, we will discuss this blessed, multimedia alcohol bill. As mentioned in the discussion, the objective of the bill is that the government's patents on a little alcohol trade will be deposed, and a small sale will be free to a certain extent. The bill suggests changes in the legal environment of alcohol and tobacco sales according to the aim of a small exchange of alcoholic beverages to become free to meet certain conditions. Transporters feel that it is not the State's job to do a small sale. Rather, it is the State's job to set rules about it and to monitor it if necessary. Transporters feel that selling goods and services in accordance with government regulations is a personal responsibility. This view applies to alcohol and other consumer and essential products. As shown in a report by Public Health Centre, alcohol is not a regular consumer product. This is because alcohol has both direct and indirect toxicity to many organs and functions of the body. The primary explanation of social damage of alcohol is attributable to these toxicities, i.e. Alcohol abuse, as well as the association between alcohol abuse and injury, are clear and clear, especially with regard to violence, traffic accidents, and other accidents. A report also shows that alcohol policy aims are to rely on public health by impacting consumption, consumption and access to treatment and management of alcoholic patients. Various conditions and terms of public health enable authorities to deal with the health problems of consumption and alcohol abuse by making it easier for them to plan better prevention and treatment. Dating alcohol has always been a guide in reducing the harmful effects of alcohol consumption on health and safety, but only in recent years, policy has been based on scientific facts. The bill we discuss here suggests that alcohol will be sold free, and I cannot agree with it, especially when we look at the views that may include. are listed in the Public Health Report, and I came in earlier. In recent years, the TVR has defined its social responsibility in a somewhat thorough manner and is responsible for the following factors: first, its TVR role, e.g. is not allowed to sell. Second, careful monitoring is carried out by the age of clients and also helps to build a wine culture, e.g. education for customers In addition to this, association with police and organisations involved in prevention and special emphasis is on making alcohol more difficult for youths to access. A report with the bill also shows that the score on the TVR in 2016 will be 30,200 billion. At a rate over 2% higher than the budget expected in 2015. It is estimated that a profit in 2016 will be over a billion. Big money by the end of the year will be similar. About a billion are expected, or 1,000 billion. A.J., cashiers in the state's funds. There is no denying that there is a significant benefit to the treasure of the land. However, it is stated in the bill that on December 31, 2015, the Agency's property, i.e. TVR, less than 6 billion, if I've read it correctly, and an unbounded budget of more than 4. But the short - term debt was 1,739 million. K. Clearly, there is considerable money involved in the management of the Agency. The bill also shows, and it's positive as far as it goes, raising on the level of alcohol that will go into public health. It is suggested that this ratio increase from 1% to 5%. With the extra budget, special emphasis will be given on preemptive activities in the field of alcohol, on how to treat the most needed, so that prevention is priority, as well as therapeutic and social support for children and adolescents and individuals and for the families of those who are in excessive consumption. In this regard it is urgent to consider the preemptive actions that have proved their worth, as shown by the bill. What I find negative, however, is that it is bound to this bill's approval. It may be noted that changes can be made and changed without linking this matter. I'm reminded that Steingrímur J. Sigfússon proposed to the previous council a bill of the same content, to raise this percentage in order to increase prevention work. I was going to file a case at the beginning of a council to raise that ratio, but I was then advised to do so. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon intended to reroute the case. And, yes, I also think it's too short of time that the increase is solely meant for two years and wondering why the money shouldn't go there for a long time. A respectable president. Since this bill has appeared several times before, let me quote earlier comments on the subject and also point to recent conclusions and challenges presented by important office. I'm here to discuss the words of a surgeon, who is this way, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is sad in itself that [the motion] has come again and again. According to a surgeon, those who work to improve their health are opposed to this bill. All available studies suggest an increased bioavailability of alcohol leading to increased consumption. ▪ All available studies suggest that the increased bioavailability of alcohol results in an increase in Birgir of ▪ Especially, then, are we talking about vulnerable groups like young people and those who are unable to tolerate alcohol, and as a result, our health is further affected and the cost to society is increased, as he says. It is obvious that this office, which will contribute to the better health of the people of the country, cannot help but resist such a bill. I would like to consider in my speech whether the movers agree with the surgeon and are not concerned about the increased social costs likely to be, if the bill is legal. Are these same senators willing to contribute a substantial amount of money, much more than a state-of-the-art budget, and respond to increased pressures likely to be made by the surgeon and other health - care providers? Also, the Children's Share, UNICEF in Iceland, and the Children's emissary concluded the matter and issued a common challenge on the basis of what we're discussing here. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ We invite senators to study closely the research and the position of professionals in the field of health and social care for the bill. It makes it clear that the removal of private ATVR and the increased level of alcohol in advertising will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption in both adolescents and adults. Therefore, if it is realized that the changes proposed in the bill will have serious negative consequences for the health, development, and safety of the children. It also says, by permission of the President: It's the same as Article 3. The United Nations Children's Covenant, which is part of Icelandic law, is to be put before the interests of children when making decisions that concern children in one way or another. Therefore, children's interests as a result of being protected from the harmful effects of alcohol should outweigh other views. So if the bill is approved, it will violate one of the basics of the children's covenant. In addition, the bill violates the basics of the children's covenant. At the same time, in the days, the cancer club sent out a challenge. With the permission of a president, I will also read up that challenge. It says: ▪ With the bill, access to alcohol is being suggested to increase dramatically as a family problem, social costs, health problems, and the pressures on the health system. Increased marketing will lead to the same. A number of health and social sciences, as well as Society organizations, have given good and practical evidence that such a practice would be bad for public health. For decades the World Health Organization has suggested that Member States work to reduce the total consumption of alcohol. A decision that affects alcohol cannot be made on the grounds of normal consumer products. It also says that alcohol is known to increase the risk of cancer of the oral cavity, throat, trachea, oesophagus, liver, colon, rectum, and breast. There is evidence that this would increase the risk of prostate cancer and other types of cancer. It is estimated that alcohol is the cause of about 4% of cancer deaths or about 25 people a year here. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the cancer club to do everything possible to reduce its consumption and not to increase it. Therefore, the government encourages members of Congress to strike down the bill. A respectable president. In the assumptions that came to pass. The General and Education Committee on the implementation of the case, when it was last discussed at the council, the reviews of the case were divided into two groups. It was quite remarkable, or perhaps not, perhaps just very predictable, that all persons working in sociology and health science warn of the approval of the bill, but many or most of the people who run or represent shops and services are agreed to do so. Why? I ask: What interests are being cared for? I'm going to take advantage of my speaking lesson in reviewing why. The welfare committee on the matter. The committee was given the case when it was last discussed at the General Assembly and was sure to be the same as before. I'm not going to read the entire conclusion because it's a little long and a little time left. But I'm going to take some points from it and swerve at the end of my talk on the subject. By permission of the president, we even say. ... ina reviewof why. well-being committee from previous contributions: ▪... alcohol consumption, according to the World Health Organization, is the third major contributing factor in human health. Later, says: ▪ Alcohol causes cirrhosis and various types of gastrointestinal cancer from the oral cavity to the anus. This increases the incidence of breast cancer in women. In view of the spiritual and physical consequences of alcohol abuse and accidents, the health effects of alcohol are also widespread. The World Health Organization sent a letter to the surgeon general for the contributions of the bill and urged that the Icelanders hold to their policy of monologue, as this reduces consumption. It is noted that alcohol consumption in Iceland is less than average in Europe and that the drinking of young people has been successfully reduced. In 2008, Swedish and international specialists in alcohol research were required to study its effect on Swedish society if government consumption of alcohol sales and selling alcohol were permitted at grocery stores. The results were striking. Alcohol consumption would increase by 37.4% and result in a higher death rate, increased violence, an increased number of those who drive under the influence of alcohol, and an enormous increase in days of illness. A study conducted by students at Bifrost won, so to speak, at the same time as when the case was presented - ▪ showed that the same effect would be on land. These studies show that increasing bioavailability leads to increased consumption, leading to multiple social problems. Prophylaxis was considered counter measures in case the bill became a law. For example, prevention was recommended not only for education but also for example. Administration of bioavailability and pricing. We'll discuss why. The welfare committee on the effect of the bill on the well - being of children showed that increasing the bioavailability would threaten the success of reducing alcohol consumption in young people. It was noted that instead of special training personnel, workers in the grocery store would cover alcohol and cover staff ages at 18 years. The pressure of even young adults from peers to sell them alcohol is no longer necessary. It was also noted that the UN considers a fourth child to have a parent or another close associate who is an alcoholic. There are about 22,000 children. According to U.S.A., children would grow if the bill became a law. I'm fully aware that we're many of them. Congress officials disagree on the matter. It is very important to have a good discussion with 1st. Because this will likely affect the work that will take place at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Here we are setting the lines for the continued work of the case. It will be informative to monitor its progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk; it has more than I have to do with having participated in discussions about this bill before, is it not? But I just want to talk about the factors. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir came in, i.e. These tests. Now we listened to each other's issues. the carer of the bill, who was extremely minor in all his research. In fact, a paper with the bill itself shows that there is no way to demonstrate an association between increasing access to alcohol and increasing its consumption. In this regard many have pretended that Iceland is a magical land, that it doesn't have the same rules as any other country. We are so special that our research has been done in our neighboring countries and even beyond our reach. I guess because we're just so great, I don't quite understand the explanation. I might have wanted to ask you what. A senator's details. She has taken a close look at these tests. Is it not true that what we compare with our countries and where these research has been carried out applies to us here? Of course, we are no different from other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u147	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér before the counter, or the conversation, kind of. I take very seriously the studies that have shown - these are highly respected professionals in both sociology and health sciences - statistical information on how to increase the bioavailability of alcohol can affect the health, life, and development of children. I think there is good reason to take the information we receive in these statistics seriously and to keep them in mind and really look at them when we make material coverage and make such major decisions as these. We can mention that such organizations as the Children's Environment, UNICEF, the management of Iceland's Cancer Society, and other people have been quoting these studies. This is an organization, this one and many others, who have achieved tremendous success in their work. Also, I recall the previous contribution to home and school to research on this subject. We can mention the good that cooperation between home and school has had in the past. In this context, I feel that it is very important to look to their research. Although we are often discussing foreign research, I think we do the same. Though we are a small nation that is like a neighborhood in a big city in the world, all of us are people with similar behavior, despite differences in culture and everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir answers the question. Just the same thing: Hv. A senator only introduced what I and others made up to talk about earlier, i.e. the two - year term expected by the bill. I was trying to dissipate the transmission bill, okay? paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson, about the answers to this, but they didn't get much of it. This is expected to increase the consumption that the bill will bring - it may be an extraordinary honesty for the carers of the bill to accept it - but that a two - year prevention project will equalize it all. Now I know what to do. paritaprevir Lára Lara Arnardóttir is better at various things than I am. Does she know that a prevention project that should alter the nation's pattern of consumption is a two - year project? And a little, because both of them had a hard time. Transporter and more oar. This bill's followers have talked about an increase in the value of prevention, education, and management, and if I remember it correctly, the part of the alcohol charge will be raised from 1% to 5%: is driving. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir agrees that there is something we could do regardless of what the arrangement is about selling and whether it is all given free and allowed to advertise like any other consumer product? Why don't we just put together the carriers of the bill that they'll do it and then turn down the other suggestions on the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u149	V.E.G. President. That's a great idea. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. We can quite agree that this will be agreed, regardless of the agreed bill. So I suggested, and I went to the importers to find a change in these laws to raise the alcohol charge from 1% to 5% regardless of the case, but then I found out why. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon intended to do the same thing, and I think we should agree on that, for now. Councilmen, speaking against it regardless of this; that there is something ahead of them. These two years: I don't understand, and I haven't had answers to why these are just two years and if they should change anything in the big context of the pattern of consumption or what it is. I think there's a very great need to increase this rate, to increase funding for public health funds on prevention. We saw it, for example. in the December 8, 2007, press reports that drunk driving has grown to a high level and is now similar to what it was in 2007, which was enormously high numbers. This is something we want to take against ourselves. It's dangerous and it's a significant crash rate. It was said in the press that in order to counteract this increased effect on drunk driving, money would need to be increased in ancient reserves. Then my idea of raising that price arose. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon intends to serve here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's business. I noticed that she stopped at the same sentence in the paper as I might if we think we're here for a party. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einar Einarsson, 1st carry the word of faith in this bill: That it is not the State's job to do a small sale. Why is that not the role of the State? Yes, for those who write this sentence believe that money - making schemes in the hands of the State should refer to private people so that they can profit from it. There is much to say about business at a liquor store, but it is in a way not conventional profits. The eviction is moderate, and the state is much more involved in the cost of goods, something that would likely turn around if sales moved to private hands. Now you're sitting down. A member of a welfare committee who is expected to know quite well the drafts that are fired up every time we start talking about charges as consumer management, such as. a sugar tax. It's going a lot worse to put a sugar tax on and keep it going longer than one weight. May we not expect this bill to become a law - and - private bill to be of interest in breaking down the official charge of alcohol that there will be a series on the street each year to capture the ears of health committees and legislators in order to reduce alcoholic beverages and other restrictions on alcohol so that the State's consumer role will be cut off?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u151	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. And what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, thank you very much for your answer. Yes, it is true that in the bill's report, we followed the same phrase that the movers feel that the State is not to be involved in this operation. In any case, it would be helpful to see that as a matter of course. A senator points out with his private stocks, if this was given to a free and private person to look after the sale, it would be interesting to see what would happen. But what he says is that it is a little moaning when we consider such ideas as increasing appeals for certain factors through the income or financial work or what it is now. I have to say, for my part, I think the role that ATVR has today really works really well and they do their part of responsibility, as shown by the bill. It says that ATVR plays its part in a responsibility, e.g. They do not allow any retail action. They are under strict surveillance of the age of customers, and they cooperate with the police and stakeholders who work for prevention, and they give particular emphasis on making it difficult for youths to get access to alcohol. I also remember it from my working college years ago that Vienna, or ATVR, has been rewarded for its social responsibility because they have contributed a significant deal to the prevention of alcohol prevention. The role that ATVR plays today is truly good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir responds and looks forward to cooperation, since I assume that this case will come to the table of both health committees, both of whom are concerned. There's a senator sitting in a full-blown Board of Education and Education I own a seat in. The State's alcoholism and its application are very complex. As matters stand, it may be very simple to assume that the small sale is on the hands of the public person. If private property were to receive the small sale, we would have the reality of it. In his letter of transit, a traveler mentioned that we had to make out beer cops in every camp to see that the rules are being carried out. We'd have to increase the tax status of those people who can sell it to a man who's not used to business, I imagine it's anything but easy to hold on to the fees of alcohol. Then we are back to what I mentioned in the previous answer, whether this traditional chorus is not likely to come if there were private but not public who would have to stand in all that would be disposed of, due to the public fees of complex goods. Would it not, then, be the tax reduction code that came along with his brother, the simplified code, who would like to extort the rule around the stress of alcohol, lower along the way, and thus further defuse the power of control that the State has on this product?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u153	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the second answer. I must admit that I fell out a bit earlier, since I was brought up with a point that I was wrong. I said that what ATVR did well, this part of the ATVR, I talked about it coming in a paper with the bill. That's wrong. That's a song reference, isn't it? Yeah. I believe that's what happened. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson points out that the value is very high. We all remember and know the requirement to simplify certain rules and things to that effect. It is a question of whether they will encounter tax reductions and simple ones and sing together in a chorus and how that would affect them. I think it might be very complicated for the operator, especially less the operator, the merchant of the corner or the merchant west of the beach, to hold all this, merchants who may not have a lot of employees at work. This would even be a burdensome cost for this small merchant who is struggling with Hagar and Copenhagen every day to keep his clients with him. I look forward to continuing to share in the discussion today and even to swerve things out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u154	Madam President. We'll talk now, and not for the first time in this council hall, about the bill for changing the law that goes on to authorize alcohol to anyone other than the state of the state, a bill that has often gone under the title booze in concentration camps, which is actually called a lot, not everything, but many things that have to say about the bill's content. This is very controversial, and it has been reflected not only in conference discussions as well as in committee jobs where it took place to form more of the welfare committees against the case. This has also been illustrated in reviews of the issues that have been received during the previous councils. I remember that last year the reviews were 49. There must now be a number of reviews on a matter of Congress. Congress usually doesn't get so many reviews. Most spoke these comments against the approval of the bill. I'd like to mention this as an example of the surgeon general. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ On the basis of the best available data, as well as a review of the results of studies and advice The World Health Organization on Alcohol Action is limited for alcohol to be one of the most effective ways to cope with alcohol abuse and thereby reduce the damage caused by alcohol. Later in the review, the surgeon general noted that the office received a letter from the World Health Organization's European Office, which describes concern over the possible consequences if the government's private charge of alcohol is canceled. This is part of the evidence that the members of the Parliament have in their possession to base their views on this matter. It is also noted in additional data received from the surgeon general that Icelandic youths aged 15How old are drinking at least alcohol compared to other youths in Europe and that Norway, Sweden, and Finland all place low levels of alcoholic beverages in young people. While drinking is restricted, Denmark has the highest level of alcohol consumption in Europe. This is also part of the evidence I believe that we senators must consider our activities and discuss the matter. A review of a year ago's agent from the Children's Office says, by permission of a president: ▪ The director of children is wondering what the interest is in caring for the above bill. A number of studies show that alcohol increases alcohol consumption in the community, resulting in serious negative consequences for children, families, and society all. As mentioned earlier in our discussion today, we members of the Parliament are especially responsible for the interests of children. There are quite a few data and comments that we members of the Parliament can use to clarify matters right away at 1st. In order to be reasonable, I would like to say that there were also reviews of people who wanted the case to be accepted and recommended it, but the accompanying references were that, to a large extent, there were reviews of business sources, people who were associated with the business organization, or people in the business sector. As we discuss this bill, one of the important things to me is the question: Is alcohol an ordinary consumer product, and can we talk about it like other consumer products? I don't think so myself. I don't think alcohol can be classed with conventional consumer products. This is where I agree with the management of public health experts, who recently gave up a review saying that alcohol is not an ordinary consumer, and that it stresses the management of public health experts. The review also says, with the permission of a president: It is obvious that the bill violates public health policies and policies in alcohol and alcohol abuse, both of which have been approved by the government. Also, the management of public health experts draws attention to the fact that this bill is not working in the spirit of getting health into all policies, as the World Health Organization recommends and is in the spirit of public health. It's not really possible to pass a break and say that, of course, it would have been nice to have the highest. A health minister in the hall calling his opinion on the bill and on how it harmonizes otherwise with the policy he wants to pursue in public health policy. I'm just hoping that before 1st. the issue ends with the highest Óttarr. He is the minister of Proppé for the matter, and we get to hear his position on the matter, because I think it may matter to us members of Congress, and I think that it may also matter in the general community. Before I went out on this bus for the highest. I was discussing alcohol as a regular consumer product, and I had already said that I did not think so myself. It was interesting to me that, as was true in the last assembly, the bill has now done in the paper, often speaking about alcohol, and it has even dealt with other consumer products. That's what it says, e.g. in a subheading on page 8. 8 In the report with the bill: 'Counsel selling alcohol with another consumer product.' On page 18. 9 is simply stated, by permission of a president: It is common and legal to eat such things as, for example, alcohol consumption. Tobacco and ammo. These are, of course, legal products, at least in a certain context, but I think none of these are common consumer products. However, when the bill and the paper are all read and examined in context, I feel that the transporters of the bill are not quite sure if this is really the case, because at the beginning of the report on page 6. 5 said, with the permission of the president: The bill suggests as little changes in the legal environment of alcohol and tobacco sales as possible, according to the objective of the free retail of alcohol to meet certain conditions. As far as I can see from the fact that there are certain conditions that must be met, the matter must be governed by some particular law. That is why it is strange for me to talk about this in kind as a general consumer but to admit that certain conditions need to be met. V.E.G. President. I have considered the matter to be all evidence that it is not to be used as a free sale but to feel that it will remain in the State's way and that the state has a clear way of managing the matter and controlling its bioavailability. So I thought seriously after a talk. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon here earlier today, which I actually loved about a lot of good things. Hv. One member of that congregation pondered a number of important matters, explaining that he could not accept the bill in the form it is presented here, but he said that perhaps it would improve in the course of the council. I wondered, " Is that exactly what this is happening to me? ' Transporters, for we who have previously discussed the matter see that the bill has gone further in some areas. More changes have been made than has been made in the early posts of the past, such as allowing alcohol to be advertised but with certain restrictions. I wondered if it's a rhythm - I don't always like using military terms, but sometimes I just can't think of any other word - i.e. to reroute the lines, and then to enable the Commission to make adjustments in their proposals to substantiate and form the source to allow alcohol to be advertised. Nevertheless, the government's retail rights are to be canceled, and thus alcohol is introduced into the retail market. I think it will be so easier to take larger steps to clear up the time of the day allowed to sell alcohol and thus further increase access to alcohol. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that there's something that we senators must totally agree on in both our coverage here at the Senate Hall and on the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u155	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. I'd like to ask her about the reviews that have been received on the subject since the previous hearing, if she had examined and remembered them, and seen how they are divided into two groups; health and social science professionals warn everyone of the agreed bill, but the owners and stakeholders certainly recommend it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she saw this and wondered what value it is to care for the contribution of this multiplicityd alcohol bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u156	Madam President. As I mentioned in my speech, I think there were about 49 reviews about the case during the last assembly. Most of them, but not all, opposed to the approval of the bill they were having and what many of them had agreed together was just that there were people working in the health, youth, education, or the management sector. On the other hand, like a whale. A senator pointed out, they were in the trade and service sector favouring the bill. So I see no better than that those with a public health and welfare motive would oppose the bill, while those who see to it that they can make money and get a little of it agree on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u157	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for the answer. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Eagle's Árnadóttir. I'd also like to ask, because it's been raised to me, what's going to be, for example. with the status of children and young people who work in stores today? Now you only see it when you look into the Bonus or the Crown that most of the time, most of the time, at least in my country, they work in boxes. She does not worry about it, despite a bill report, that there is actually an increase in alcohol access, and how she is going to feel. A senator? You wonder about the security of children who are making extra money with school. Or is the store going to solve this by having one store manager with 20 plus, running between the boxes and rolling the bottles through? You can't see how it should work and limit the access at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u158	Madam President. I find this interesting as a friend. A senator rolls up. I think there will be increased pressure on young people under 20 years of age who work at store stores to cover alcohol. I think it's one of those things that it's okay for us senators to keep in mind. As I said in my speech, we are required to consider the interests of children. I think we might as well take into account the interests of young people at work in all our jobs as well as their interests when it comes to public health, i.e. Living in a different way, and people in general feel well. I feel that it is flat on the case that should not be ignored or ignored. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u159	A respectable president. Me and what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir can agree on things. I can't wait to get the case done. We need to consider various viewpoints, including public health issues. We can make changes in the bill to reach them. I still run my eyes into one, and that's what I'm doing. A senator quotes from the children's emissary and what came from them. It quotes the United Nations Children's Covenant. Counts 'em out. Senator of all the countries that have signed the treaty, Albania, Austria, France, Estonia, Switzerland, Portugal, Ireland, Canada, Denmark, Belgium, Britain, Italy, Denmark, do not satisfy the covenant? Do all these countries think badly of their children? What do you think? A senator, in effect, about those countries who have free alcohol but who are still members of the children's covenant? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u160	Madam President. Fortunately, nearly all Europe is breaking the United Nations Children's Covenant. I believe, however, that when we create a change in the system we have today, we need to consider whether we are taking a step that could reduce the safety of our children in our country at this point compared to what we believe will be changed by the law. I see no other than we have a duty to look into it when we have a case in our hands right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u161	A respectable president. This is exactly what I find rather interesting about all this discussion. At the same time that our children are being cared for in these lands, we tourists are thought to be terrible bad people. We're putting Iceland's children in grave danger. The fear propaganda here is quite different. But it is not the same with the countries around us that we so often compare ourselves with, which have this exact form on a liquor store.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u162	Madam President. I feel nothing wrong when we claim to ourselves that if we simply feel that we can do something better than any other country that doesn't have to be down to it, we should, of course, do it. If we are going to take steps that will make children worse, or we are in danger of doing so, we need to ask ourselves, " Am I fully fulfilling my role? ' I think it's one of the most important things that we do, to wonder how the decisions we make here are about to affect people and especially children.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u163	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that there's one government company that I care about, that's ATSVR. I myself in the prince's hand totally agree with this bill. I understand the public health issues against that. I understand them. Now these same public health concerns were used when the beer was to come to Iceland. People health experts and all this group said when the beer was due to come here, everything would go to hell. Experience was very different. The fact is, young people have been drinking together in spite of much, ten times, more available. I wondered: " How does that work? These tests check Icelandic reality, don't they? Or do people who do these things fight against everything like this? I don't know. But these facts are obvious to me. [[The president calls.]] I ask, What does the senator explain?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u164	Madam President. First, I want to say that I like to hear what's going on. A senator is an ATTVR. - Did you report charges?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u165	Yes, very dear, very dear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u166	I like it. I like to feel it. Yet, a senator who so disagrees on so many matters has very much in common, including this. That's why I don't quite understand how you can agree with this bill and want to put down what you love. But that's not what I was asked about. I think that the reason that it's been so good in Iceland to reduce juvenile drinking is that even though there's an increase in alcohol access, it's still within a very clear frame. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is because it is in special stores but is not always visible to the young in their daily lives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u167	V.E.G. President. This company is only dear to me because we've been along for so long. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, increasing bioavailability in per se is not necessarily an increase in alcohol consumption. That is likely to result. So it's about special stores or general stores. I understand people who have struggled with addiction not to want to keep these before their eyes when they buy food. I understand that. However, I believe myself that the greater responsibility men have for themselves is the better if it lasts longer. But I totally understand. Although I am on the prince's side with this bill, I am not particularly interested in going against it if more of the nation wants it to remain the same. I'm not that competitive after I started to improve the ministry so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u168	Madam President. It happens over and over again, I feel, and the more I get the feeling of it. A senator better, that we come to the same conclusion than by some very different route. This is part of the case. I find that interesting. A senator said and used it as a argument that if this matter did not drown in the nation, he would not be anxious to accept it. I don't know that this case is a top priority for the nation. I think that's a whole different story. I think it's health, education, and transportation matters that burn on the nation, not on this subject. In terms of the bioavailability argument, I'm just worried about it, and I only came into it in my speech, that if the state gives up the minivan on alcohol, which may be what some have. Senators are willing to accept if something else goes out of this bill, if we have already lowered the fence so much that it's going to be adjourned and demanding even more compromise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u169	Madam President. I just wanted to respond to a word. A senator with speculation about some kind of line and some kind of poker game, that there might be a warrant for advertising alcohol in the council and the opening point for the bill being going beyond the present system. I would like to respond to this, one way to say that there is no poker involved, and the other is to say that I disagree. A senator says it's gone further. The reality is there's alcohol ads in all around us, that's real. On the contrary, the bill is introduced into the reality in order to stop and control the reality, by keeping an eye on it, and by doing so, for example. to suggest that any alcohol ads follow a warning or encouragement to improve their consumption, instead of acting like drinking ads when everywhere they are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u170	Madam President. Instead of accepting the problem that advertisements use alcohol are, I find it unusual to use alcohol advertisements to make sure that the system does not display some sort of sneaker advertisement in the Icelandic media. I thought it would be a far better way to deal with this than to give legal authority to promote alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u171	Madam President. Thank you for this reaction. A senator can respect her position, but he is honored to disagree. In fact, I don't think it's unfair to try to stop all the alcohol advertisements that are already in all our surroundings. I just don't think that's possible. So it is much wiser to respond to and meet that reality in some way, except for all other forms of friendship with that subject, for example. An unfair position of competition between people of the country to form small rocking houses that contribute to a better wine culture compared to, for example. others. Right at the end, I want to talk about the results of a staff group in 2010, which then was the highest. The secretary for the budget of Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfugson, says, by permission of the President: Since advertising on alcohol is unrealistic, it is unrealistic to intend to stop it completely. This is in accordance with the rules of most North countries and is likely to improve the monitoring of more efficient ones and to eliminate the quality of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u172	Madam President. It's obvious that I and I were. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir will consider this matter, and the ways of dealing with alcohol advertisements that are not authorized by law today are vastly different. But I think it's serious, and I like it. A senator said last year's answer is, at least, not in her mind some beat-up or something that is presented to negotiate a milder version. I feel that this is a serious matter for myself, so I think it's only a matter of course. A top-of-the-art Board that gets the bill to come up with has a little time to explore it and explore it, because it's new. [[The president calls.]] We have quite a few information on things about how to make public health from the previous council, but I think it's worth a bit of a powder to look at this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u173	A respectable president. I just want to start by saying thank you for the discussions we've had here. They've been a bit of a topic of business, and I hope so remains. It is also important to have good discussions here. She's supposed to be celebrating. I hope that the facts of the matter will then be enjoyed. I'm going to try to find a few things without going through the whole bill and extend the discussion too much. There are some things I want to go over. I would point out that this bill has been published many times before and that it has been very much discussed. The bill facing us today bears that mark. The discussion has been over, and the situation has developed. It's never been the same before. There are always some changes, and I believe that the changes that have now been made to cope with most of the concerns that have been the most important in public health. I can tell you right away that I've never been ready to go that far to make the changes to the bill that these are just special stores. You see, we're just talking about the capital area. I can say that if it was about the capital area alone, it would be no problem to do it that way. We need to talk about how this will benefit as many people as possible in a variety of ways, both commercial and commercial, not just about alcohol, and how this country's inhabitants enjoy equal service. There is just so much urgency that there would not be a management ground for special shops in small places and other things, and as the state behaves today, the competitive position of many stores around the country is lost by its location at liquor stores. That's not good. That's why. But then I'm going to enter the important change that took place in this bill for a store in the store, completely like ATSVR runs its operation and has done for years. I feel that it is a very big step to meet the concerns of having these in the grocery store. I also state that there is no point in this bill that it is in grocery stores. This may be a special store, and this may therefore be in the donor markets if it is to be replaced, but it is reserved, a store in the store, unless government allows otherwise to meet certain conditions. This is very important. Then let us discuss all the research developed on this bill and the consequences of its approval based on the way the bill is made, with these facts in mind. I can quite agree that increased bioavailability increases the consumption rate. That's what we're looking for. I'm not going to contradict them. I've never done anything. However, I have said: I have never seen how the bioavailability change in this bill matches the increase mentioned in research. According to the World Health Organization, a low price on alcohol is 100% higher than the number of sales. We're not changing anything about heavy charge over alcohol costs. They will continue to run into the treasure of the Kingdom, and the government will still guide them. The number of sale sites is certainly a bomb, and they could increase with the approved bill. They would not necessarily be more visible if they were in relative space inside any other house, not with big windows, as the wine store has on all the foundations of the capital area. Homegier is a bioavailability. People hamster because they live far away from the store or at a limited time of payment. It's a certain bioavailability. I don't drink alcohol myself, but a lot of Icelanders who have been enjoying their drinks to answer the government's arrangement for selling them. A Obscurial is hardly growing with the appearance of the bill. I find that hard to believe. There is a certain bioavailability, especially for young people. Age limit is a biofuel. We're not reducing the drinking age of this bill. Subsidual time is also a biofuture. True, it is extended by a few hours, but the liquor store has been extending it. This is one of the things we can discuss in the case, whether this is an effective factor that we need to back until eight o'clock, from midnight to 8, like the liquor stores, in most of their stores today except on land. True, the settlements are only scrapped an hour, but its capital citizens are good enough to have opened up until eight o'clock. Let us discuss this from these reasons. That's where I've crossed the fact that the bioavailability isn't the major factor in this. I am a spokesman for liberality and freedom and would be willing to contribute a free sale for alcohol, but I am a spokesman for freedom with responsibility, and therefore we have this under clear conditions, and according to the guidelines of the World Health Organization, which states that prices are the most important factor in the bioavailability and that the state is not very good at self-monitoring, so it is only good if private seals are to sell their products under strict government regulations. Then you can respond and monitor the private parts more effectively. And also, says the World Health Organization, the private people fit even better than the state, where they are defending their brands. Therefore, they will be very careful when selling this product. The World Health Organization also says that helping the sick is the most important thing to do, taking steps to do so, and the children. Thus, a fivefold contribution to public health is suggested. Why should the first two years focus on alcohol control? Yes, it is because when a public health fund was established, it was intended solely for prevention of alcohol abuse, alcohol consumption. However, the entire government's public health work had quickly been directed into the fund. The contents of alcohol prevention were further diluted. So we wanted to make sure that this did not happen again and stress that the first two years would be a minimum of emphasis. However, the amount is permanent. An increase of 5% is not just for two years but for a long time. It was decided to have two years so that the funds did not have too long - term limits on evolution as they have been. I think we're following the WHO guidelines, that private people sell alcohol under clear government supervision and with a clear framework. There's a clear line on how it's sold. It will be controlled by the government. The government will also direct the curse through the alcohol charge. I am much more concerned about the public health of the nation's increased financial resources. Increase in the level of riches is the key to consumer consumption. Who's going to fight the increase in power of money? Then more than a thousand people will die, and women who eat will increase their consumption of alcohol, and I don't know what has been held out of this chair. Are you gonna stop the power of buying? I'm asking. Let's try on the research we're witnessing on this bill, the access right here. I'm asking for one thing. I believe we've listened to that warning. We've withdrawn from the bill allowing it to be around other products and making conditions for that. All conditions are like that. Then I'd like to come to one thing at the end. Compare this with research, and think about the country. Don't just think about the capital area, but don't think that we're about to sell alcohol in the capital area. It's not that simple. It's always talking about the profits of the ATSVR. Rather, he will return to the Kingdom treasure afterward, for he is completely carried away from the tobacco trade. This is what I've been saying all the time, without being run over by the state's Alcohol and tobacco trade. She's never spoken against it. True, it has answered my answer so that the books are not separate, so it is not possible to give a precise answer. Of course, selling alcohol is far more effective than selling tobacco, and the average seeding is much higher on tobacco than on alcohol. Under a rose, the claim is that the liquor store is just standing or that it may be a bit of a loss. It seems that this large structure is there, but the tobacco moiety has no surface structure. I'm not going to put a word in this rather than hope for the perplexing discussions and people to talk about the bill as it is, not as they think it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Will, in his speech, will Árnason and hope that I will live up to his request for perfunctory conversation. At least I can tell him that I will discuss the subject of the bill. I've read it, and here are my glows out of it. There are some things that would be nice to have words with the senator, and I had the intention of doing so, but I was only moved. When I heard what I heard, I spit. A candidate claims to increase bioavailability to increase consumption. I wrote it by him here from the platform and could not write more quickly, but I could hear as much as he then said that he had always said so. That's when I want to get my attention straight. The senator's place where he does not pronounce it, where he keeps it in contrast, which is in the bill's form as the dog. A senator wants to talk. It says, by permission of the president: It has not been demonstrated that there is a definitive causal relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. How does this compare with a senator's claim that an increase in bioavailability and that he has always claimed it? Or, as the report shows, does he believe that this is a two - year period? I don't know yet, and I haven't yet been able to explain why everything is going to change over the two years, as we would discuss in the symposium earlier today, but if it were. A senator has not watched, but I can better penetrate it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u175	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions and I'm glad we're going to let this happen. I have claimed that an increased bioavailability would increase consumption if we dropped the drinking age, if we had a free access time, would have absolutely free how shops put their product and sold it, if we allowed the sale on the field and other items. If we do this completely free, the bioavailability would clearly be increased, if all of these factors were present. As discussed in the bill, however, there is an increased potential bioavailability if alcohol sales become more common. It's what the bill goes on, that there is a possibility that the sales service could increase, although nothing is sure of it, but it's very likely. That is exactly what the Camp of Vienna has been doing. That's exactly what the private people have been doing by applying for alcohol saving every day, that I think, in this country. Privates who sell alcohol daily through their liquor license have increased by about 1,000 percent. It hasn't increased the consumption permanently, as the bill says. We saw this when they let the beer. In many ways, these are similar circumstances. Then something was changed that was exciting, and then the consumption increased a little at first, but then she quickly reached the balance. This shows research on the use of the alcohol after the beer was passed. Could that possibly happen? We don't know. Therefore, it would be good to be prepared for this in the first two years. And I also came to it with the first two years that public health funds today are used in all public health for government funds, although it was originally thought of as a public health fund for the prevention of alcohol abuse. He was formed for that purpose. But we want to make sure that for the first two years at least the emphasis will be on the use of alcohol prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is thus said to increase bioavailability if 20 other causes fall by, if I understand why. A senator is right, if anything is done differently. Actually, there's a why. To say that an increase in bioavailability does not add to its own consumption. It's a little different. Hv. A senator will review the agreement between capital and national settlements. We must remember that this is also about alcohol in the country. I agree with him with that. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator more on the report. It refers to alcohol as being set aside by another product, behind the counter in a special space within the store. So says, with permission from the President. Now I have so many magazines here that I can't find this place exactly, but it says in the bill that you can give it away in small stores where it's not comfortable. [[The president calls.]] If he cares so much about the public health issues that apply to having alcohol and can't be seen in the capital area, why do they not have public health standards in small places with small shops in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u177	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with the effects when it comes to increasing bioavailability. I introduced it in my speech that the bioavailability factors, the increased availability, depending on the impact factor, differs. Prices have the most impact. If we were turning down alcohol costs considerably, the consumption would clearly increase. Similarly, if money gain increases, the consumption will increase. The increased level of propagation is an increased bioavailability. That's what I was saying. However, in terms of the bioavailability factors increasing in the bill, based on how the trend has been developing in the country over the past few years, these factors are not established. Regarding the country's settlement, and why does this not apply as a result, the local government is expected to value these factors. It doesn't always have to be bad, though the consumption is slightly higher if it's just general, if it's not so-called Dringinging, or drinking as it's called. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u178	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's speech. Although the public health issues are what I think are everything or the most important thing in this law, and to the greater extent my opposition to the bill, I would like to discuss here what he was talking about in his speech, i.e. Service to people in many parts of the country, and their access to alcohol. We're just about done with Kraddavika. Councilmen. Likely, all of us have traveled around and met a number of people. I'm a senator for a considerable spread-out district, the Northwestern district. There was a significant opposition to the bill where it appeared in the scattered settlements that turned, including ... asa public health agenda. People also asked how, for example, the merchant at Patrecks'possession, should be able to provide the same variety of products as Bronson or Kronan here in Reykjavík. The concern of people is also on top of the issue of public health. People asked if the merchant at Patrekfjörður had to go to the Cronus or Bonus and buy two of the cheapest species available there and then lay down three times the price on it. What's the right place for people in this area? Is it just to buy the pig-red bottle from the Bonus store three times the price of a small shop west?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u179	A respectable president. If I understand why. The chief of the rights is most concerned about public health matters about the bill, yet the greatest concern is that people don't have access to the product. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm trying to figure out how to answer that. But in these words, if the merchant at Patrekaut's store cannot have enough goods in his store, where there is not enough market on Patrek farm to maintain a wide variety of products, should I, who do not drink alcohol, taxpayer in this country, pay for the fact that the people on Patrekfður can have good products, while living in poor health care? It's just not going together to me. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u180	V.E.G. President. Clearly, it is. A senator benefits from getting out of the discussion. What I said to him earlier, if he had listened, I'm most concerned with public health. The rest plays a little bit in. Maybe I forgot that word. He speaks of poor health care. Then I'd just like to challenge him as a member of the council here at the high council, using extra money to raise money for health institutions in the country. Sadly, they have not been at the same level as here in the urban area, in charge of funding. Also, I would like to ask him how he feels about the words of a surgeon who has given this bill much warning. Does he take the warnings made by the surgeon or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u181	A respectable president. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss these factors. I'd also like to say that if we never make decisions here at the General Assembly, although not 100% of them, evolution would not be a big thing in the community. If no one is afraid to make such decisions. I would also like to point out regarding the country's settlement that it would be living at a network store, which is making much more use of these materials even now. But me and what. Exploiting Arnardóttir Lára Eagledottir, we agree that we need to use ourselves to make health services in the region sit at the same table as in the capital. I feel exactly the same way about it. Here, for example, I see an opportunity to free 5 billion people I really care about taking care of in the country, selling ATSVR and releasing the 5 billion bounds. The Ministry of finance may then have time to think about health care in the country, not about being the head of the ATVR staff. A surgeon - I was referring to his words when I asked people to express themselves on the bill as it is, not as they think it is. [[The president calls.]] That was also true of a surgeon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u182	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to have a word here. A senator who has twice sullied this matter as the first transporter and is now one of the third carriers. Few people will know the inside of this case better than what. paritaprevir Will Árnason. He discussed some of the scattered settlements and how the bill could touch them. I share their concerns with him in general and that more is needed to settle the country's conditions so that people can actually choose where they put themselves. I think it has value in itself. Of course, most of it takes note of the most basic necessary services, such as health care, education, or whatever it is. However, bioavailability of consumer products is reduced in many parts of the country. It's a food market compression, it's a low-level competition. Little shops in small towns are fighting on trays. I find it hard to see how this particular product, alcohol, would change if it was released into the same uncool complex and commercial foods. It is often referred to as the high bioavailability of MTVR by increasing the number of sale sites. The largest part of that growth is just in the scattered areas, in tiny rural communities where I doubt that the market law says that it would be practitioning shops. Counts 'em out. A senator saying that people in places such as Kopasker or Thorsve would have access to the same goods as people in other parts of the country at the same price today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman for this. I'm glad to hear how much we agree with him and how concerned he is about the same factors I am. Yes, I believe the people there had the same access, even better. Today, ÁTVR is offered to those who live at a certain distance from the next alcohol sale by the end of the world's world of alcohol through a network store. The Internet will produce this bill, so the inhabitants will live in it. Also, a small store of alcohol is set up, such as Kopasker, except at a certain distance from the nearest location. It is because of the distance the residents have obtained a liquor store. In places such as Kopasker, it is very difficult to run a normal day - to - day store. If the daily store got more money through the liquor store, so that there are no double box systems and twice as much workers, since the liquor store is inside the daily store, then the basis for general consumer products other than alcohol is likely to get stronger because the store is more concerned. I have recently heard news from my district that small shops are being shut down in spite of a number of tourists because they are not behind them. If they can sell legal consumer products that, under strict conditions, produce considerable resources, they will increase the likelihood of offering generally products outside alcohol. I think it's very useful to the country in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u184	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I got such a little tingling as if I were talking to Pirata when the word "net shop" was heard all the time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Based on the way the senator speaks, he is merely optimistic, but I have a country that has not been positive in recent years. I wouldn't think it would necessarily add the access to people's ability to get their product sent through the mail. The Senator mentioned earlier that the State is not good at keeping an eye on itself. It would be better to have a private driver on business and to have a strong surveillance of them. Here we are again to the beer cop. First liveer to Totto Björn Einarsson mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator specifically about that point, if it was appreciated how much it would have to do with the monitoring program, sometimes called to respond to the changing environment of alcohol sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u185	A respectable president. So I start with the last question, I don't think that would have to be a big deal, since there's already a shopping operation, health care monitoring and other things, when you apply for a permit for shopping, there's a check, unless it's a medical check there, you'll get extra funds that you need to get published. We may even demand that the permit be paid more often in order to do so. But there is certainly an extra license, except for the permission we already have for business. Besides, the public and the rest of them are going to be doing a lot more than they do with Vienna because they only trust Vienna as a state company, so I think the general surveillance we get pro bono. But it's just the mail service and the Internet store. I think a network store, not just a liquor network store, but in general, is just something that can save mail services and expand the service in the country and increase mail transport, whether it's through the mail or by private.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u186	A respectable president. ▪ They say I know how to choose them, but I don't have the sense to make sense. This was a popular song composed by my male father, Guðjónsson, who wrote this in 1981, with the Furbibs that acted against in 1981 and was written on the head of a standard beer bean in the country. He still insists that this song was a major reason why the Prohibition was finished, and I was confident that he would. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon may confirm that when he first heard the song, he almost changed his mind. And here we are again to discuss the beer and the mind we need to earn for those we choose. Throughout the years of political education and involvement in politics, this sentence has come to my mind from time to time, in which it actually describes the fundamental conflict between the democratic interests of the entire body and the natural rights of the human rights. Forgive me if I sound too philosophical, but it is a moral premise of our day that all men and women are born with equal rights and that no one is more natural. At first glance, this includes the fact that no one has the moral right to exercise another authority. On the other hand, we have an unwritten community contract on the top of this which has a legitimate monopoly on the use of power for a particular purpose, i.e. that by living and participating in a set community, we participate in the systems and rules that this community pursues on common issues as long as they are democratic and legitimate. In this context, we set up rules for common markets, land control and law enforcement, welfare systems, road systems and other infrastructures, and we also have a moral obligation to help people in need, ensure any minimal progress, equal opportunity, etc. The democratic requirement, often ignored at the council, then, is that all of us have the moral right to mold these rules, whether they are elections or not. I know it doesn't sound like there's a lot to do with free selling alcohol, but the question we have to ask in this context is: Is it part of this legitimate government role to make sense to people, i.e. to use his power not only to help people but also to enforce the rules concerning our common systems but also to control their own lives, bodies, and consumption? I know that many people are now thinking that the government does not forbid people to drink alcohol. That is true, but we're forbidding people to sell alcohol and to buy alcohol from others other than the State in times and places than the government chooses to sell it. It may not be a very serious violation of freedom in itself, but it is abnormal that the State is standing in a retail store. This involves a host of personal problems, perhaps including the fact that the State is subsidizing alcohol with a choice, opening places, and prices that others do not demand. I wondered, " Is this alcohol subsidence something that opposers of this bill feel is normal? ' As a result, I disagree with those who oppose the bill on the grounds that it could potentially impair access, selection, or raise the value of alcohol. It could happen, but if it is, I want it to depend on demand and competition, not on the fact that the state is subsidizing alcohol that is not demand. I also disagree with those who believe that the trade of retail products is generally better in the hands of the state than with the government's private people for the lack of money in Iceland. True, there is no serious problem in Iceland, but the solution is to promote competition and observation, not monopoly. It's, for example. The reason that few at a grocery store has not yet moved us to establish a state search for food, except in case of milk, and I really hope that such isolation will not be arranged. The most common view of being used against the case, and I also have the deepest sympathy, is the public health. They are strong, and they are understandable. Alcohol truly is a drug that is harmful to people, at least to them. To an excessive degree, and alcoholism is a disease that has ruined the lives of many. It's a social and personal problem that I don't make in a way of beinglittle. The question is, Do we want to draw close to the problem by informing people and assisting those who are in power or by trying to control people's consumption by forbidding non - state to sell them? I think it's the wrong way. I'd rather, as suggested in this bill, support much more with those who get into trouble with alcohol, and inform people, especially young people, much better with the nature and consequences of it through strong prevention. That's why we propose in the bill that the percentage of alcohol charges that flow to the prevention and treatment of fivefold are raised by hundreds of millions, I understand. There we come back to what is moral right to use government. Emphasis on power is a role that we as senators should not take for granted. That requires justification, like the ones I came in earlier. The justification that if we do not use this power to control the consumption of individuals, they may choose to consume substances that harm themselves or that themselves are unacceptable to me. The Kingdom has the right to inform and assist people in their personal life, but we do not have the right to control their personal life with authority. That's the point for me. A respectable president. Indeed, the State's presentation of alcohol is far from the most serious crime ever committed or committed by the Icelandic government today. It is not my primary priority or that of other transporters, as is the case with most members of the council that are discussed at the council these days. I paid, for example. a vote earlier today that the council would discuss the bill on a dresser's board before this case, but many of the most loud protesters voted against it, did not want us to discuss matters that concern 70% of the paymen's talks before taking this case. I know, for example. No better than that. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir has voted against it but has spent most of the day talking about his drinking bill. Let us consider that priorities. On the other hand, despite the importance of other issues, Piranar and I take a stand on matters based on our convictions and core policy. Since the beginning, piranha has been a liberal class of strong civil rights and self - determination rights for individuals. In view of this basic policy, I am truly committed to turning away from the old - fashioned prerogativeism of alcohol abuse. We do not have a moral right to use our power to manipulate people's privacy. We are to inform and help, not tread on our moral sense, and choose to consume others through our position as members of Congress. We're supposed to help people, not make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u187	A respectable president. I can't be any smaller than what. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, and he chooses to bring here one grain, by permission of the President. It's based on the mismanagement of Haraldur the son of Hjálmarsson. You know, booze is the best food. don't let the taste of good betray. ♪ Like a dog, I'm falling flat ♪ for every day. Last week, during what has been called the ultimatum, I met high school officials in the North East. Most, or all, mentioned this bill in the first place and expressed a voice against it. They felt that this would add to the drinking of young people, with bad results. I suppose the presidents of another high school in this country agree. So I ask why. A senator how he plans to calm the hearts of these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and my good friend, the Einar son of Brynjólfsson, for the inquiry. I understand fully that high school leaders and other people who have employment and experience in thinking about what is best for human health, are less consumed by youths and by people in general. I want them to do it. I want them to keep on doing that. But I don't think it's our job as members of Congress and the government to use our authority to promote it. I prefer high school to help your students with information and prevention to make the right decisions for themselves. I remind you that according to the bill, the age limit remains 20 years and since the death of the ban, as I mentioned earlier, in Iceland alcohol consumption has increased very significantly at the same time as juvenile drinking has been very much combined. Of course, I feel sorry for these views, but I don't think it's our job to control people's consumption. It would continue to be illegal for people under 20 years of age to buy alcohol. I don't think it's normal policy to ban one of the possible causes that something else that is already forbidden might be done rather. Understand? To forbid everyone to buy alcohol from other people than the State because young people, who may not be able to buy alcoholic beverages, can buy alcohol - the experience of Icelanders is not that an increase in access to alcohol has a significant effect on teenage drinking. But because of this concern, we contribute additional contributions to the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u189	A respectable president. Been a high school teacher for the last 18 years, I can assure my partner and friend. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, of course, that they are quite the work that seniors are able to deal with. This may not be improved. But it is a pleasant coincidence. A senator who was standing in a chair earlier should be a motivationist for a special discussion of youth people scheduled for tomorrow if I have understood it correctly. I'm curious to know if the senator intends to discuss the alcohol and drug abuse of young people in their discussions and in what ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u190	A respectable president. Yes, I am fully aware that high school teachers have been very good students, and they will continue to do so. One of these projects has certainly been to promote the prevention and responsible behavior of students. Now I don't have that experience. paritaprevir Since Einar Brynjólfsson has, I have experience with being a high school student, and as a result, I realize that high school students who want to drink alcohol get into it very easily, whether it's sold in the state or in Bonos. The increasing bioavailability at the same time that the consumption has been combined I feel that this is not the most important issue. Of course, when it comes to youth matters, it is important to promote the prevention of alcohol and drug abuse. But I don't see how it can be the issue of youth that adults are forbidden to drink alcohol. But, yes, I look forward to discussing youth matters tomorrow. There we will specifically talk about the community involvement of young people and their support of work and self - determination, which, of course, is of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u191	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. He talked only about an increase in the percentage of alcohol costs that flow into a public health fund to protect. I'd like to ask him about it and the two-year criteria set on the bill. Does he think that's enough? Now, among other things, we have seen an enormous increase in numbers, e.g. When driving drunk That's what we'll see on the news. For example, in December much news was being broadcast because of the huge numbers of those who were driven by drunk driving. Similar figures have not been seen since 2007 or 2008. That's a huge increase from the past few years. It was also noted in the news that one of the most important measures that could be taken in order to resist it was to make a significant contribution to a reserve fund. So, I ask, because of the big increase that has become: Will these two years work? Why is it necessary to be tied to the bill that we raise funds in this fund? I'd rather you were. A senator would accept a bill, even though this bill, which included an increase, a bill that stood alone regardless of whether this bill is going to be legal or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. With regard to the two-year goal, it's a minimum criterion. There is no basis, therefore, for the percentage to remain new in the same series after two years. I'd be supportive of that. I have to say, I am completely open to myself that there would be an extended period in the bill. There's no basic thing to me, these two or three years or something like that. I understand it's just thought of it as a particular test period. I'd be rooting for it. The senator on this increase regardless of the bill under consideration. I had heard about that bill, and I liked it. And, of course, this is thought of as a form of counterargument. As I've said before, I don't doubt that drinking alcohol in general will increase in Iceland. I have certain doubts that alcoholism will increase or excessive consumption, but I feel that it is worth the effort, especially when we discuss a controversial change, to meet these very normal and understandable concerns by increasing the pressure. As I say, I'd still be there anyway. So I don't see any resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u193	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. Senator. Hv. A senator is told that we should not be conscious of people and that we should not limit them to certain things, such as the one to which certain things are available, e.g. these are, but the work of our senators is a great deal of consultation with professionals who have knowledge. It's a formal treatment. Material development takes place in committees where we can find information about things we may not previously know and can shape our attitude and thus influence our actions of order. Of course, that has a certain effect, and we too need to listen to the views that affect the law. But I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council to see if he has considered reviews of the case since the previous councils have agreed, and how they are divided into two groups in which health professionals and social sciences warn against the approval of this case, while business partners and services are very much in favor. Has he wondered what selected different comments in these two different groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u194	A respectable president. Yes, I've studied these reviews and their research. I'm not surprised that a surgeon or a health professional is opposed to this bill and that it will increase alcohol consumption and even cause negative consequences. I think it's their job, and I trust their assessment of the biological effects of alcohol and all related to it, but it's our politicians to decide how the council and the government should react to it. It depends on our values for the role that governments play and the right we have in this regard. I'd like to continue to support prophylaxis and treatments like an AU that I'm doing. But I don't want us as senators using the power we have, the force of force, to manipulate the way people control their consumption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u195	Madam President. I'm going to put out a little something for a second. A senator's regard of moral rights is to use the authority of the State. Increasing the bioavailability of alcohol contributes to the increased consumption of alcohol by a health professional in the health system. This means increased stress on the health - care system and the health care professionals, which then means increased financial expenses for the seminary. In addition, the operators of the bill want to add the expenses of the state funds to a special reserve. Doesn't that contradict you when it comes to what you're doing? A senator speaks of what is morally right to use the government to recommend it anyway by accepting a bill that actually means extra stress on the health system and as well as by forcing the state to accept the financial burdens needed to meet this, in effect, under the view that the State is not qualified to sell alcohol, but it should still take on all the costs that come from health problems that increase access to alcohol? I just wanted to explain and ask you why. A senator whether this is not a complete paradox and contradiction in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u196	A respectable president. Amazingly, I don't feel completely paradoxed and contradictory. First, it is not a requirement for the increase in the financial expenditures of alcohol, but to increase the proportion of alcohol for treatment and public health. Second, the other philosophical discussion is about the health - care costs that I consider worthy of discussion. I am a follower of public health, as I did earlier on the grounds that it is our moral obligation to help people who need help, are sick, or suffer from accidents, etc. But I don't think the moral obligation would depend on the fact that we have the right to control people and how they behave and if they were to harm themselves, just as if a friend of mine was in a car accident, I would spend time and energy coming to his aid, but that would not give me the right to forbid him to drive a car. This does not depend on our having a public health system, so we have acquired all those who may need that service. Or is this evidence of being a member of the medical system? Is that the result, in any case, of course. A senator, being a member of a public welfare system where you are able to control people's personal life?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u197	Madam President. I just think that a fairly significant demand that the State take on increased financial commitments but under the pretext that the state is not trustworthy in selling alcohol. This in itself is the contradiction I was talking about earlier. And since we're only talking about the factor at the State's expense, it's not clear exactly what the government's cost is at the bill. Here we are talking about surveillance, and those selling alcohol at stores should be 18 years of age or older. It is not clear who is going to be on that watch and how much it will cost, so there is yet another expense team and another burden to be placed on the state, using proben, as the senator did not trust to sell alcohol but surely should accept all the financial commitments that result from the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u198	A respectable president. This may reveal a fundamental difference between us. A senator about how we view the role of the State. I don't view it as a sign that the state sells alcohol and the state provides health care. I think it's two very different things. I feel that the justification for the state's providing everything else and so much better from health care. We need to examine each aspect of our lives. This is not to increase the health costs, but it might. A wide variety of rights to freedom can increase the health costs. Eating sugar, driving cars, leaving the house. Allowing people to do these things can increase the health costs. Freedom sometimes brings at times certain cost of sacrifice. I don't think we have the right to limit people's freedom on that basis, but I believe we still have an obligation to run public health systems. About 18 years of age, they are practiced in almost all European countries, and this is customary in Iceland regarding tobacco. There may be one person in the area over 18 years of age, one box of alcohol, and this should not be a problem. People under 18 years of age should be able to continue working at grocery stores despite this, just as with tobacco.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson's big mouth for his speech. I'm especially glad he quotes one of the two best bands in Iceland. Especially do we welcome those who lived in Kopavogur during the later years. [[Up front.]] As far as the bill's content is concerned - am I not opposed?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u200	No, the senator has been given the word in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u201	Well, I beg your pardon. I'd asked for an answer. I thought I was back, but I already changed my beat. But I'd already asked for -
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u202	He can't answer me?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u203	M? I'm looking for information as the President has three of them. Senators have requested an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u204	It was announced, Mr. President, that there were four at the beginning of the opposition in the past. [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u205	The senator's speech has begun. Early combat hours were two minutes in the first round and one minute in the second, therefore it is obvious that the president...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u206	It's okay. I thought I was opposed. I'm just going to get started on a new, respectable president, who's just as respectful of it. Thank you so much for this. Like I say, I apologize for this. I jumped up here to get an answer. But it's nice to be in a speech. There's enough to take care of this bill. I suppose I don't have to spend so many words in the public health business, in the envelopes, on the fact that, in fact, I don't. It was especially interesting to hear the sounds of the bill. A senator who spoke before me, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, admits clearly that this will increase the consumption rate. As I understood him, the freedom to buy money from the private car so that the consequences could be cremated. Sufficient number of senators have discussed this aspect of the matter. In the past, it was called after we covered this bill and I'm going to let myself do it, cover it as a bill. I have to say, as it is, I don't really feel like there's a stone on a rock in it. It's kind of a place that runs at different angles. This may crystallize to some extent in the proselytization of the dog. paritaprevir Viktor's son Orri Valgarðsson, who was speaking of the freedom and use of the government that he could not support and that it was not a government's job to make sense to people. Yet we do. We force people to pay in a pension fund so that they can support themselves decently in their old age, which they sadly fail to do. We'll set speed limits. Not only that you don't hurt others but you hurt yourself too. We're forcing those who have cars to buy insurance. We may not always be at work, but we do so in a number of ways, influence people's decisions, make sense of people's feelings. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson put it. There would be more weight in this high - speed freedom trade not to influence people's decisions if they did. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson would not be providing a bill full of rules in which we influence people's decisions. Why can only 20 buy alcohol if there is so much freedom? If it's the love of freedom that encourages us in this, why can't I buy a beer? 2 a.m.? Why can't I breathe my liquor? [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah. A senator must be consistent with himself; he cannot see a single bill here that makes a significant detail of the risk of nebulisation and that it must be handled particularly hard, but then proclaims a second bill in which to dissipate the nebulisation and pretend in some way that it is not in the form of the report as well as it should be. A senator, though, is here. Why can't I buy alcohol in an ice cream truck or a hot dog? Why is the shortage of hot dogs of Icelanders and tourists not allowed to have beer with their hot dog? Why is alcohol especially important, if it is like other consumer products? Hv. paritaprevir Yet Viktor Orri Valgarðsson gets a stick for saying it isn't. Hv. A senator said it was a drug. In the report with the bill as good as any. But a senator, along with others, said by permission of the president: This view applies to alcohol and other consumers and necessities. For those who present the bill, alcohol is not just a consumer product but a warning. There's an angle where people talk about freedom when they limit freedom, because it's a consumer product, when they put a bill full of goods because it's not ordinary consumer products. Is it too much to ask that people be only tiny in accordance with themselves at the High Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u207	I'll be back later.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u208	My dear senator, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, there are more members of the General Assembly than you and even though I was only talking about you here, you don't have to answer me every time I'm here. Well, there's more transporters here, I guess. I had planned to share my talk with others about the many questions that arose when I read this bill. I got caught a little bit in the freedom reasonings that happened earlier, and I've heard of it before. They are misleading the discussion in a way that is not really acceptable. They're acting like it's about freedom, the elevated thought. Who Can Oppose Freedom? Instead, we should go down to the ground and discuss in detail the impact of this bill's approval. I don't know. I'm not an expert on these matters. I resolved before attending the high Council that in matters I would not be expert on, it is the overwhelming majority of all cases, if not all, I would listen to professionals. I didn't always have to follow what it said, but I would listen to professional people, and if there were a parallel in the conversation of all professionals on certain matters, maybe I should just take my stand on it, not just take it aside, like here and pretend it's just not a problem. Hv. A messenger of Tott Björn Einarsson denied the science in a speech earlier today. It is so far spent in the media to eliminate the government's exclusive drug on alcohol at the same time. Transporter Totna Björn Einarsson is denying science. That's not acceptable. It's more important than tears that we have to discuss this on that basis, that people not only stand and fall by what they say on this bill. There they speak more often than not against themselves. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who arrived in a pool earlier, spoke of the need to be consistent between the region and the capital area in these matters. But that does not apply to the public health issues. The bill says that alcohol does not have to be restricted from other products if it is inappropriate, for example. The only local store that has activity in small and inaccessible space and no other store in the same area with alcohol is available for distribution. For those living under these conditions, public health standards do not apply to the transporters of this bill. It is noteworthy that the explanation should not have been properly explained--even though I must be informed, to be completely reasonable in my presentation, to the why. Tox Björn Einarsson had begun to discuss this with me in the side hall - during this two-year magical period, where everything is to change for the better but is to become worse with the approved bill, i.e. increase in alcohol consumption. You can't really talk in a pit like some whiskers. Congress officials have made, but not the person who was present before me, and pretend that this will just have no effect, that increasing access will not affect increased consumption, a bill where the report specifically says that if it is approved, alcohol consumption will be increased. All those standing on this bill will tell them with their eyes that alcohol consumption will increase. However, it will be healed in two years because we are going to place more money in a reserve. I don't know what magical formulas have been able to change the alcohol behavior of some generation in two years. Then people, instead of trying to talk straight and say, "I want a camp burning, I think it's just - and it's cool. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson is supposed to talk something like that. I just think it's fair to buy booze in shops, dot--to answer in advance to all critical voices. My favorite sentence from the report is that in less than a few wine - packaging areas, e.g. in many parts of the country, the effect on the competition at the grocery store, which is likely to have the volume to open the liquor store - these are the effects. [[Up front.]] Better conditions of the store owner, with the permission of the president, might even affect the disappearance of those who accept a carless life - style can approach more consumers without having to pursue a long - distance retail site. One has been writing a report and thinking, " Which group do I need to convince? ' Yes, environmentalists who favor a carless life - style. I'm gonna get them with this. It's kind of funny to think that this bill is actually put out here, because it's been found to be two years old. The members of the Independence Party who agree with the subject of the bill feel that they cannot even support it. Why should we always be discussing these matters, the concentration of booze in the camp? I have no doubt that many people would really like to be able to buy a drink from the merchant on the corner. I do not personally buy alcohol, so this bill touches me very little. But why are we going all the way here? You can advertise it, wear it in your stores anywhere, and if it's not convenient to limit it, it's not a problem, they'll get a release from it. That's the least of it. Will there be any real benefits? I wonder if you could be healed of this sale. What this bill does is to make sure that it is not new to a government fund, in advance, that it is not paid to pay for what really sells the product, but that it can be punctured in at least a part of its pocket. It is an intolerable requirement that some of the supporters of this matter have been heard in some way to say that it is in some way a task for those who are not supporters to prove that the bill does not have some specific influence. Senators who put in such bill must be able to stand in a pit and convince the whole nation that the bill will not have bad consequences. They have to be able to stand here, claiming that either the bill does not have the consequences of drinking alcohol, drinking teenage drinks, and what it is, or just don't care, it's more important that the state isn't in a little business because it's that way somewhere in the world, or that it's more comfortable to grab the red wine bottle with its steak. It is not for us who have merely expressed doubts about this bill to prove the bad consequences of it. There should be any senator, especially new members, who come in here, even with declarations to change politics, a debate to present a bill that made clear to all social impact will be that law, not waiting for others to bring it. Thank you, and I ask again for my pardon, a respectable president, of the misunderstanding at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Proppér for giving me an opportunity to explain that I was describing why I am following the proposed bill. That, in my opinion, clearly goes to give people more freedom over their own consumption. I think that's normal, and I don't think public health is valid enough because greeting individuals is their concern. I'm good with the law of home brewing. I'm ready to discuss all the other things he mentioned, insurance, speed restrictions and the like, but most of them will have far more common rules about common systems that we have like the road system, what we do in the road system that is our common system. It's different in my opinion than knowing people about their personal lives. Interestingly, though, at the end of his talk, he asked: "Why is it going all the way here? Yet, he was saying that I was inconsistencies with myself because I wasn't going all the way because there are limitations about special space, about time, about ice cars. Why can't you have a beer with the hot dog? I'd like people to have beer with the hot dog. Of course, this is not going entirely. It's a compromise. Still, I'm following this because it's a step in the right direction. I can feel that certain restrictions are reasonable, but it is entirely a matter of setting rules about business on the market rather than prohibiting them. Finally, I'd like to ask, because he said it was our responsibility to prove that this does not have a bad effect: Is that, in any case, that? A senator, that the State should only allow people to do what has been proved to be a negative influence? So we're not supposed to drink alcohol over our heads? It has not been proven that drinking alcohol is not harmful. I think it's a very strange attitude that seems to be behind this requirement. A senator wondered what his point is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u210	A respectable president. I'm gonna start wearing a card here. Thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson for his response and thank him for showing me that I used the wrong wording when I said that the bill was going all the way. He's absolutely right, he doesn't. However, it goes far beyond the many basics that have been observed in a similar way here at the General Hall in the past. That's what I was referring to. Freedom of personal consumption, says w. Senator. I don't think it's possible to have a wording about these matters when people only use those terms. A 19 - year - old is not free to eat his own food. Does a senator support the removal of the age limit for alcohol and tobacco? So everyone has the freedom to eat their own? Or is he also in his heart with boundaries that he wants to set free over his own consumption? That's what it's all about in the end. When it comes to handling alcohol, we all have some boundaries. Hv. A senator has one limit, I have other boundaries, but don't let the other view be the thought of freedom, the sacred freedom, but the rest is just custody. As for proving harmful effects: Yes, if the Senate bill makes room for the drug trade, I think it's the least that Congress officials with self - respect can do to evaluate the damage to that bill. Besides, where's the cost point with this bill? Is it not something that senators who want to practice professionalally should work hard to put forth such a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u211	A respectable president. As I thoroughly explained earlier, I do not view the cost factor as the potential core issue for this discussion. I feel that we should have the health system, even though people can sometimes decide to be harmed, and I'm ready to make a little more money for it, whether it might be more or not. So you just want to prove that a case is not harmful when it is this case? If there were any other issues, would we not have to prove that they did not have harmful effects? It's a bit of a weird harmony... [[Up front.]] No? Okay. But I was asking you what you did to me, and you just make her on this, not in general. [[President (UKB): The President would like to remind members of the Parliament to address other members of Congress...]] - Yeah. A good reminder. Thank you. And about drugs: Yes, I said, it's drugs, but it's also consumer food. I believe that there is absolutely consistentity in the fact that people can use alcohol as consumers with food, etc. and as a drug. With regard to the age -- that is natural, so when I talk about self - determination, I'm talking about individuals' self - esteem, 18 years old. I'd think it would be very well-investigated, yes, to reduce the age range to 18 years. So I think I'm consistent with myself in it. But I think it's a little cheap, I have to say, of course. A senator hangs himself on certain arguments in a paper with the bill, for we have, of course, different reasons to share, or to oppose, certain elements. I'm a follower of this proposal. That doesn't mean that I would use the exact same argument as the other carriers of this proposal for it. You say there are some boundaries on my point. Of course. There's some boundaries on everything. If I believed that the country would be devastated by this bill, I'd think twice about it. But I don't think there's strong evidence that people can't use legal consumers and drugs that they might decide to get hurt with them. It's because of this most fundamental prince; all the prince's have some limits, but I think these limitations clearly are too narrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u212	A respectable president. I don't know if I'm mistaken. Senator, if that's the case, I'm sorry. He concluded by saying that there is no evidence that people must not use legal consumers and drugs. No one's discussing the prohibition on alcohol. In fact, movers have tried to hurt out a bill about the prohibition on alcohol. It is not to discuss whether alcohol can be taken, whether it can be purchased anywhere. I don't know if a senator is getting the wrong idea, or I, I just don't quite figure it out. This is not a matter of any kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u213	Found out earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u214	- Yeah, well, as I say, I suppose I'm the one who's getting the wrong idea. And as for the report: Did anyone here correct me, who has more Congress experience if it's wrong but isn't an explanation? Doesn't have any language, and even more weight, because more often than not, the work is quite accurate. It tells us exactly how one bill, perhaps a single sentence, should be used. I think it's a little cheap to choose from; to agree with this, to disagree with the other, but, well, this will get away. I wouldn't work that way, but every senator has to weigh it and evaluate it to himself if he supports the case that in some case could be filled with some of the requirements they are against. And the cost assessment with a bill is not about whether we're going to run a health system or not. It is about the fact that members of the Parliament recognize the cost of the approved bill. Is he someone? How much is he? If they want to be especially responsible, they should bring it against them where to earn the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u215	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn... Proppér, you've become completely confused before the speech. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He talks about this two - year - old magic period, puts it this most pleasant word, which is a description of the short time this bill allows for an increase in the percentage of alcohol costs that should go into public health reserves. I think it's a very good name for this period, especially because we saw in a news transfer just before Christmas that drunk driving has increased a lot. It appeared along with the press that they were in need of money into public health funds to respond and take precautions to work on these matters. Of course, it is very good that this amount is raised five times. But doesn't he agree with me, and you can hear it, of course, on his speech, that this is way too short? Don't we just have to bring a special procedure on the matter, on the increase of this price, which is totally independent of the bill? I would like to know if he is not sincerely agreeing with me that this is extremely important, since, in fact, all the transporters have discussed the availability of alcohol as a result. Then you're afraid to see big numbers, if this magic season is going to be no magic season at all, because this is probably too short a time to get something done about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u216	A respectable president. I especially enjoy the many of my name. I should have done what I'd rather come to my son, change his name, and name either Jochum Proppé or Preben Proppé as I had wondered about in my youth, end up getting names that are more musical than one of those two. Maybe I'll ask for a vote in the audience. Preben Proppé or Jochum Proppé? Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for the counter-sponsored. I completely agree with that as it is. A senator says. What I find most reprehensible of such factors in this is that here, this period of increased consumption, is totally dull. Even so, for some reason, it is acknowledged that the presence of messengers will last only two years. This is quite serious to me, for this may be what the debate has been all about, acting as if it happened in those two years, in which everything is to be recovered and so cannot refer to any research, no predictions, no precedents. No one knows if it's two years or twenty years or two months, or if it's never gonna work out. It's just like whisk. Not relevant to transporters. I have to admit, I think a tiny hole in the matter of putting so much emphasis on prevention as many people do. Transporters have arrived here today. I haven't seen many of them, e.g. spoke extensively for the increased prophylaxis or increased donations to the SOUTH for December's budget, to name something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u217	V.E.G. President. That was an interesting discussion of the title in the beginning of a reply. A senator, but not a word more. I would like to come to the point of the talk and agree with it as a matter of course. A senator said. It is very important to determine the social impact of this bill, e.g. the health system, the increased support for children and children's families and other related factors. In this context, I would like to ask you why. A senator whether he has considered reviews from previous members of the council when asked and if he has noticed it and agrees with me that these statements are divided into two groups depending on whether these are professionals in health or social science, or if they are stakeholders, trades, and services. Does he agree with me that the reviews are divided into two groups depending on who the parties are? When you look at the review of the reviews, you notice that the health and sociology professionals are alert to the agreed bill while the other group recommends it. I've been wondering, though you can see that, what interests are being cared for by the contributions of this case. It would be interesting to know if there is a problem. A senator has taken a look at the factors and has developed a view of the different groups in question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u218	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I've read through reviews of previous bills. In fact, I did that during my earlier years. This is one of the things I feel I have read too much, the reviews of alcohol breakers. But it is certain that people will firmly believe something and feel that it is extremely important that they regularly come forth with their bills. That's where I completely agree with what's going on. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter that it's divided into two pieces. It is difficult, if possible, to find a report from a positive person. I don't remember encountering such a rumor. As I came to my talk, I feel that in matters such as this is most irresponsible not to listen to professional people. What are the interests? I came in on them. It is not as if someone starts to offer products for sale without making any money. That would be the first time in the history of capitalistism, if store owners were not going to make money on sale. This bill may have found some kind of sideworld or side dimension to capitalistism, but I'm not going to rely on it. As for the cost analysis, I feel, and I'm just gonna be completely sincere in the last 20 seconds I have here... not even at the bar. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm going to a clown with you. I feel like the carriers of this bill are trying to reverse the load of evidence. Here's a bill, it's like this, and then it's an allegory, from environmental reasoning to I don't know what, and then you say, "Do you know that this is going to have bad consequences?" It's your job to prove it. I really find this to be a very reprehensible practice. [[The president calls.]] It is those who want to change to argue that the change will not turn out for evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u219	Madam President. Today, we have not been able to figure out how far we should deal with the professional. One is the class that we all agree to, and that is, meteorologists. At present, a storm warning has been issued and there will be no travel weather between parts of the country tomorrow. I'd like to ask the president if she has made a decision regarding tomorrow's meeting, which includes the announcement. special debate about youth matters and the probable other interesting parts of the program that would be a good idea to have, which I fear would not be if the members of the council living in the South or up in Skarga would hold back from driving to Reykjavík, let alone those who come further home tonight to avoid being in the city's room over the weekend. I'd like to know if the President has taken a look at these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u220	The President intends to be on the council plan and there will be a conference meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u221	Madam President. I have to agree with those words, too. Senator. Although a person may feel bad about his secular work, there is an official who is warning people literally against being on the road. It's spoken of as being between the clocks. The two-and-five-walk weather over the Smokey Way, there's no move tomorrow. I ask myself what case is so urgent that tomorrow there must be a meeting, except for a camp burning. This special discussion can take place next week, it is not an emergency project. Is there something other than this bill so urgent that it is not to be taken into account the circumstances that are imminent? It's not like it's some sort of fun thing, it's not that people don't get to their house or get to work. It is emphasized that people don't travel by road tomorrow, except that they can't fly, that they don't drive nearby for work. I'd like the president to reconsider his decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u222	President. I have to describe a disappointment with a president in this inquiry, because this is the case with the fact that it's not just a warning from Iceland's Weather Room. Rather, the police have advised people not to drive between parts of the southwestern corner. I expect the President to want the members of Congress to be present for a discussion, that is, of course, what we expect this seminar to be about. I must be very disappointed that the president is not going to consider these circumstances. As we have seen, there is no room for a subject for tomorrow's meeting program to be called. I know that the president of his former assignment at the council had a special interest in the matter under which this is the case, but I hope, of course, that it does not affect the president's position on the subject of the above comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u223	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Congress officials have brought this to the attention, because we who drive to and from work on difficult weather roads, if you can say so, Kjalarnes or Smokey Way, that it is no joke to drive when caution warnings have been issued by police or meteorologists. I just want to take this opportunity to thank them. Senators who have put it this way, because I'd like to be here tomorrow and, of course, will try to do everything in my power to get to work tomorrow to take part in this discussion and certainly hope that the weather forecast will not work. But thank you, dear boy. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u224	Madam President. I am grateful that the discussion on bill is still well-interrupted on changing the law on liquor and tobacco trade. Here we again speak to members of the Independence Party and their associates about changing the law of the store with alcohol and tobacco. Because the tribunal chairman of the Independence Party went to the Assembly Hall yesterday and was shocked by the objective of my section of Congress, he hopefully sees what we all experience, which is that we are here and are witnessing the loss of the members of the Independence Party. It is so surprising that every time a member of the Independence Party of the younger generation is passed through the fire baptism of delivering a bill for sale of wine in a camp, the experience is that they are covering up some scandalous matter of the party, as they were when they were before. paritaprevir Sigurður Kári Kristjánsson recommended his bill for a camp on October 16, 2008, when the whole economy had collapsed at the party, and perhaps some others, a few days earlier. It was so when the last terms were virtually uniform, which was filled with the scandals of the Independence Party. Now it is impossible to wonder that to cover the perfect issue of a new government, who promised all beautiful elections and in the first few days of their actions immediately for the building of the health, education, and transportation system, we are instead discussing this controversial issue, increasing access to alcohol, and the free sale of it in private sales. The secretary of the Independence Party, what? paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, says this is not the priority of the Independence Party, but of members of Congress. The fact is, though, that this is indeed the priority of the Independence Party. Sadly, members of the Independence Party are certainly not at odds with that in the community, on this eternal quality of the Independence Party. In this regard, new polls show that 60% of the population is opposed to increasing access to alcohol. Thus, it is possible to wonder whether it is appropriate for a government party with such a limited political body to address such a controversial matter. Likely, this is to spend time discussing it rather than discussing matters from the government. But let us consider the content of the bill, which is about increasing access to alcohol and the fact that this is a matter of yielding to pressure from store owners at the expense of public health under the premise that the bill revolves around the individual's choice of choice and freedom of choice. This bill is not about freedom of choice. This bill is about the interests of the store, not the interests of young people and the general public, or public health issues. As evidence of this, Director Haga Haga Hf. says in his address on the company report at the end of the year, with permission of the president: The preparation of the import and sale of alcohol was organized. A bill for sales of alcohol at a day-to-day store. [...] A bill on selling alcohol in the daily stores has not yet been legal, but it is the religion of society's leaders that it is now not a question of whether, but when that bill will be approved at the General Assembly. To figure out the scope of Haga's small product store in Iceland, Hagar Hf. with 60% of the total food shops in Iceland by the end of 2015. In addition to this, it can be noted that when a comparable bill was proposed on the part of the bill. A member of the Independence Party, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, was the majority of the narratives on that bill negative but the only positive narratives about the bill came from the Association of Professional Life, the Association of Business and Service, the Association of Buyers and Realtyors at Iceland's Eye Road and Business Council. Four reviews of 49 were positive, all the civil health and well - being interests of children and families opposed the bill. The only organization that remained free to sell alcohol is the organization. After all, it is the freedom and freedom of the individual to choose. Let's just call this bill what it is: it's a bill for store owners' interest at the expense of all public interests. This is a direct interest guard for store owners in the country, not for the national interests of the public, which I have, in effect, had to confess to me that I thought we senators were elected. The bill of changing the law of a store with alcohol is then designed to serve the interests of the store and their grounds and to explain the weight and weight of the Independence Party on its transport in the council. The point of freedom of choice is put at ease, that by handing over large shops at the grocery markets this is a significant risk of the selectance and supporters of the bill being limited to the choice of alcohol and thus restricting the individual's freedom to select more types of alcohol. It's the bill's transporter, huh? paritaprevir Bots Björn Einarsson, talk about alcohol like any other consumer when all research truly shows that alcohol is not like any other consumer. Everyone realizes that Iceland's access to alcohol has been pretty good and paid so far, i.e. All 20 - year - olds of Iceland have a relatively easy access to alcohol. So I don't quite see how present drinking and selling practices have prevented individuals from buying alcohol. Except by responsible management of the retail system. To be honest, I'm thinking a lot of thought, and I think it is in the highest sense a mystery how much the members of the Independence Party and their members have advanced this matter at the council. Since then, authorities and the executives of the bill have talked a lot about Iceland's being completely unbelievably old and prepacked not selling alcohol at grocery stores, even if everyone who has studied it or studied it is aware that alcohol is not sold in free private sales all other places in the North countries except in Denmark and not in many states of the United States or all the states of Canada. That line simply does not match. It is once, so it is evident that it is more than a group of forward - looking society that limits access to alcohol than a society that may consider to be ancient and old - fashioned. But I'm sorry that the public health issues that both the secretary of the Independence Party and the head of the bill choose to ignore. Indeed, they are at hand and make the most of their viewpoints against the contents of this bill, as has been shown in the case of the council today. In the comments on almost comparable bill submitted during the last terms, both surgeons and all the raising, education, care, and health groups opposed the case. All the major social organization, child - rearing, strongly objected to a change in the existing law and against the freedom of the sale of alcohol. In their bill reviews, institutions and organizations in countless studies and their findings indicated support and weight gain from my assessment of the results and guidelines of the World Health Organization that are clear: Increasing access to alcohol greatly increases the risk of increased alcohol consumption. In this context, the surgeon general, including the surgeon general, points out: of the World Health Organization's effectiveness programme for 2013◯2020 for life-related diseases, which shows that one of the major factors in mortality due to life-related diseases is alcohol consumption. The World Health Organization warns against increasing access to alcohol and recommends the experience of all North American countries, except Denmark, who is responsible for the sale of alcohol, thereby providing reliable and guaranteed the maintenance of alcohol sales, guaranteeing responsible management of the sale and access to the product. I would also like to point out that Norway and Sweden, since alcohol availability and sales are restricted to state - bearing stores, are the countries that we would like to compare with when it comes to prosperity, welfare, and success if we look at them from economics and are the same countries that are the world's foremost concern for public health. Me and the Icelanders have also done a great job in the last few years of public health, and especially when it comes to reducing teen drinking. As a result, the country has been completely reversed. That, in fact, testifies to that fact. Specific research & analyses specialised in young people's outcome and well-being studies, both in Iceland and abroad. In the work of the research industry, there has been a map of pre-emptive work and pre-emptive techniques established in 1997 by a group of social scientists, policy makers, and people working with children and young people to re-think policies and activities in the field of prowes that could reverse the trend of increased drug consumption by young people during the 1990's, then in total non-employment and incremental problems. The result of this cooperation was a model of prevention, the Icelandic model based on cooperation with a number of relevant parties, to form parents, teachers, social centers, sports companies, and other people in close surroundings of children and young people. The result hasn't been secretive. Since 1992, alcohol and drug consumption by young people in Iceland have been highly intertwined since the beginning of the year. The results have indeed come from those who work with children and adolescents in precompetent work, among policymakers and politicians. In other words, that fact and that of reversal in the preemptive affairs of this country has not occurred on its own, as did some members of the council. paritaprevir Slagful Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter and why. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son, rather, has been saying that today, this reversal has cost blood, sweat and tears, much coordination, and tireless cooperation, both professional and amateur people of our children and young people. So it would be quite tragic, to say the least, if we were to throw the huge proselytizing work and the success that has been achieved by agreeing to increase access to alcohol and free sale. Why on earth should we risk this remarkable work for young people of this country? In addition to the public health issues that were presented on the bill of free drinking during the last term, there is a resolution of an organization that has now been heard on grounds that the bill has been published. On Friday, since they strongly criticize the bill and believe it to be contrary to the interests of children and their rights, I share the challenge of the Children's Childhood, UNICEF, and the Children's Subcommittee. These and others, including the one that stands here and a number of other members, believe that this bill that we now discuss is going even beyond the world of advertising. By permission of the President, the Association of Children's Health declared: ▪ Children have the right to the protection and care required of them. Official laws require that all appropriate measures, including legislators, be taken to protect children from the harmful effects of alcohol. Provides the research and position of health and social professionals on the bill involved in the removal of private ATSVR and the increased level of alcohol in advertising will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, including adolescents and adults. That's why I'm taking it. Should not all of us be stopping into the holes that humans are using to advertise, keep secret, and become aware? In other countries that take public health seriously, the trend in later years is that alcohol advertisements have been promoted. In some places drinking age has been increased, etc. Madam President. When it comes to access alcohol, who will benefit from the doubt? Is that not the children and homes? If people insist on picking up white wine with their lobsters, can they not do as we have done over the past few decades, picking up their white wine at a number of State liquor stores during their opening time? If the sacrifice cost of reducing alcohol - related social ills and reducing the terrible effects of alcohol consumption on youths, people in general, and family is that of not being able to go to a liquor store during the opening season, I don't have much sympathy for people who can't get their white wine at that time. I don't think there's anyone over-historic that no family in this country has anything to do with alcohol. Sadly, each family has in one way or another experienced the loss of a family member to the terrible disease of the drinking disease. Let's not order the danger home. Let us take note of the warnings given by health care professionals, as well as the health care professionals, and hold this adverse bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u225	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. The Senator made a very clear point, explaining what interests are being cared for by this bill. It's very obvious, it's not public interest. I agree with every word the senator gave in his talk. I'd also like to inform you that here in the councilroom, three of them are sitting. The members of the Independence Party, and I ask, "Where are the rest, if I count right, 18?" Clearly, this bill is not the only subject of independence. Otherwise, they would probably be here to participate and draw out their views. It has now been observed, last day, that members of the Independence Party do not agree at all. Hv. paritaprevir In a talk earlier today, Páll Magnússon said that he did not support that bill as it is. Interesting. It seems to me that as the discussion goes on, there's not much more here for this bill at all. [[Take it up, then. Let it through.]] So I ask why. A senator I'm asking here, not why. The members of the Independence Party, they can get to and ask for a speech or an answer like that, I ask: Is it not the time of the council to do more than that? [[Take it up, then. Let it through.]] Now it's crazy. The members of the Independence Party, saying, "Let it through." Then I'll say, "To slow down time." A welfare committee? I would have thought she had enough on her mind. It has many important issues for human health, health care, microplasia, and the elderly. Why don't we discuss that? Are we really going to keep talking about this drinking bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u226	Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for the counter, and she agrees with her comments about whether we should be dealing with other matters and more important than this petial matter of the independence party and their followers. It was interesting, too. A senator pointed out that there is probably no more part for this bill. A lot of independents have not participated in this discussion. On the other hand, I'd like to point them out. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has the obvious, that one of the carriers is the chairman of the welfare committee. She's sitting in the gym, boy. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty. Besides, she's a spokesman for children. I have to admit here that I feel very sad and sad. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty is included in this and that she is a co-porter on this bill. [[Up front.]] This certainly is not a bill for the advancement of welfare or youth or for the service of public health, which I truly believe is the course of action. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty is convinced that there is a need to enjoy a course in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u227	Madam President. Now I'm surprised, I have to say it. I had not realized that it was so. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty would be one of the bill's carriers. I've overlooked that. I'm sorry about what happened. A senator is also a spokesman for children and the chairman of the welfare committee. I'm really worried about this because I think, like, what. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir, that we are primarily to be guided by children's interests. Your children should always enjoy the doubt. Here we have a system that's doing just fine. Most people are happy with the work of the liquor camps. Why should we change a system that will benefit us if there is any doubt that the change will possibly affect those who may be lenient, such as children and those who have problems with alcohol, who, unfortunately, are numerous Icelanders? Why should we take that chance? Hv. paritaprevir I might be able to explain this to Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir. I don't understand. I don't understand why we're wasting the duration of the council on the third, fourth or fifth time the bill is submitted. It's a paradox bill. If you want to change the system as it is, you can invent some more original ways to do so than is recommended here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u228	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, declaring that I wholeheartedly agree with her and that the same wonder is that this bill has been submitted here in very few cases, if any, on the part of the government. At the council, we have a series of conferences and we are discussing this matter, which is certainly in all references to almost identical bill of the same precaution that is being taken by all major welfare and training organisations, strongly protesting that there will be a change in the law of liquor and tobacco trade. I think that the people's will as reflected in recent surveys is also that it is not a general wish to change the law of sales and shops with alcohol and tobacco. The majority of the nation's population, according to polls, prefers to maintain this system of sale exactly as it is. Here, several members of the Independence Party, such as kneeling to uphold certain viewpoints that benefit a certain group of members of the Independence Party and some imaginary voter class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u229	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir for her speech and agrees with her comments, saying that this bill is totally concerned with the interests of a narrow group. You can see if you read reviews about the case from previous councils when it has been submitted. There, the reviewers are completely divided into two groups; all health and social professionals warn against accepting this bill and talking about the interests of families, children, and other factors of enormous importance. The only members that recommend the bill in the reviews of previous councils are those of trade and services. This place is full of shit, like a whale. A senator says, is working on the interests of commerce and services at the expense of society. That's why I'd like to ask. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Braenfjörðurdóttir: Is she willing to agree with me on the importance of the cost analysis of social factors that could result in this? Advisors, health and social science professionals, point out that this will affect the health system, statistics show in studies that crime will increase, family, children, and caregivers will need additional assistance. Even children who come in there need to be supportive of the school system and need to be increased by the health system. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree that such a cost - analysis is necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u230	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yes, my answer to her question is yes, I agree that once you turn down the bills you have to have a cost assessment. This has been true in the matter of several others. Parliamentaries talking about this bill. Like what? A senator pointed out that there are a number of direct costs that result from changing the law on commerce with alcohol and tobacco and increasing its availability. Among other things, this costs are increased stress on health and health care professionals, increasing days of illness, and so on. Of course, it would be very interesting if there was some sort of cost assessment guide with such a bill. As I pointed out, before what? paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, with all the incomprehensiveness, is quite contradictory to say that the state is not trustworthy in handling and selling alcohol but requires the same time that the State and thus all of us take on the added financial burdens that come from allowing free buy of alcohol. I find it very irresponsible not to follow this cost assessment because if we just talk about a direct financial cost, it's enormous because of health and health problems caused by this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u231	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylffjordsdóttir. Now I want to move on. Today, we see our majors and biggest shops for the young, very old, if only I look at my community, studying 9th and 10th grade boxing. You can see a lot of hands when someone comes in, for example. to buy tobacco. Then there is one person who runs between the boxes, who has the age to handle the prescribed product, that children may sell the product, or that is properly said to buy it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would therefore have wondered. At times, transporters say that this should not increase alcohol availability, while in other talks they have said that this will increase access. Has a what? A senator wondered how the store will react to this. What will happen to these young ones? Many of them are trying to save themselves, perhaps come from less - wealthy families, and have to work with school in order to obtain various items. Has a what? A senator wondered if the store will even have to resign from these children or how the store or store should have access control over alcohol with the principal staff of high school age?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u232	Thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for her answer. Yeah, I've just wondered about the factors involved in the staff and surveillance, because according to this bill, if it works out, employees who do not drink can be under 18 years of age. The question was not clear enough. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson in response to today's decision to take care of this surveillance, i.e. The ages check, who could sell liquor? I also believe that without supervision for the sale, there is also a moral problem for shop staff. If we are generally talking about personnel matters, and that is a point that is very sensitive to this bill, then the staff case is usually very important when private interest in European government institutions is discussed. And it turns out that employees of the State's Alcohol and tobacco trades are involved. There are over 700 workers of alcohol and State tobacco trades. We are here eager to discuss the security of this group, which is certainly not being guaranteed by changing these laws. There is still the cost of this matter that falls on the side of the State, i.e. What happens to these staff? Is it getting ready in a store? What effect does this have on store staff? There are a lot of details in this case that are not planned, whether it is the cost of government funds, public health issues, staff issues, or other aspects of the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u233	V.E.G. President. Once again, we will discuss the priorities of the lntruders, the bill of changing the law about shopping with alcohol and tobacco. Before discussing the matter materially, I fail to understand the path of independence by presenting this tired matter again and again. I don't need to worry about it in myself, but I sense that it is very strong in the community that the popularity of the party does not increase with contributions like these and will not strengthen the position of members of the council. On the contrary, opposition to the matter increases as it is presented more often. I'm just hoping that the same thing about the general opinion, i.e. That there's not much more to it here. So I'm speaking to myself now, I'm totally against changing the current law on alcohol and tobacco and so will say no if the bill reaches a vote. Why am I against the bill? There are many reasons. The short answer is that, first of all, I believe that the progress of the matter would contribute to relapse, not progress, in the community in many areas, especially in public health and such matters. I will never support it. Second, there is no need to change the fine system we have today. I listened to photographing a senator yesterday. paritaprevir Slagful Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndottir, in the Generals speaking chair. There she referred to a bill in question and expressed her view that it was a great progress, like the free sale of alcohol in grocery stores to the development of color TV and other technological advancements. What a comparison. The fact is, it's just a matter of opinion. A senator and other members of Parliament who insist that progress is accepted. However, studies indicate something else. Similarly, there is no evidence that this time 2017, it is time to sell alcohol at grocery stores and allow advertising on alcohol in the media. We should be at that point in 2017, that we understand and have scientific information that free selling alcohol at the grocery store has nothing to do with progress and freedom, on the contrary. V.E.G. President. We're a community. Everything we do affects others in one way or another. We combine our community with our taxes, including benefits. The health - care system with them. Research shows that alcohol and increased samples increase consumption with associated health consequences, especially health costs. Is that what we want? I don't want to. However, the link between alcohol abuse and injury is clear and clear, especially in the matter of violence, traffic accidents, and other accidents. According to the World Health Organization, in the year 2000, 4% of all deaths and disability were caused by alcohol. Alcohol thus proved to be the fifth most harmful risk factor in the 26 surveyed. Alcohol causes as much health as tobacco. Research shows that the level of alcohol consumption will increase by more than 40% by eliminating alcohol advertisements and allowing drinking to be sold at grocery stores, with the associated long - term health problems and diseases. Most important, I do not consider free sales to benefit consumers, as painters have tried to persuade us to believe. Especially in the more scattered areas where selection will decrease and may increase. There was a difference of opinion. It was easy to hear in the newly elected week that most people in the country do not want to change the arrangement today, not because they are opposed to alcohol and alcohol, but because they want to have access to good wine, good products, and are able to buy it at reasonable prices, so that what has been claimed would be an advantage for consumers, they do not resist how the matter is viewed. I'd also like to mention that the delegates of the district week lamented that the matter had come over their heads once again and again and respectfully told us that we should not spend the time of the Generals in this matter but rather the structure of the health system, transportation, and other infrastructure. Unfortunately, all of us here are once again drawn into this circus; now let's discuss the liquor bill. This is totally pathetic. A respectable president. It is proper to reiterate that the reviews received to the World Health Committee last time the case was presented were negative, except for the comments made by traders. I believe a surgeon's argument should outweigh the arguments of the store's stakeholders who insist on getting alcohol into stores. I wonder why. Yes, the view of the store is based solely on profit, not on concern for society. I understand, however, the view that some feel that a store should not be in the hands of the State, and in some ways it can be accepted. But the course suggested in the bill, i.e. moving alcohol into the grocery store and allowing alcohol ads, I think, is absolutely cowardly. This bill describes freedomism in its worst form. I also feel that it expresses such feelings of inadequacy. There are reports of drinking traditions in southern Europe. Everything's so nice and cool. Why can we not be like them? It seems natural to drink wine with food and preferably to know how to handle it. The point is, this bill has nothing to do with a bad promise. We are to have confidence that we will go our own way, take advantage of the opportunity, and learn from the experience of other nations. We can be examples, not followers. Sweden decided, e.g. A few years ago, he was allowed to sell alcohol at a grocery store. They quickly withdrew from that path because of heavy drinking of young people. They changed the system back as it was, and now no one in Sweden speaks of letting alcohol back in grocery stores. They learned from experience. Why do we want to repeat their mistakes? I just don't get it. Let's keep talking about young people. I had a meeting with students at the University of Southnesa a few weeks ago. They wondered deeply about the consequences of selling alcoholic beverages at grocery stores, where many of them work in such stores along the course. They were worried about this matter. They weren't excited about it. According to this, no one is paid to change the current law, not the young people, not those who are ill for alcohol but who have to go shopping regularly and buy groceries like the rest, not people living in the country, nor taxpayers who have to carry even more burden than now, if this is due to the increase in government funds to health care, law enforcement, and other factors that will try much more. Alcohol consumption will be increased by increasing bioavailability and demonstration, no matter what young volunteers say. I prefer the society of public health experts to the younger independents. A recent letter was sent to members of the Parliament by the Society of Public Health. I hope that young independence men and the three still sitting in the hall read this letter, but I'm going to read it here, by permission of the president. Let us all listen carefully and carefully, for this is important. They're people who know the language. A beloved general/woman. Public health experts are sorry that there is once again a bill about the execution of alcohol and tobacco free on a small alcohol trade and that this time drinking ads are also to be authorized. People have repeatedly noted an increase in problems that will confront them because of increased drinking if the bill is accepted, especially in vulnerable groups. There is increased stress on the health system, which is the least likely to meet the increased incidence of disease and subsequent accidents. This has been supported by studies referred to by the surgeon general's office and also by the World Health Organization's policies. The damage that increased alcohol consumption will have been identified in third parties in the form of violence, accidents, mental decompensation, and other factors. Surprisingly, the society of democracies is that, however, certain democratically elected members of Congress consider it important to put this bill through the council as soon as possible. I just want to shoot in there and suggest that I give it a shot. 1st transferer of the bill, huh? paritaprevir Goat Björn Einarsson, stop gigging in the audience, and pay attention because there are people who know how to deal with the situation. By permission of the President, I will continue to read this letter from the Society of Public Health Experts: ▪ Alcohol is not a regular consumer product. That's what we're trying to do. This is made clear in a publication found on the website of a surgeon's office. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to have any more words for this matter. I hope this discussion affects the members of the council who are still undecided. And I also hope that the young cheerful independents just listen, learn, and listen to what the scholars and studies show, and simply retract the matter. It is shameful to spend the time of the Generals on such a matter. I'm just hoping that if the matter doesn't go away, it won't get started at the council of this council, at least. The members of the Independence Party get their message and don't say it again. We've really had enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u234	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm gonna grab some things and agree with her. That's what we heard during the district week too. Schoolmasters, health professionals, and others came to our home, we met a huge number of people, all the members of the council who were meeting together. This was the case with doctors and other sources and asked: "Why on earth again? What are people thinking? We were at a meeting the other day with the UICEF Youth Council and Children's Coordinators and Children's Directors. They asked about this too. This is not a matter that young people are asking for. Indeed, it is evident everywhere that a large percentage of the people of the country do not want it. Then who are they fighting for? We're not gonna fill up 3. The United Nations Children's Covenant, with this, where we put the interests of children in first place when we make decisions, is clear. I don't think we can be meeting government policy by drugs until 2020. I think she's making a lot of noise. I agree with what. Senator I think people should think about their next trip. We also need to ask ourselves: " Is this a professional approach to matters at all? I don't think so. I'll ask the senator if she agrees with me in that. Is this on a democratic basis? Not that a large part of the nation has taken sides that it does not. What are the improvements? The system's good. It works well. It is not just the hope of satisfaction that shows it but that our system has worked well in so many ways. We can say that this is all there is to be. I'm asking why. A senator whether it does not have a similar view of this aspect as I do and whether it is in harmony with the children's covenant and other laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u235	Madam President. I thank the senator a very good answer. I'm in the same place as what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Like I said in my story talk earlier, I can't figure this out. Or, yes, I realize this. The natural purpose is to serve storekeepers. It's natural for profit. Only if this is possible at the expense of all the others, they will benefit. Does that make any sense? No, it doesn't make any sense. It's a good question I got from what? Senator: Is this a professional approach? No, it's not a professional approach. This has been shown in many discourses today and in previous councils, so that we're just going to review it just as well, that a number of results from the world's research shows that a change in the present system would come back. Why do we want to change a system that takes us back? We're taking an unnecessary risk to society at an unknown expense. Hv. The members of the Independence Party usually open their eyes when you talk about the cost and the money so that the evidence should now be enough to slow them down in this matter, I hope so. Reservation doesn't have to do with it. Like what? A senator said in the counter, we have a good system. I agree with that. There is nothing in this that would improve. Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u236	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. What might have happened to me today was that. An authority ignored virtually scientific research. I found that very interesting, perhaps more about the layman than many other things. I, however, find it dangerous to allow such comments in the Senate. I hope it's only limited to this one thing because he doesn't think of anything else. What you're also worried about is profit. He's not really there today with ATVR, but that's not the goal of making a profit, of course, it's the goal of big parties like Hagah and more people, shops, to make a profit. You cannot overlook the fact that this is a matter of special interest, not all of society's interests. [[The president calls.]] The fact that Hagar's already got 75 drinks is telling you something. They wait in starting places, trusting that this opulent government will pass this through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u237	Madam President. I have a feeling we're doing what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir can breathe slowly, for this garnished government is very broken in this matter. She's not a team at all. It has been presented in a public speaker and in the media that members of the Independence Party are by no means united in this matter. It has also been observed here and elsewhere that the members of the two parties do not agree in this matter. Surprisingly, one of the two members of Hearts who are on the subject is at the same time a spokesman for children and the head of the welfare committee. There's something really weird about all this. This is not a good thing. We have a fine service to the State's liquor camps. Like what? A senator said that it was not a business force for profit but, above all, the privilege of rendering good service, good merchandise, and a good price. Therefore, I don't want to be the one who drinks alcohol in moderation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u238	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for a quick, repetitive speech earlier. I agree with her in all the basics. I'd like to hear her attitude regarding that point on the bill that turns into an advertisement of alcohol. It has indeed been found to be critical in the common challenge of the Children's Environment, UNICEF, and the Children's Directorate for the bill, as well as in parents' agencies against alcohol advertisements regarding this change of law that actually goes beyond the basics of selling alcohol and tobacco in free shops that have been discussed at the council. It's actually going further. By permission of the President's local drinking advertisements, they say: It is a call for delinquency in human health, of course the conduct of the rights of children and young people to be free of alcohol propaganda and, in all principle, violate all the goals of preemptive work and conflict with official public health policies that have been generally agreed on. I want to hear food and an opinion. A senator of the change shown in the bill, i.e. About alcohol advertisements.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u239	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Björg Brynjólfsdóttir counter. As I said before, I'm very worried about the change the bill contains, i.e. that alcohol advertisements are also permitted. I heard one off. In his talk earlier today, a member of the Independence Party, Sverrisdóttir Sverisd said that alcohol advertisements were everywhere anyway, they were online, they were in magazines, and elsewhere. As two young children, I can say here that my children are very little online and they are not reading foreign magazines or magazines yet. I'm gonna keep it that way. Of course, you cannot protect your children indefinitely, but as noted earlier, increased consumption of samples is accompanied by an increase in sample consumption. On various occasions alcohol abuse is being legalized. Children are impressionful. They are far more influential than we adult people. They are receptive to these advertisements. Over the years, we have achieved tremendous success in preemptive activity, huge success. I don't want to risk changing the existing drinking law. Why on earth? Because other nations allow it? Because it's everywhere else? That argument isn't enough for me. The former U.S. National Health Policy. The minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, a member of the Independence Party, the current minister of education, agreed and submitted, plays by no means with this bill. It is totally contrary to our modern - day public health policies. Why are we discussing this here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u240	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. I share this worry with the wind. A senator, i.e. about the level of alcohol in advertisements. Both scholars and experts are concerned about the increased level of alcohol in advertising. If we legalize that demonstration, we'll see more advertisements. Of course, they will turn on young men and children, such as whales. A senator came in. My next question was to discuss the general health issues presented in the Treaty of a new government. Because of what? A senator introduced a public health policy established by the advanced health minister is also fine to call attention to. I'd like to hear a thought. paritaprevir The Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir on how this bill harmonizes with the emphasis of a new government on the public health issues. [[The president calls.]] How does it actually work out?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u241	Madam President. The short answer is that it is not compatible at all. I studied it in my speech, and I read a letter from the society of public health experts where they strongly protested a local bill and covered the reasons why they do not consider it to be progress like the one listed here. In itself, it does not have to say any more. I'd like to hear about this inconsistencies with current public health policies as of any given moment. paritaprevir Kristján, Júlíusson Julie's son, set us up here, and I think it's very good. This may be mentioned in the talks in the morning when more people are having sex. Councilmen speak up. The current government covenant in this respect is also good. It is only in perfect harmony with what people have spoken about and spoken of.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u242	A respectable president. Thank you for the history of a man. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and I'd like to say that I strongly agree with her. I'm a little surprised at my work on this case. I thought I'd come here and start by conjuring the Independence Party to have one top priority, but I would have chosen it wasn't the liquor bill. It's strange that it's placed in the foregrounds of a recent council, that this is one of the main points, and we're spending all this time when all the research shows that increasing access means increasing consumption. It just so happens that the results of this policy in Iceland are very good. I'm having a hard time understanding why we're going to make something that's working just fine in our community. I have to admit, I'm just a little involved in this group of litigation. It's been a success for us. It is noted by the surgeon general that increasing the availability of alcohol will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, as mentioned earlier, which is likely to increase the rate of individual and social problems that may double the social cost of alcohol consumption. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir: How does it make you feel if this community cost has been valued? I miss this case when I look at the Independence Party and those who are with him that the cost has not been examined further. I feel quite amazing when these senators are ready to take this big step that they have not done it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u243	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir very much for a good answer. You're right. One senator, research shows that increasing the availability of food is increasing. I mentioned the past experience of Swía from this case. They went along that way to allow alcohol in the grocery store and then disappeared from that system. No longer will anyone discuss that they want to change it back. Sweden is not a preeminent nation. I'd say the Swedes are a bad nation and a progressive people. I think we should look there rather than for Dana, who are experiencing extreme problems with alcohol, especially young people. There is a huge problem, the incidence of alcohol - related diseases, accidents, and other factors is a major problem. There is no model for us to follow in these matters. As I said earlier, I was also hoping that the young, happy members of the Independence Party would present a second priority, thus agreeing. paritaprevir Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, young people, newcomers and creatives. I was hoping to see some real progress, something that could result in public gain in many ways. In the past, it was reported that this has not been the cost. No one in this hall has talked about it, and I don't know that the cost was worth it. We've talked very quickly at the council about the mental health of the Icelanders. We need to respond. We need to improve that party. We need to make a lot of money for law enforcement. We need to improve our health. Increasing consumption of alcohol without doubt increasing bioavailability and display increases this cost. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't take a specialist to see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u244	Thank you. A senator for a very good answer. I just wanted to say that I was at an OECD meeting in Paris last week. As it goes and happens, it's sitting next to our cousins, Irish. I told one of them that I was merely measuring against the liquor bill in the media, and he starts asking me what I'm doing at home. I'll tell him about this bill. He says, "I just don't believe it because what we're doing right now is trying to reduce access to alcohol at grocery stores. " We are going to try to make the alcohol less visible, and there will be a special apartment, which will be a liquor store in the grocery store. He said, "It's gonna be so hard. There are such strong economists that taking the big step we're trying to do is very difficult. If the issue is the way it is with you and the Swede, do not change the course. [[The president calls.]] These were advice from our happy cousins, the Irish.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-23-31.u245	Madam President. It is a pleasure to know that not only are there independents in the chamber who are cheerful but our cousins, the Irish, who are also so cheerful. I'm glad. It's very clear, as I mentioned in my introduction earlier, and I wondered why we should follow a path that others have gone away from or a nation like the Irish who are trying to turn back from the system they have and look to us. As I said before, it's about having confidence. We, Icelanders, have so much inadequacy to reflect so clearly in this matter that our system is not good enough, it's all so cool elsewhere. Like what? paritaprevir Rósa Björg Brynjólfsdóttir came in earlier, when you better check, perhaps more of those nations, e.g. Areas in the United States and Canada, just not so insanely liberal as well. The members of the Independence Party try to convince us of our beliefs, and we are to follow because it is so cool. [[The president calls.]] It's just not cool at all. Being as we are is much more cool, and let's just keep going.
