ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u1	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today than it is recommended, if needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u2	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 270, on housing, from Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, and on the threshing floor. 219, for children with disability, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u3	By letter, dated March 20th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Parliamentary reports on the follow-up reports of the National Reexamination on the management and management of Iceland's National Institute of Science, on the costs and effectiveness of training at the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri, on the development of the medical costs of 2008-2010 and on the implementation and implementation of the framework agreements. By letter, dated March 20th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, on the reports of the National Reconnaissance of Food Organization, on domestic waste management, and on the National Gallery of Sigurion son of Olafur.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u4	A respectable president. The arrangement at the General Assembly is that it is not common for us senators to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister. This program has two half-hours marked, unprepared queries. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister was on the program as minister today for answers. Then we get the information by noon that she won't be here to answer. I'd like to make a comment to that, Mr. Honorable President, for this is a minister standing in the line of fire right now, and most certainly because of the request of the chairman of the town council of Smokeytown for immediate closure of United Silicon's factory in the south. There is good reason for the secretary of the environment to answer that question. I'm asking the highest. The president whether this is an explanation for the nature of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u5	A respectable president. I have to say the word with what. paritaprevir Swavardístóttir Svavarsdóttir, it's unacceptable that environmental ministers are unable to attend here in unsubstantiated inquiries today. As a result, we have a very serious pollution problem that we need to keep our word at the highest level. Ministers sooner than later on on on what is the highest. The Minister intends to proceed with that matter. We may put people's health and lives at risk with the heavy pollution in that area. It is vital that we respond to the first. A respectable president. It would be good to know how to do so. Minister will announce inequities in unsubstantiated inquiries at such short notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u6	President. I, like many other members of Congress, thought I would have a word with the environmental Minister on matters that actually demand immediate answers and reactions on the part of the Minister. So I feel very sad that this conversation cannot be discussed with an appropriate minister in order to get clear answers. I hope those ministers who will get inquiries today on the matter related, if they do, can answer on behalf of the Minister, for I feel that, President, we can't let these matters be, which are time-separated or so we need to get answers right away. [[The president calls.]] The Congress is really completely powerless to do anything to be here with the Commission's serious surveillance and to press the execution of the Commission to do what it should do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u7	A respectable president. Perhaps it is not surprising that I will cut down on the same knees as the members of the council who have come before me. We've had that experience in our time. The Environment and Transport Committee that there are enough issues in this category to address, a matter needed to have a word about being a member of the council hall, not to mention the issues that have been established. How shocking it is that there is a situation in which a minister cannot see how to speak with us! It's only natural for me to think that if this happens, which I hope will rarely be, there is a very strong reason that clearly and clearly is reported, that a minister cannot just have the authority not to attend without discussing it any further at the council each place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u8	A respectable president. I wish that, like my colleagues here who have spoken up, should receive clear answers from the highest. President or chief. A minister of her absence today, where the matter is urgent and we are weighed not only by the inhabitants of the city of Rhines but by all the rest of us. Actually, I'm on both sides, and I'm also a resident of the city of Smokejanes, so I have a very serious duty. I read it on Viking News's web last night that arsenic pollution was twenty times as much as we're allowed, I hope I'm right. It is a cancery substance, and people understandably have much to worry about. I agree with my companions again and again, why is the Minister not here today to answer our questions? Will a minister respond as soon as possible and answer the questions of the council regarding this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u9	Madam President. There are a lot of them now. The things we need to talk to the highest. Minister of the environment. I was planning to talk to her about Lake Mice and hope that she has the opportunity to hear that message from here from me from a speaker about how I would like to speak with her about that exact matter. At the same time, I agree with the inventions that have been shown here that we should get an alibi as soon as ministers proclaim alibi with such short notice as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u10	Madam President. It's a coincidence at the highest. Environment Minister isn't here today? I don't know. I hope, though, that this is because if she does not have legitimate mistakes, it is first of all rudeness to members of the council who expected it to be here to be answered, and this is naturally unscrupulous to the people who are waiting for her to give an explanation in what is now being presented in the town of Rhines. It has previously been observed that there is 20-fold arsenic pollution on the basis of what was expected when the license was issued. It's a carcinogenic substance. If a minister does not have a legitimate excuse, she should come down here immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u11	Madam President. I cannot imagine the concern and inadequacy experienced by people living around the United Silicon factory. It is apathy and lack of discernment that we are not here to explain to the people what their plan of action is in this matter. I beg the president, as my colleagues have done here, to explain the absence of the minister at this critical time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u12	Madam President. Now, this pollution issue has been going on for quite a while regarding United Silicon, Helga. The decision - making process on how the case is going on has been slow. At this point, after we have received information about considerably more serious types of pollution from the factory than was completed, I think it would be necessary to get to the top. Environment Minister come here and answer for that. This is urgent. It's been urgent ever since before Christmas and even longer. Now we need to get the bottom of it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u13	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and equality ministers, foreign ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u14	Madam President. I'd like to have a place to say to the highest. Secretary of travel on Keflavík Airport and its construction. It has become quite boring in this cry of liberalism that any well - owned state, giving the nation both money and profit, will be sold. There was nothing else to hear at the highest. Ministers earlier in the month than her feeling that it was important for her to sell Keflavík Airport or at least a part of it to private people. It is a repugnant and shortsighted idea to hide a private monopoly into important public service, the lifeblood of tourism, likely the freedom of the public, and even a security role. Nor is it to increase confidence that the arrival of a foreign bank into the market has been a fraud or a compromise. So the bank was delivered to acceptable buyers. Apart from the evil idea of selling Keflavík Airport or Isavia, I do not trust the Independence Party in the light of the latest events to represent such a sale. The above interview was the highest. Ministers, therefore, that the public should not have financial risks for the building in Keflavík. It's a respectable view. But is there enough risk to be a good idea? The director of Istavia has said that the government's risks are very low and that the structure at the airport is financed with loans and behind those loans is not a state of responsibility. It was the highest. A minister is aware of this arrangement when she declared it in an interview? Does a minister disagree with the director about the national risk being small? What, then, is wrong with the director's words, and what is the risk? It's the highest. In other words, a minister still believes that it is important to sell at least part of this amazing business?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u15	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. To me, he's discussing a few things here. What I drew attention to is, and that is my opinion, and is my opinion, that great building in the Cheflavour Airport for tens of billions. So I think it's a question of whether the structure should be totally in the hands of the state, that's the tax dollars that is used in it, or if some kind of immune capital can be achieved there, as I also think it is all right in large roads, that's my opinion. Pension funds are for example. examples of this. What the president of Istavia then mentioned is also another factor that is all right, but slow. A senator does not make me go through some way to argue with the president of Istavia, who is not here to answer for what I would like to say to him. We're just going to do it together. It's obvious that the airport has to be extended at Keflavík Airport. It is then a question, and a whole other matter, whether it should be built up completely without asking what other infrastructures in this country are going through. If this area is the main mystery into the country and the objective is just one, i.e. to receive everyone who wants to come, you also need to ask, How does the transportation system respond? How does the workforce react? What housing market do we have to accept these people? It is also everything else, I think, whether the kingdom has a runway, a great covert, or the state has a free house and shops that sell beauty products. I think there's a difference. That was only what I was opening on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u16	Madam President. It is not difficult to ask: Has there been much tax in this structure? According to the director, it is actually paid with its own money and loan, and there is no state responsibility. Has the minister any idea of who would be equipped to enter such a project? Has she ever wondered, then, what state's status is as important to business as Cheflavour Airport if private people take it the worst way? Finally. Do ministers know the consequences of the collapse of unique banks on Icelandic economy, Icelandic home, the public? Who does this fall on, then, when private people slip on their asses?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u17	Madam President. Istavia is an ohf, which means that there is a public body, which means that the responsibility must be the State, at least In an indirect way, if things don't go as planned. I'm not going to say here that there's a high possibility of some kind of system crash in the tourism service, I'm gonna get the hell out of it. All of us agree that it was important to make a move. On the other hand, if we had already destroyed, say 80. Millions of buildings and hfs. does, and something comes up, so don't make money back, so the responsibility is always indirect to the state. I'm quite a spokesman for foreign investments. I'm not going to stop doing so despite the occurrence of some incidents, whether it was in a collapse a decade ago or will occur in the future. We need a foreign investment. I'm not going to talk about whether it's supposed to be foreign investments or pensions, what kind of immune capital, all I said was that I don't feel that the structure at the Cheflavour Airport should all be in the hands of the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I still feel that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u18	President. V.E.G. Environment Minister is not in the room and the highest. Neither is prime minister to answer a question about a subject. It is available to a factory in Rhinestown, United Silicon. So I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest degree. Health Minister, for he is the chairman of a single company in this government. A proposal has been made for greater consultations between ministers on complex issues and a considerable discussion was made in negotiations with the development of the government that it was necessary for more consultation between counsel and minister when it was time to address issues that would cover many areas. In this case, one aspect of this case falls under the highest legal range. Health ministers and the health damage the local population fears to suffer. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it a requirement to meet at the opposite or against the Ministry on the subject, and how to respond? Has there been any discussion at government meetings whether or not to satisfy the company's wishes that the factory be shut down?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u19	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the trust to direct it to me. As health ministers, I must say, I have not had these matters at my table and have difficulty giving an answer for the highest level. Environment Minister and her work or work at her Ministry. But I think I know, and I've heard that the cause of this factory has been especially on the table lately, and there have been many reports of trouble in the business. Of course, there will be health risks that come directly in the middle of the table and ours at the health services of the Ministry, but it is not yet there. I can't really answer the exact question for the highest level. Environment Minister in this context. This matter has not been specifically discussed on the cross-cutting basis of the Ministers, not so I know, but I don't want to rule out the possibility of being smart. At the moment, I don't know much more about this than what is in the media. A senator is likely to testify. I have to answer it so that I can get the best information on it from the highest level. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u20	President. I'll just have to ask: There was a council meeting just before, and I understand that the Environment Minister of the Environment has attended a council meeting at the highest level. Secretary of health. Didn't this matter be discussed at a party meeting, Hearts for the future? That's a big surprise. Also, I have to mention that the area in the community has been reputed beyond the health limit of Arsen. This has been known. We have received detailed information on these problems from the EEA, health - related problems since the beginning of this year. That's why I have to ask the highest. Secretary and chairman of the government class to see if there is no basis for bringing together a cross-cutting meeting with counsellers from all government groups to review this issue today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u21	Madam President. Like what? A senator knows that there is a debate at the council meetings of the political parties in general on the affairs of the council, and now we may not be accustomed to discussing them in particular here at the council Hall. I want to agree with that with what. Now, a senator, of course, I'm worried about this news when we hear about pollution that goes above the risk and threshold. I have every confidence in the highest. To take such information very seriously, a secretary of the environment was confident that she and the members of the Ministry are considering this matter. I suppose the government will discuss this at its next meeting, and I have no reason but to trust in work at the highest level. Minister of the environment until the government meets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u22	Madam President. I want in the highest. Social and housing minister, as it may be called, what is being heard about government work on that subject. Now, I've learned to appoint, first, a four minister of action, that was done at the end of February, and then announced that the list of operations would soon be held, followed by the highest level. Secretary of staff meeting with local representatives in the capital area. The conclusion was to appoint a government task force with a local representative in the capital area. All of this is good and blessed, but we must ask about action and especially the highest. A minister who has personally had big words about the malady and the present deficiency. What news of this work? Will the government contribute to this work more money? Stands e.g. to try to speed up and increase the level of building a rented house? Because I couldn't agree more than that. Ministers, of course, that the shortage is a major part of this problem. What about invasion of the tourist service of the apartment market? Will it be necessary in this work to limit even as many or more apartments as possible to a travel - service project that is tried to build up at any given time a new rented apartment, so we tape in the same print? What about the profit - making invasion of tenants into the real estate market that we've seen the past semester, including the results. That rent has grown very badly, and now it's taken a lot of money out of that picture? It would be helpful to know only what is to be expected in these areas. When to expect preparation or results and what we intend to do at the latest. A government to intervene in any of these cases? Finally, I cannot help but ask the highest. Minister, since I've had a chance to see if he's comfortable with his partner's answer. With regard to a so-called loan group that appeared here last week where in human language it is said the government is not going to do anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u23	Madam President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. It is hardly possible to say that this work is going to work well. In the beginning, we said that it was not the purpose of this group to go down into long reporting, since many of them have been written on the challenges of the housing market in recent years but primarily to provide helpful suggestions for improvement. I expect the results to come in the next few weeks. We met with mayors and mayors of the countryside in the capital area last week, where we considered what their ideas were on what could be done in these matters. The conclusion was not to establish a new group. Rather, it was simply that local societies in the capital area would appoint two or three members of the working group to fill in with the image they are trying to draw. We will then introduce to you the actions that we consider practical for improvement. This is a big problem. Of course, it lies primarily in the supply field, where we look at how we can sharpen the construction of the capital area and other areas of the country in terms of the responsibility of our community in ensuring enough supply of property or housing to the desired demand. The problem we face was totally predictable and increasing now because of the small amount of housing that comes into the market. There we will see a sign right away in the matters I present for the assembly in spring, where we will make suggestions for improvement. We do not proclaim the government's bringing in with huge expenses. Rather, the main way we help build up a real estate market is to do so. With regard to the introduction and construction of the general tenant, significant extra funds have been provided there. It will also be seen in a five-year budget program that will be introduced to provide increased emphasis on the construction of so-called general apartments. It must also be remembered that this has been a matter of time ago of the need to increase the supply of rent houses. [[The president calls.]] Part of it will be socialized, but a part of it will also be fired by private agents. [[The president calls.]] It may not be all bad, for rent prices have been found to increase less than real prices in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u24	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Although rent prices have not completely pursued the prices of real estate markets here in the capital area, this has gone up a lot. I am content that much time should not be spent on a large report, but I may be less pleased with it if it is the point of view that governments are not going to contribute much more materially. I think it's natural to be what it's all about. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister, since formal cooperation with a local community organization in the capital area is, of course, the best case: Is the Minister's opinion in some way comparable to that of rural areas in the country, or their representatives? There are also deficiencies, but for a very different reason than those whom we know here. I think it's no less reason to make some kind of contact with the communities that have housing problems than with those that are predominantly affected on this corner of the country. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister may find that in his later reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u25	President. As a blessing, governments do not always have to charge billions to support building a real estate market and many of the things that have been repeatedly identified are just the barriers that have been put on building on the side of the same government. There is a need to improve planning. It lacks to look to the ways in which small apartments can be built. Despite years of discussion about the need, we simply see that no such apartment is available. It's about the price of property, the rules to which it belongs. It has to do with building a structure, the flexibility it provides for the development of small housing. These are all factors that we are considering to correct. I am well aware of the challenges we face in developing the country. That's one of the things we're looking at, how to give special support to rural society in a country that has this conflict between cost prices and market prices in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u26	V.E.G. President. On Birt's web for the future, quality top. A health minister, by permission of the president, can find the following incoherents: ▪ Resurrected health care systems, with vastly improved national health care, age management, public health and prevention, new Land Hospitals, improved quality monitoring, and much less payment by patients. I think that no one would oppose this unless it was less than that and that these words could have stood as a matter of policy in any political group. Madam President. When humans are on the move to do something really wrong, they look a little different. This is, of course, where I refer to the highest. A health minister comes from the very first commission: a bright future. Now, according to a report published in the Morning Press before the weekend, a large percentage of the 67 - year - old and older people are reluctant to go to the dentist for expenses, and only about half of the people of that age went to the dentist last year. Iceland's health insurance has to be reimbursed three-quarters of the dentist's expenses for a pensioner, but reimbursement is actually considerably less, considering an out - of - date list. The situation, then, is this, Madam President: People are reluctant to seek self - righteous and normal health care because of expenses. It is also stated in the Morning Press to the highest point. The minister of Óttarr Proppé did not allow an interview on the subject. V.E.G. President. I don't think it's easy to let the matter go, and I don't think a minister can avoid answering this clearly, because it's now with us humans that we feel pain at all ages. We feel the pain of Karius and Baktus. That my knowledge must deal with this problem in one way or another. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister if he intends to fulfill much, much less patient payment, as is so beautifully written on the Bjart's homepage.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u27	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question and the trial. I'd call it the sharpening and the review of both the future's policy. I'm completely on that course. I'm fully committed to wanting much less payment, as it shows, and doing my best to get it done as I possibly can get into my role as a minister. I have now served as a minister for over two months, and in those jobs, I have been working for financial purposes for 2017, approved by the International Assembly before this government began. There's certainly an additional amount of donations to reduce the overall payment of patients by recording the patient's new payment system in May, but it is, unfortunately, true that dentists are still largely out of the Icelandic health system. That's too bad. I am very aware of this defect in the system and have often expressed myself about it, both after I became a minister and before, that I would like to see it change. I have not been in a position to change the weeks that I have served as a minister. But this is one of the things I will certainly use myself for. About the Morning Journal. That's good coverage. It may be said that if I remember correctly, the minister did not allow an interview. Rather, I simply could not arrange for an interview in the case where I was busy at a meeting with the health - care executives in the country when the article was being completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister to his answer. Of course, it is close to a minister, when the law has been closed, money may be reversed. But the law was accepted, and the plan was that a new government would put its mark on them. It is a question of what the emphasis on the future will be on that work. V.E.G. A minister knows best that if the will is there, there are many things that can be done. I want to point the top. According to the health minister of road transport, 1,200 million more were found in transport. Then I would like to ask: Is the Minister of Health Contradicted that a similar amount may be found in the Ministry of finance if you search well for a relief from your elderly life?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u29	Madam President. This minister is well - known to look at financial difficulties. In particular, the government approved and appointed health minister and secretary of finance to consider how to find ways to fill in real need when it came to drug funding. That work's going on. It's one of my assignments. As the senator mentioned, there are 1,200 million, yet in the health - care system, we are examining 200 billion people working on a wide and wide range. In many places, the shoe squeezes. [[The president calls.]] I try to work at things that are not the norm. [[The president calls.]] But the main thing about dentists is that I want to do better, and we try to do as well as we possibly can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u30	A respectable president. I have a question for the highest. Healthcare Minister for public costs due to different kinds of expert services. The introduction to a new system of credits is imminent, as shown here. The plan is to protect users of the health care services needed by a large number of users. For that reason, ASI made a announcement the other day. It was brought to my attention that in examples taken by ASI by the public cost of three types of service, i.e. The interview with the gynaecologist, the interview with the head, nose and ear specialist, and heart surgeon interviews, were considerably higher at the public, women's costs for interview with the gynaecologist. As a result, I came to a closer check, and I reported figures in the early 1990's and in 2010,2016. It's in the mixed articles, i.e. as there is no difference between males and women in service, 11.5% over total average. For so - called female articles, the average cost is 10% for the public. However, in the case of male - based articles, the cost of individual activities is less than 33%. I'm not going to stand here by myself and protest if you read from the lines that men are generally simpler and cheaper form of homo sapiens than women. But I'd like to ask the highest. The health minister is not sure that there is any reason to look better in these terms, to reinvent the application charges to experts, and to use this opportunity when changing the payment protocols, and to restore these issues. Because it's not okay like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager for a good inquiry. Now we are implementing a new interdicting system that was produced by a transpiritian committee that returned to the Ministry of Health in March 2015. It's a system of payment that is always taught to Pétur H. Blöndalur the Soul; it's the senator who is written for the thought behind the system. Like what? A senator pointed out that it is designed to distribute the cost of patient participation so that those who have a very large amount of service pay less than those who use my ministry pay a little more. In addition, there was an agreement - that was part of the approval of the new law in June 2016, of all members of the council, if I remember correctly, that gave votes - to add money into the system to meet children specifically, the elderly, and the desperate. I have to agree with what. A senator, I am himself a fan of the sex - related economy, and I feel that my glasses are very important when it comes to looking into issues, health issues, as well as financial and exceinsibilities. I must admit that in general, as I watch health care and clumsiness, I do not reproduce the ministry or the trouble, but I know that some medical services are certainly more dependent on one sex than on the other. I don't have a word but a word. A senator for this distinction I find striking. I certainly feel that there is reason for me to look at it better and discern it. I'll celebrate their work and take advantage of it. I may find that in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much concerned with the answer. It is ended in the spirit of what I was hoping to have. I understand that, despite a considerable publicity in the media last year, if I recall correctly, about the so - called pink tax that seems to fall on the most incredible products, as long as there is any chance that women or girls will use them beyond men or boys, that it takes quite a bit of imagination to imagine that the pink colour is going around in the health system, as these figures suggest. So I can't help but rejoice at the height. A minister will pick it up and offer my help to show him those figures I've just come to understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u33	Madam President. I'm glad you let me take a closer look at these numbers. It is quite clear that in the new payment laws it is certainly not the intention of the lawgiver, not the spirit of the law, I mean, that discrimination between people by sex or otherwise. On the contrary, the legislation is specifically designed and developed to try to balance the burden, not only to prevent those who have to use large and varied health care services from having to pay particularly much for it, as in previous systems, unfortunately, but also to try to protect those who are close to high costs. It was reported that there were special children's families, the health care of children, the elderly, and the desperate. I welcome this discussion and look forward to continuing it in a better void.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u34	A respectable president. This specific discussion discusses the content and suggestions contained in a report by the Committee to conduct a full review of the law No. 25/1975, advice on sexual advice and training on pregnancy and abortion and sterilisation. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister, Óttar of Proppér, for sharing in this discussion with me. The report is extensively covered in current legislation, as well as guidelines for improving, e.g. by dividing them into three separate statutes, i.e. the advice on counselling and instruction on sexual activity and childbearing status, pregnancy break-ups and special requirements for infertility. A pregnancy breach is just a recent term that suggests the use of the term abortion, but the word "probably describes the procedure better than the " old ', as well as being more neutral in nature. Here I would like to express my support to the group's motions. Although the report represents some of the sexual health and sexual freedom of men, the person mentioned here decided that the discussion of women's pregnancy breakes and sexual freedoms and that the primary outcome for the sex - healthy committee, the right of the individual to make a decision about childbearing, and the importance of removing from the law all discrimination. Pregnancy violations, women's sexual freedoms, and the taking of all discrimination, especially to disabled persons, are, in my opinion, the most important theme of the continuation of this discussion, and at a general review of the law on this case group that I consider very important. That's what I like to say. The health minister that it is obvious that legislation needs to be revised, since it has not changed for more than 40 years, as well as above. Ministers who can be found in a statement from the Ministry of Health where he said, by permission of the President: The society is transformed, the attitude of others and the predetermineism that stands up to the women's self - determination right to cleaning should be history. My aim in this special discussion is to get the highest position. Department of Health for several aspects and suggestions presented in the report by the Committee. Bow them even. that the number of times that a minister sees that will be around the total legal review, whether a minister will fully agree with the proposals of the committee, or whether he objects to any of the suggestions it presents, and if so, any proposals made by the Committee minister may be opposed. The committee plays even. to allow women to make their own decision regarding pregnancy unless medically indicated, in contrast to the current situation where a woman's request for an abortion requires medical approval and social advice or two physicians, as appropriate. It is also suggested that the decision to have an abortion at week 16 of pregnancy is submitted to the woman's autoimmunity to request pregnancy break up until the 22nd week of pregnancy, i.e. until the embryo has developed viable development. Counting that this arrangement will improve, a minister asks whether he will change the law in accordance with these suggestions made by the Committee. The committee also suggests reducing the age limit established for sterilization procedures, from 25 to 18 years, according to law and individual self - determination rights. I'm going to ask a minister if he's following that position of the Committee. Madam President. My main focus in these discussions, however, turns to delinquency of the law on the basis of disability. In this regard, I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that existing legislation violates and underestimates the sexual freedom of disabled women in various ways, and I missed the clearer application of the report by the Committee. However, the Commission suggests to remove the repugnant and illegal laws found in existing legislation that a legal guardian can decide on the behalf of a legal person to have a sterilization because of the argument that he is, by permission of a president, probably unable to acknowledge the consequences of the operation due to mental illness, deep intelligence, or other psychiatric disorders. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister if he intends to remove these almost sexual reform policies from the law. Another example of gross discrimination against disabled persons is found in 2 paragraph 13. current law, but it says, by permission of the President: A woman with a mental disorder, a highly intelligent or for other reasons unable to recognize the need for the operation is permitted to perform the procedure according to the legal application. This law includes a clear violation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people who face sexual freedoms of the disabled as well as of the treaties of the agreement. It should also be noted that a special U.S. ambassador to torture has repeatedly declared that sterilization procedures and abortions carried out against individuals' will or without an informed consent include torture. That's why I'm asking the highest. Finally, a health minister will consider to see that this law is taken away from the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u35	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager for this special discussion, for her fine speech and excellent questions. This spring will be 42 years ago by law No. 25/1975, sex and pregnancy counselling and instruction, abortion and sterilization procedures, were adopted here at the General Assembly, and there have been no material changes in the law since they were approved. In March 2016 a health minister appointed, i.e. My predecessor, a committee designed to work for a full reexamination of law No. 25/1975, the report was presented and published in February. where the possibility was opened for sending comments to the report. The report suggests adjustments. The committee specifically considered the development of human rights in an effort to increase self - control. Then I'm talking about the right person to make decisions for himself that are reflected in a number of international contracts and judgments; many things have been added and approved in that regard, perhaps saying itself, many things that we Iceland has been able to achieve since the administration of the law in 1975. In this context, there is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Those who were recently validated in this country. It puts emphasis on self - custody of those with disability. It contains the provision for disabled persons to have the rights of others, to make their own decisions, and to respect their physical and spiritual privacy. That's in harmony with what you're talking about. The senator spoke in his talk. In view of this development, the committee agreed that the need to make changes in the law of No. 25/1975 with a view to ensuring and highlighting the right of each individual to self - custody over his or her own body as well as the right of each individual to make a decision about childbearing. The committee agreed that a new law would need to reflect a new view of women's rights and self - custody, taking into account women's right to make a decision about their future, health, and body, with advice and help from professional workers if necessary. The sole way to achieve that goal was by the committee to have access to safe abortion had to be expedient until the appointed time. The changes made by the committee are, to a large extent, rooted in experience with the current law, the social changes that have occurred in recent decades, the technological evolution of medical science, and the ideological emphasis on sex health. Of course, the committee also considered the situation in other lands, neighbors, and countries where we live. The report published in February of this article also points to the proposal to revise the law. The next step is to process the Commission proposal and set up a bill for new legislation. It can be assumed that a bill can be submitted to the spring council of 2018. It is my wish as Minister to follow the good advice of the Committee that the report presents, that the law needs to be revised, that much of the need to build on or imitate the proposals of the committee are needed. It was also part of the preparation of such legislation to publish a report to the Committee, calling for comments on the report and the suggestions presented in the report, saying the museum, let's say, in the preparatory work to prepare new legislation, which would be introduced before it was submitted to the Council and passed through standard therapy. I think it's very important that this kind of work is done in the greatest consultation with the public, especially in the case of such a class that applies to all of us, but especially to half of the people of the country who are women. I give special attention to the point as a dog. A senator points out regarding the self - determination rights of the disabled. I support the Commission's motion that the age limit is reduced from 25 years to 18, simply in line with the general age of self - control in these matters as well as in others. I hope I'm a little bit more familiar with my final talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u36	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this tremendously important discussion, and in the beginning of my speech, I want to say that the self - determination rights of every woman over her own body are fundamental, including whether and when a woman chooses to have children. This is not the case in current legislation. That's what needs to be changed. I welcome the report of a 1975 work group that has been referred to here at a total review of the law. I feel that there are well - thought - out opinions and suggestions made there are clear and well - supported. Then I would especially like to rejoice that the committee makes it clear that she had a United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people in regard to her work. That's exactly how all cases have to be won, because that's when the deal works. Therefore, the timelines for pregnancy discontinuation are associated with a completely free choice until week 22 and with an alternative choice set up by the Committee on Decision Committee after week 16. In connection with that, because there is going to be a big debate over this at both the Council and in the community, I would like to direct it to the highest level. Health Minister to ask if health authorities have developed policies relating to foster care and embryo-foetal analysis. What is the goal of such screening? We need to be calm when we discuss the whole matter. Finally, I want to reiterate it, saying that it is the woman's self - determination right over her own body, which is the principle and should be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u37	Madam President. Thank you for the discussion. I want to make the last words. paritaprevir To my first words, the Árnadóttir Þóra - year - old daughter, the importance of women's self - determination rights. There is always compelling reason to discuss the self - determination of women, the sexual freedom of women. The prejudices throughout history have been exasperated, as we know. If we run through a story like that. This legislator clearly shows that this is the case, as it often does to women and other groups defined as inferior in some way. It is, therefore, a special reason to rejoice that in this summary review of total law on this matter, the main thread is to reflect a new view of women's rights and autonomy and that women have the right to make a decision about their own body and their own future. A fundamental change is that it is the woman herself, not named experts or individual experts who know more about her life or circumstances than she does. For this reason, I would like to talk a little about prejudice and what it is to control my own body. We're supposed to start at the beginning. Hence, it is happy that conversation about sex and sex freedom is taken particularly for consideration. It was suggested that this should be discussed in a blunt and unbiased manner. I want to agree with that. I will come back here to review the other aspects of this review. But I'd like to end up saying that I took a book on women's sexual fantasies a few years ago, which was followed by a series of prejudices about how women should behave. [[The president calls.]] For example, there was one story about one woman having a sexual fantasy about having a baby, which illustrates what we are dealing with here. [[The president calls.]] It's all the same hurt. [[The president calls.]] We should look at it the same way. I'll come back to finish my business.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u38	A respectable president. I want, like the others here, to thank you very much for this discussion and for the minister's answers to the initial inquiries. Even if the original - language decision has been made to settle the issue in a practical way, I would like to note that there are a number of practical suggestions in the group that we may not have specifically discussed here in this discussion, which is involved in sex health, which is just about the importance of looking out for the sexual rights of women and those who are in the rights of disabled people. The first thing I believe is the suggestions that focus on the sexual health of people in this country, especially young people. These suggestions suggest that hormonal contraceptives will be free of charge for girls under 20 years of age and that they too will be free of charge for women who have their feet in the community, as well as that condoms will be free of charge in high schools. An interesting study in Sweden showed that the children of women using hormonal contraceptives, the pill, are simply healthier. They are heavier when they are born, and it works out better for them and their mothers. However, these suggestions contain a controversial point. This may be the most controversial issue that has been discussed in general with the Committee's proposals, especially in extending the period allowed for a woman to have a pregnancy break or abortion until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. In view of the fact that the committee emphasizes the importance of removing all discrimination from disabled persons whom I am completely willing to accept, I feel very strongly that the council listens to the comments made by the health groups of disabled persons, including indications received by the Committee that this change could focus primarily on the disabled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u39	Mr. President. Adolescent, huh? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir here brings up an deserved attention to the subject and motion of a committee that has discussed a total review of law No. 25/1975. The committee gives careful work and very well - thought - out suggestions that look for progress and improvement in a very important field. Women's self - determination right is a red thread and a guide in the suggestions, which, of course, makes them a special cause for rejoicing. One of the factors that the Committee considers is sex education and suggests that there will be an assessment of sexual education in basic and higher schools of the country. Sexual education is essential to promoting sexual health in a broad sense. It is important to remember that sexual health is not just about physical factors and the biology of sex. It is no less about communication, expression, and free will to engage in sex or refuse to do so. As a result, these features need to be integrated in the instruction given to young people. Increased education on sexual morality, sexual freedom, and normal communication must be emphasized where there is a fundamental basis for approval. In addition, it is appropriate to promote the teaching of popular gender, which deals with the position of the sexes in society and increases understanding the need for equality. This type of sex education is essential that health and education authorities come together to develop and implement, as will best be chosen at all levels of education. It is not enough to prepare good teaching material and instruction for teachers. It is important to educate, re - educated teachers, and others who are carrying out this vital task.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u40	Mr. President. In current legislation, a break in the exit period is prohibited. To get permission, a woman needs to apply, do interviews, and two doctors or doctors and sociologists to write a paper on the subject before it is approved. It is, in fact, a stunning idea that it is not a woman who chooses to have a child for nine months and to feed with all the inconveniences and consequences it can bring to the individual. This involves self - depravity, which does not have a parallel. We'd, for example. Do not force a person to give up an organ, although it was known that he saved another person's life. 93.8% of all cases of pregnancy discontinuation e.g. A place before the 12th week of pregnancy. Then there is no fetus. This is a cell cluster that becomes an embryo but is not an embryo. It is more likely that he will die without intervention but may become an abortion between 12 and 14 weeks. The word abortion is just a factor, misleading, and even wrong. It may reveal insensitiveness, which in the worst cases has little more than feelings of guilt for a woman. It is, therefore, only necessary to change the term from an abortion to a break in pregnancy. On Facebook, I saw, for example. Erna Magnúsdóttir notes that there are women who are fertile enough to make birth control work badly. They are often prejudiced because they have to break down pregnancy repeatedly. Madam President. The report that is the basis for the discussion here is informative, well done, and I believe that it should be taken into account by the Generals to take into account the development of laws and actions that further support women's self - determination rights. Eventually, sex instruction needs to be developed and men must be taught to be more responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u41	It is in the spirit of the discussion that the president is Madame.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u42	A respectable president. With the permission of the President, I'd like to quote from 216 gr. general penal law: A man who kills his fetus will be imprisoned for up to 2 years. If there is a particularly rich lawsuit, punishment may be decided. If 2 years have passed since the offense was committed, a case should not be appealed. An unusable experiment is penalized. Anyone who agrees with her mother kills her fetus or gives her help to abortion will be imprisoned for up to 4 years. In general penal law, abortion is a crime. We have not yet taken the step of removing the law and removing it from the general law of justice. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson Einar said that the definition of the fetus was that up to week 12 or 16 it was just a strip of cells. In a paper with a bill to the general penal law of 1940, it is about 216. ... withauthority of the President's permission: But intrauterine conditions, in the case of fertilisation, have begun. We have out - of - date laws when it comes to punishment and ideas about right and wrong when it comes to the sexual freedom of women and people. It is reflected in a general practice of penalties, laws that are far too old. Much of this code is based on the 19th century law, the specific general law of penalties, and the general. I feel very serious when we are confronted with the city's reading the general penalties of its country and seeing that abortion is actually forbidden, that it warned against prison. The only changes that have occurred in this monasteries are from 1998 when the survival of ◯ was canceled. A respectable president. It is time for us to eliminate this article as soon as possible. I think that the law on abortion and sex health is enough. [[The president calls.]] This is a small operation that could be performed at once and beyond the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager for this special discussion. I'd like to look at the report and the discussion following it as equal issues, including important equality issues. I would like to quote the words of Dr. Vilmundur Jónsson, a surgeon in 1934, when he said, amazingly but true, in 1934, by permission of presidents: ▪ For my part, I could even agree with the abortion legislation that they demand, the longest of which they want to go, and let the most women of themselves, whether they want to become mothers or not. Much of this report needs not only a discussion in this conference room and within the medical system but also in the general community. One thing I think is very important is a debate about sex health. How important it is that we recognize the right to sexual health and to a person's physical health, which in human language really means the right to enjoy sex! I believe we should also view the discussion of sex health issues as a preventive measure. The report says, with the permission of a president: When it comes to sex, the individual can enjoy personal life. He has self - control, integrity, and security with regard to his own body. He has the freedom to communicate sexually with others and can freely express his sexual feelings. He is entitled to a comprehensive sexual education. At the same time, he has the potential to make decisions about pregnancy and its limitations. He has access to information based on experience and access to sex - health services I'll come in more after this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u44	A respectable president. First, I'd like to welcome the discussion of a work group report on a total legal review. 25/1975 and want to make up the panel of abortions performed in disabled individuals. A recent particularly difficult report by presidents stated: "A lot of women who were saved in a Kopavog bin and the disabled have had a sterilization procedure in their lifetime. It is also shown in this careful report, paragraph 18. The 1938 law is a requirement to perform a sterilization procedure. These conditions are in place if the person is over 25 years of age but is due to mental illness, severe mental deficiency, or other mental disorders is permanently unable to recognize the consequences of the procedure, it is permitted to grant permission for surgery according to an application by a specific legal attorney. In this report, it is now stated that from 1938 to1975, there were a total of 59 sterilization applications not signed by those who underwent the operation. It says: The majority of non-fertilizing applications were under 20 years of age. In most of these cases, it was the parent of the person who signed, but also such applications were signed by siblings or other legal candidates, guardians, Children's Committees, or appointed officers. It was thought that in the majority of the applications for the operation of people because of mental neglect or insanity, the initiative might not have originated with the person himself. Now, since 1975, we do not have complete information on the number of measures performed in those who suffer from disability or mental neglect. [[The president calls.]] I'll ask for an answer from the highest. A minister whether he will use the freedom of women to control their own bodies also means freedom from disabled women to make decisions that require self - control. [[The president calls.]] And then, I'm sorry, Mr. President, if there will be an investigation to see if sterilization procedures have been carried out after 1975 with uninformed consent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u45	The president must ask everyone to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u46	Mr. President. When I finished here, I was talking about prejudice and self - determination because it's going to be a lot together and I think it's very important that we put it in this context. This too seems to be the case, and it is very important that sex education needs to be blunt and honest, and it is even spoken of high - level teaching methods, which I don't know what it means but certainly sounds fun. In any case, it is something we must talk about with this because it is a disgrace to the sexual behavior of women. This is one of the things that have sustained women through the centuries. It is our mission to ensure that they do not have to bring it into the next centuries. With the suggestions itself, I think it's especially time to celebrate with the beginning and the foundation, where it all comes from. So it is particularly interesting to wonder about such ideas as this: Free condoms in high school. Of course, if you think about money in that context, it is interesting that what we now call an abortion is brought down by the state on such a great scale while contraception is less important. We are the northern countries that pay no attention to the issues that can undoubtedly be revised. Regarding the duration, I became a little skempt first about how large this frame was, but I think the press is a good one. I want to say, in general, I'm not very impressed that when we have to overcome prejudice, we change our words instead of merely trying to overcome prejudice. On the other hand, I feel that the reason for changing an abortion to a pregnancy violation is well - supported in the report and therefore do not oppose it. Other than that, I thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u47	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Ævarsdóttir Övarsdóttir for starting this important discussion and the highest. Minister for very detailed answers he gave here. As has been observed among other people. The red thread and the fundamentals presented in this report of women's self - determination rights are that they have self - determination. I'd also like to say that we're discussing matters here that many people have very conflicting views on. We even saw it. ... ofa news transfer when the report had been presented in February, to remind me. So I think it's a very good decision at the highest level. The minister of health to open it for presentation, that people can have conversation and discussions about it, because, as I said, opinions are very different. I'd like to welcome what is stated in the report that there is no improvement in quality, e.g. sex education in schools and increasing the ongoing education of teachers who handle these matters, since that includes us. to discuss the issues and concerns among our young ones is good and that they have knowledge that contributes to the increased sexual health of this important group in our good society. Then there are points that you know are very conflicting opinions about, for example. birth control for young people without consulting their parents and extending more time to break your pregnancy. But I am deeply glad that this report has come out and the red strand through it, which is the women's self - determination right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u48	Mr. President. Women should be in control of their own body. Women's self - determination rights should not fall prey to unnecessary predestination. Our legislation is to reflect this fundamental point, as the committee suggests in its proposals. Any break or break in pregnancy, as the committee suggests, the use of abortion, is appropriate only for the woman's decision. The use of words is important when discussing these matters and the onset of pregnancy breakes is neutral and much better than abortion. Here it should be said that a new view of women's rights and self - custody is primarily a matter of legal action. Women should have a clear right to make a decision about their own body and future, and this requires access to safe and unavoidable pregnancy break unless certain and urgent medical conditions are in place. The decision to interrupt pregnancy is not minor. There may be many reasons for this. The arrangement we live in today's world that special ruling committees come to the fore when a woman wants to break her pregnancy is contrary to the view of women's authority to make a personal decision about her own body. That's a long time to change. It is not in harmony with today's liberal attitude that women need to justify their decision to a committee that often does not know the circumstances and may have the opposite viewpoints and rights of the woman's choice. Thus, the proposal to bring down the decision - making committees is greatly improved. Finally, we have reason to thank those who make such suggestions for careful work and encourage the highest degree. A health minister to offer suggestions to the General Assembly that will take them into account abundantly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u49	A respectable president. We had quite a presentation on the welfare committee report. There's another thing that caught my particular attention that I think we should also discuss openly, and there's access to contraception and advice. The report noted that a certain community group has found it harder to approach and use contraception. These include teenage girls, women who live under difficult social and economic conditions, including women suffering from mental or mental disability. In view of the discussion of poverty, I think that these groups are especially to be considered. It is important that the quality of counselling and contraception should be emphasised. We should be aware that if contraceptive advice is of limited quality, women will stop using some forms of contraception which, of course, increase the risk of unplanned pregnancy and the risk of sexually transmitted disease. It is important that counseling be made by consultation and that a woman be consulted with adequate information so that she can make her own contraceptive decision herself. In particular, I welcome the proposal presented in the report, by permission of the President, that sexual health advice will be established within the office of a surgeon. Its role is to keep the group of litigators in their sexual health. Also: The assessment of sex education will be conducted in basic and higher schools of the country. Adherence to sex - health programs is a major subject of sex education, making sure that it meets good principles before it is used for education. For the teachers and others in the schools of the country who attend the sex - education program, cheers on sexual health make sure that there are regular courses to teach. The advice on sexual health is that sex education can reach youths and young people who have fallen out of education. [[The president calls.]] Once again, groups that need special attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u50	A respectable president. I think it's been a good discussion, and a lot of good things that have come out of it. It's just like I killed earlier that this is a good report. It suggests things that are absolutely necessary, such as. Suggested sexual education and such suggestions. I find that there is good evidence to support the evacuation of the time-out of pregnancy. I support it, i.e. pregnancy breakes will be allowed to occur until the 22nd week or until the foetus is considered viable and that women are more than likely to have a decision unless medically indicated. However, pregnancy cessation practices should continue to occur as soon as possible and preferably before week 12. The fact is, 93.8% of cases agree with this. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir Sveriris's daughter says that we should not always change words for prejudice. I can agree on a few things about that, for example. Such beautiful words as an old man who suddenly became a disgrace, and men started using an older citizen, and now, at last, a much higher city. It's totally different. The practice of abortion is prejudice, which is 93.8% of cases that are actually wrong. So the other word is beautiful. I think that's a good idea of supporting that word use.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u51	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the interesting discussion that has developed here, thanking all of them for the reason. Councilmen who spoke up. Similarly, I'd like to rejoice that there will be a full reexamination for the year 2018 and welcome to the Supreme Court. Ministers to the good advice of the Committee. Then I'd like to know which side the Minister intends to establish new legislation. V.E.G. A minister feels that it is important that the transition be in agreement with all the people I take heart. But I ask if the review will be complete with the Minister's guardianship or if he intends to take it to the council, even to a tripolitical group of members. Otherwise, I may repeat two of my questions to the minister. I'm asking if a minister plans to take away the laws of the law is subject to sterilization of disabled individuals without their informed consent. Likewise, whether a minister intends to take away the law of law is subject to abortion on disabled women without their informed consent. In view of the time frame published by the minister, does the Minister not consider it a reason to eliminate these measures sooner, if not immediately, or interrupt in order to ensure that sterilization procedures as well as abortion will never be carried out without the informed consent and will of those involved? In view of why. paritaprevir Brynjólfsdóttir Björgjörðurfjörðurfjörður on the lack of information on the implementation of such measures, will the Minister get information on the extent and number of sterilization procedures as well as the number of abortions performed without an informed consent?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much for very good discussions, the first of many, I hope. To answer the questions that were addressed to me right away in the final talk. I feel that there is a better option for me to take some shorter baptism by removing the laws that take the self - determination of disabled women from them when it comes to sterilization. I have to say, as the majority feel more than tears, the information we've been given about sterilization procedures that have been made to be questioned so far. The situation of not knowing the details of each sterilization procedure followed in 1975 is very unhappy to me. I've only observed that information, but I'm not sure that it's available, just because there was a lack of registration during this period. But certainly I will continue to try to find out. I'd like to agree with most people if not all who have spoken up today that the women's self - determination rights are the basis for this work. It is not the work of one man who happens to be a health minister to make decisions on this important matter party. Therefore, I want the work and preparation of legislators to be as open as possible, that is by taking into account the work of the Committee, comments received, by the introduction of prospective legislation, and by calling for comments before coming to the council, etc. And especially in the light of history when it comes to the history of sterilizations that we have been experiencing over and over again, I think it is very important that we look forward to a human right to the complete rights of disabled people in this work. [[The president calls.]] - Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u53	A respectable president. I am grateful that I have the privilege of speaking to you today on this subject that concerns all of us and the highest. Minister for being here with us. Join us. Me and the Icelanders are a young nation, the youngest nation in all of our countries. In spite of this, however, none of the nations have been so eager to become a founder of aging - trade services as well as foreigners. To this day, the superfaith has been prominent in the fact that institutions are the best solution for most people. With regard to this inflexible, radical, and costly route, there are ever more doubts. Nearly 9% of senior citizens live in special institutions here and a quarter of those over 80. This is a higher proportion than the one used in our neighboring nations, which, in a far greater measure, activate a more varied and flexible strategy. Here, deep - seated civilization still thrives. Is the arrangement chosen by a new generation of older people the most? In the end, we need to be sure of all the loving care and care that we receive from our nursing staff and that our health fails. However, traditional institutions in which older people live for years are on the decline. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he will share this opinion with the majority of healthcare professionals. And to what extent has the cost of research been weighed against other options? In recent years, governments have taken note of these matters, but we are far behind our neighbors in important ways. I'm sure there are many reasons. Part of the problem is administrative. I mention two things, the jury consists of two ministers and a social service to the elderly is basically part of a rural society, but the health factor of the State. The responsibility is thus thrown onto a suspension, and the routes and solutions may not be effective and targeted. Very much. To some extent, a minister employs changes in this field? We are on the threshold of a new era. Large age groups are disappearing from retirement, enlightened, and educated persons who have many years to live, the vast majority of them having active participation in society, in good health, who want to function according to their ability and motivation. The entire young nation is growing older and, in the long run, is affecting all the functions of society. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this development really in his mind, and in what way is the matter being handled by the Ministry? Individuals older than 80 years will experience an increase in number, problems with dementia are a major challenge, changes in disease composition, new treatment options develop, looking up to changing expectations and expectations. The stage will increase with powerful groups of people with knowledge and opinions on their own dispositions, forming powerful pressure groups. It's all happening, older citizens are getting more aware, they're becoming more powerful. Demographic development is one way; there may not be plenty of work to be done in behalf of those who need multiple assistance. It is as likely that we will have a lack of labor in the near future, and it is unlikely that our family will continue to play the key role we have ever had. There are many challenges and opportunities, too. New solutions, new technologies, new methods, and new thinking can help us. The ministry is varied, and it needs to be. Today, it is fragile and has many hands. We need to improve the quality of the user agreements with the elderly themselves, while strengthening the framework for management, cross-cutting and training in the media and ensuring that most people in need are in full security. Older people want independence and have custody over their affairs as long as possible. They want to have access to a labour market on encouraging grounds. We agree on this in a word, but at a table there is nothing missing. The success of aging is a vital issue for all of us. We can do much to determine how to handle timely and preventive measures. Evidence of this occurred, including ... in a more recent analysis of the happiness and well - being of the elderly in Iceland, which was presented at the end of the year. In the United States, there is an integrated model and a means by which professional workers want to implement, a multiplicity of the elderly in cooperation with rural society, with the long-term and sustained goal of molding healthy communities. However, the cost of implementing the idea is likely to be cleaning. So I ask a minister if he will support such long - term thinking in cooperation with rural society by providing funds for such projects. A respectable president. In September, that's it. The joint committee of various stakeholders returned a report to the local welfare minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, known as Convention of Service to the Elderly until the following year, which includes 11 defined factors such as, for example, the following. The social security system, health benefits, the elderly's right to independent farms and autopilots, quality and quality of life, brain failure and rights. I finally let me ask the highest. Minister if the Ministry is working on the basis of this report and where the work is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u54	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for starting and calling for a discussion on this important subject that I am very interested in. I also want to thank him for a powerful, excellent talk that I think I can put my heart into words. I would like to do a lot of things my way of saying. A senator highlights and emphasizes. There is no doubt that visions and attitudes of old age have changed very much over the years and will continue to change over the years. Qualifications and expectations change that are reflected, including in the importance of making it possible for each individual to share actively in the community as long as possible. An older citizen today is not the same as an older citizen ten years ago, let alone an older citizen after five or ten years, it is a very high trend during this age, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator pointed out, on the ability of older citizens, but also our potential for service to senior citizens and for dealing with disease, as well as the ability to improve human health and help people to stay healthy longer and better. I consider that the cooperation and the collective assistance of the world are very important in this regard. We've been building a lot of homework as well as social services with senior citizens in the past few years, but we're still behind our neighboring countries in the process and need to do better. There are some people who are working toward the health of the elderly in Iceland and who come to serve in the elderly, such as labour. A senator pointed out. The seminar is linked to more services than mine, it is not only health but also social matters and a large part of the service is provided by local social services. I'm not sure that it is necessarily necessary to combine all of this with one government hat of aging services, but it is certainly necessary to coordinate the ministry more fully. This can be very well, and in many cases it is taking place with better cooperation between different institutions, different administrative points, etc. For the past few years, surgeon generals have been working to support communities in creating conditions that contribute to good health, well - being, and an increase in quality of life. The project is being done under the merits of community health. Twelve rural communities in the country have now signed a cooperative declaration to the surgeon's office of becoming a health - care provider. In these rural areas, 73% of the population lives. Health - based visits are made by health - care centers throughout the country. The population is generally 75 years of age and older. The purpose of these visits is to provide advice on how to maintain health care, to review safety and accident prevention, and to present the services available to older people. So I support the development of a brain. There is just one small example of how we can approach service to this age group, not just from dealing with sickness and health problems, but also by helping to build a healthy one. As soon as the world's services are strengthened and prevention is strengthened, it is also important to secure access to nurses and continue the building of nursing homes. We know that one of the problems of the Land Hospital is a so - called efflux problem, in which elderly people who are very ill and suffer from multiple disease cannot come home because they need a service and cannot get to a nursing home because of lack of space. We need and aim to move to the finish line, to speed up and expand the development of nursing homes at the same time that we increase daytime and home service. I'm sorry, but I'm not getting past my points and I'm seeing that my time is running out. But I hope I'm able to add a little bit to my final talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u55	Mr. President. As a nation, we're getting older. We need to take into account this when planning our community. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for this discussion, for a future and a future view is absolutely necessary. As shown in the introduction of a proverb, we need to stop at various locations as we discuss the benefits of older people and the circumstances of life. It was also reflected in the answer of the highest. Ministers, of course, for older people are no different from other people; they are not living in a box of some kind but are part of society. That is why there can be a number of discourses. I would like to spend time discussing housing and housing availability. It is so that about 10% of an apartment building today is available, and if the new buildings that are built are not being made available, they are looking for real trouble in the future. You see, access is not only about the ability of wheelchair users to get around but also about the fact that older people, e.g. ... witha walking aid, making it around and living at home. That's what's at the highest. A minister spoke of, coordinated, and collective assistance to the world. But it will always need a nursing home, too, because it is filled with people who will need more service and more security than they can live at home. This, however, is more expensive. Therefore, it is socially practical for those who are able to live in their homes to do so despite the fact that the body calls for greater aid. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's important to get to the top. Ministers have this factor, i.e. guards a building order when it comes to the affairs of older people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunsson for the discussion. It is true that a large group of well - informed, educated people are retiring but want to continue working. I have previously pointed to teachers from this discourse in comparable discussions, when the most experienced and often the best teachers stop teaching long before because of age. Professional life calls for an older citizen's job participation. In that light, the pay line of employment must be raised, as is written in the government covenant of Bjarni son of Benediktsson. The health and health of older citizens are in line with the advanced ideas of Dr. Guðlaugsson Godlson to replace the intense foundationization that many believe in in Iceland. Our friends in other parts of the North have emphasized health and health, global health and social services in homes where modern technology replaces institutions and rocks. Not that nursing homes have to be built in Iceland, but we have to look to others for health and health, since computer surveillance, water monitoring, electricity, movement blankets, can do a lot of good. A respectable president. Let's go with the elderly. They are experienced in aging and in their situation. Society's expectations to the elderly is that they will remain active citizens and contribute to the community they have built up and delivered to us. Everybody wants to grow old, but nobody's old. A respectable president. Let us do whatever we can to make the life of an older citizen a lifetime of contribution and joy to life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u57	President. The discussion of the urgent need for a vision in all possible issues continues. Now the focus is at founded services, selection options, and rehabilitation of senior citizens. The lack of a future policy in that category, as well as the rest of society, is a failure in itself and, to a large extent, the uncertainty of the situation we experience today, in which everything is somehow unformed and in loose air. Over the past few years, unwritten policy of the government seems to have been increasing the most expensive resources for older citizens, who are a medical facility. It has been shown that the need for the well - being of older citizens is that they can stay as long as possible in their own homes and that other means of living are available to those who cannot live independently and that the last resort is a nursing space, not just because of the cost of nursing but where nursing is more expensive than other solutions. What is more important than the cost is the fact that older citizens who enter these institutions no longer live in a financial state and even have to leave their mates. This must be the last possible option that people choose to take advantage of. The question is, Do we nurture people in such a way that they have some real choice? How about, for example. to support individuals and families in the country and to give them real opportunities to nurture elderly parents, sick friends, and neighbors, or to care for their children and to be present at those times and places in life that are important to people? I'm not saying this is a solution for everyone. I'm saying the option should be there. How would society today look if the real goal was to improve production and consumption in the name of the relentless growth of the economy? What would be the policy today if we were a government guided by a public interest system, a government with the courage and strength to shape a policy, e.g. In resource - related matters so that the richest nation in the world could show the respect that they, as all citizens of this country, deserve to be able to live a decent life but not have minimal service, limited human rights, and limited privacy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u58	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the UN S. of Brjánsson for putting this important matter on the program of the council. There are things to take, but I would like to focus on the affairs of queer older citizens, since older citizens can also be gay. Earlier this year the UN set up a '78 special team on the issues of this group. In the discussion that there was an ever greater need for professional knowledge in the affairs of queer elderly people, the organization became increasingly active. It also points out that in the recent work programme on the affairs of older citizens, there is no mention of gay people. The generation of queer people who fought here for the rights of this group, and especially for the credit that Iceland has for some time become a good word in the international field, and what is most worthy of it; for being in front of nations at the time of the rights of homosexuals, is now advanced in years. She's been standing in the line of fire, remembering the two times. It is more painful than tears if it is right within this group to be individuals whose feet are not difficult when it comes to a nursing home, where they lack knowledge and general understanding of their affairs. It is unacceptable for us as a community to have examples of older citizens simply going back into the closet to use well - known expressions, since they do not meet understanding in their new home. We also need to remember that in this generation homosexuality can still be a shy matter. And thanks to that generation, it's not today. These people may not all be prepared to go through old age again and again with trouble, fight for their rights, decent circumstances, and because their sexual tendencies have generally come with respect and understanding. A respectable president and a supreme president. Secretary of health. I encourage us and all those who come to the affairs of older citizens to give ear when a panel on the subject of gay older citizens begins with their instruction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u59	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Thomson for starting this important discussion and the highest. Healthcare Minister for responding and participating. That's right. That's right. The apocalyptic that now a group of the elderly are growing in our society. There will be very large groups within a few years belonging to the older citizens of this country. I think it is also true that the talk was given. The saying that this group has strong opinions about society, standards, and expectations may not be the same as it was some years ago. These are individuals who are very aware of their rights and possibilities and are very well aware of it. It is very important to ensure that older living conditions are suitable for them. Government policy has been that older people live as far away as possible at home. In recent years, local services have been built to care for this important matter, but more is needed, to strengthen the ministry, and to look to the means of well - being that is making room in this article today. But then the elderly are very sick when they enter a nursing home. The need for care is often very great. Thus, nursing homes in the country need to be looked forward to paying for nurses, not too many local residents today. It is more expensive and requires more care for every living room than it is for residence. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister: The 700 million approved for budgets in December have divided them and determined how money will be divided into a nursing home for building in space?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u60	Mr. President. Here is an important discussion of how we live in the lives of most people who have broken out of society. This is a service that was a good deal for the election, where all classes praised the marvelous structure they came into power. V.E.G. A health minister is the chief man of the seminary, and I once again try to hear how he intends the high - budget party. He is likely to realize that he has been funded for billions of dollars. Many rural communities are working very hard because of this. They are forced to take money from other important tasks in order to keep their business going, the financial resources that the State should pay. We're talking about schools, from disableds, sports and hobbies, culture and art. The result is worse quality of life for people and lower opportunities for rural society to attract and hold on to families that are vital to life. Now, a minister has previously come here in a public assembly and referred to a frame deal of 1.5 billion, made up of the manager of a nursing home and was the first step toward justice. So I don't feel like listening to the highest. A minister will mention it again. I want to know how this services will be accomplished by the government and when it will be done. For God's sake, the chief. Minister, don't testify again to the law on the Penitentiary Fund of the State, where the state took over part of the rural Penitentiary because a minister knows as well as I do that rural society has a very different way of managing the aging institutions. With the present system, the current underdevelopment, the differences are simply being made in rural areas. Surely a minister would not want the local community to give up the service, or would he not want the business to take on the old people? Now the government will simply have to find ways to secure funding in this country's goodness.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting a special discussion on this important subject and a good material background. There is no doubt that visions and attitudes of old age have changed very much in recent years. Qualifications and expectations change, which included is reflected in the importance of making it possible for each individual to share actively in the community as long as possible. It is more important to emphasize the opportunity to improve one's health and quality of life. This includes, for example, the following: having the opportunity to live in your own home and to have access to a home service according to your needs. In terms of prevention and the modulation of human health, and the efforts of surgeon generals, I think it is very important that rural society opposes human health, which is totally in harmony with the campaign and may, in effect, be said to be a continuation of that work. Some rural societies have already shaped public health policy. I have personally shared in such work with a rural society and are a major part of that task in the lives of older citizens. People's health is a greater term than prevention, reaching the whole community. The responsibility of rural society is to create a community for all inhabitants, regardless of whether age is legal or not, in which factors affecting the health and well - being of the local population are viewed as being handled in a number of important factors, such as. Just organization, environment, safety, motivation, cooperation and education. Farmers need to emphasize public health issues in older citizens' affairs. With strong preventive measures, quality of life can be improved and the effectiveness and health of citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u62	A respectable president. I want to be like the others and thank you for the discussion that I think is just a long time timely in view of how large and vast the group is, trying to reach out for it. During 2015, I had a thorough inquiry to the Minister of Health, asking about the annual cost of aging because of the people's growing years and how the Minister could see it. It showed that the number of nurses, just nurses, would need to be increased by about 1,100 until 2025. It was estimated that this would cost nearly 29 billion dollars back then. Clearly, much is under control. Not only, as this has been attributed to those who have spoken, the variety of services we would like to see. This does not change the need for much structure. In fact, it was missing, and I thought it was in this, a detailed policy on how and what to do. Today, there are some of the suggestions that have been made recently, and many are considered. All of them, of course, cost money. Therefore, it has to be done by the counsellors of both welfare halls, because it overlaps and hears them both, that we're going to see some policy here. As mentioned here, there are many societies. The metal party is heavy to them, and it is not acceptable to them that they pay with them at the expense of another service, which they should perform as soon as we speak in the other word that we want the service to be coordinated, want to activate and secure the home service, make a team, a multi-annual team, and all of that, it doesn't work. I also want to say that I don't feel that people today have any special options. It's just sick, and then there's nothing else but going to a nursing home, if there's a place, or being very weak at home and getting some minimal service, which, of course, is not acceptable. [[The president calls.]] You're supposed to have a choice. That's what I'd like to have when I get to that age.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u63	Mr. President. As a girl, I spent quite some time in Italy. Although we boast in many ways about a better welfare community, since then, I have often thought, if you allow yourself to be superior, that aging there seems to be better. There the elderly continue to have an important place within the family unit, thereby maintaining dignity as family heads with their own independent rights of existence. I don't know why the family type is different in this country, but our job is to make such a mess that the system is giving its senior citizens another kind of dignity. One of these is, as the original - language phrase mentioned, the importance of independence. It is important to have a self - determination over your life, over the type of service you need, over your income. Therefore, it is important that the government's policy is that pension age increases in stages so that the elderly can use their skills and experience by maintaining a flexible retirement will be a principle and a payment target for professional pensioners. But getting older often brings health problems. Hence, it is equally important that health and security regardless of economic and social status be the priority of the government. For example, consideration should be given to reducing the payment of individual health care providers, health care status as the patient's first stop, and special efforts will be made to shorten the time waiting for health care services. Increased weight will be added to the development of aging services, especially the nursing home and nursing facilities, and the increasing number of room collections will be done during daily training of the elderly and the waiting period will be reduced. True, the rights of the elderly have increased, but that is not the case. But there's still work to do to make sure that our little community's princes live here every day as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u64	A respectable president. Getting older is complicated. I had a word with a few of the highest. The voters for elections and they got stuck in my head two stories in particular. One was that after they retired, a couple decided to sell a cottage. In effect, their income in a insurance institution was cut short because their interest in the sale was taken as income. If they had only been so jealous of selling the cottage before they went to the pension, they would have had it in a bank book, and the money money money would have been reduced. It's a complicated one. Why does this happen differently after you're in your pension than before you go to your pension? Second of the highest. The voter spoke of her having had an apartment without charge until she left for her pension, but after that life became a bit more complicated and even needed. taking out a loan from the house for medication. In fact, it is more tragic than tears that during those years, there is a strange change that you can't continue to live in a similar way, even if you are in a good position to have a home without debt. There are other things very strange and unreasonable about this. Consider, for example, someone who has spent his entire life on a pension fund from the minimum of those who have been in a position never to pay in pension, even for some strange reason. The two people's pensions are the same. One who paid a pension fund all his life and who could otherwise have put it on a bank book and the other who would never pay a pension and eventually get the same pension. [[The president calls.]] There are a number of cases of a strange system problem that I think we need to do a very good look at. [[The president calls.]] Systems are complicated. It is very difficult to find out which rights we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u65	V.E.G. President. I want, like others, thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for the discussion and the highest. A minister for his answers, looking forward to hearing more from him in a brief period of time. I would like to interrupt and highlight some points that have already been presented in the discussion today, especially in the past. paritaprevir Theodóra Þorsteinsdóttir mentioned above the importance of local society's opposing public health policies. She mentioned some societies that have already gone that way. That's well, and I hope there's still more to follow. V.E.G. A minister here mentioned the health of communities that this assignment extended to 73% of the population. I am very happy about this because when such projects begin, they bring up a discussion and an increased awareness of the importance of our own personal responsibility, what we can do to protect our health, not just for a longer life, but for a better life while we are here on earth. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to cabinet. He spoke earlier about the emphasis on home service. A very good job has been conducted in the Elfish community regarding home service, which the community has taken the initiative and has largely cost. Premiere. A minister was interested in that assignment and used it to some extent. I'd like to ask the highest. the current minister whether he will follow up and possibly become the role model for other rural partners who want to go the same way. My time is running out. I'd like to finally ask you about the closing of Kumbaravogs. There is a great lack of nurses in the South, such as the highest. Minister knows. Very much. A minister uses the increase in the number of nurses in a new annual nursing home in order to meet the present needs? [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I want to criticize the schedule for shutdown of Kumbaravogs and the construction of a new nursing home at Seleucos, however, that there were no barriers to the development of a baby. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for participation in the discussion and what. Councilmen. The discussion has been very illuminating. This is a huge group of paintings we have here tore up lightly and that is close to all of us. It will be the end of most of us to become old people sooner or later. Sometimes I still have the feeling that those who carry the power do not calculate at all by living for themselves, that they will someday become old, sick and dependent on society to give them a quick hand, perhaps just a little finger. At times, I feel short - eyed, even indifferent, as if we were treating the elderly with disrespect. But we can get involved, and so let us. We have enough work to do, even volunteers, with the users themselves, the elderly. We need to promote any form of professional care. We need to make provision for the elderly and to increase the number of their habitats. We need to sharpen our mind, seek new ways, and be creative in that area. I just want to sharpen a few points to the highest level. Minister. There's a multiplicity in agricultural production and the autumn report on the 11 items. Where is it to be found and worked according to it? I'm going to the top. Ministers to become the person who breaks down and changes and makes new paths for the future development of aging services? Some Mover said that the problem of aging is not the result of an increase in the numbers of elderly people but of the imagination that we are unable to react in ways that we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much for a very good discussion. Here's what we got. Parliaments after members of the congregation bring a very important input and insight into the discussion and the seminary. There is now a proposal by the Ministry of Health for Health Care for Elderly Patients who were introduced during the days. Among the proposed factors, there is a growing emphasis on health care, prevention, and rehabilitation in order to improve health and reduce the need for premature institutions with related costs, but also with the resulting impact on the lives of individuals. It is easy to accept the focus of the project management, and they have a good harmony with the Government declaration of cooperation when it comes to the affairs of the elderly. Today, we are in a position to consult the suggestions of the Outfit. We published them and called after a discussion about the results and policy ideas. There are ambitious and practical suggestions that are important. These are good ideas that I think will be effective in furthering and improving service to the elderly. I can't answer all the questions that have been addressed to me, but I will do my best to be the one or at least one of those who can push things forward because the business of the senior citizens is certainly our business and they are developing very fast. It is important that we handle these matters in a rich agreement with the users or with older citizens themselves. It is possible for all to save themselves, whether young or old, to take care of themselves. We are to do our best to help people to stay healthy, to enjoy exercise, to enjoy good nutrition, to enjoy social benefits, etc., but we also need to make sure that we take away those who are healthy and who have health problems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to thank you very much for a great discussion and hope to repeat this game as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u68	V.E.G. President. On November 20 of last year, Iceland's Women's Association issued a decree. That's where Iceland's Women's Association will be scored to the highest level. Minister of health, new government, newly elected. Generals are making an effort to solve the crisis in which women may have to wait for up to three years to get to the pelvic floor surgery. The report states that 300 women are now waiting for the Women's Hospital procedures, but the measures to be considered are mainly due to bladder sigma, colon stenosis, uterine stenosis, and urinary incontinence. It seems that women who need measures like these may have been left out when money is given in the medical system. Iceland's female association points out that this is an indirect sexual discrimination. The announcement also says that not much imagination is needed to see how much effect this long wait has on women's quality of life. When the announcement came, we got what we needed. The members of Parliament formed the member of Parliament and another body of council proposals. Four panel members of the Council conclude to hide the highest order. Healthcare Minister to immediately initiate efforts to shorten a waiting list for measures in the female wards. We're gonna go for a second. Council members of the proposal also add to the importance of further strengthening health institutions in many lands and giving them assignments. For example, the National Institute of Health in the Western National Institutes of Women's Women, no doubt qualified to handle such tasks. A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of health has attacked a waiting list for replacement surgery, heart replacement surgery, eye stone surgery, and also female operations, and therefore I greatly rejoice. The Ministry of Health reports that the Landspians will care for all types of action under the campaign, the Akureyri Hospital performs all non-heart compression procedures and that the Western Health Organization is concerned with replacement operations. So I have to say, the highest. Even now, a health minister has answered largely the inquiry I made during the council on March 7 of the past. The request is: 1st Does a minister take the initiative to shorten a waiting list for an intervention in the Women's Department, as per a proposal to conspire to a short wait list in the Women's Schools? If so, how do the Minister intends to shorten the waiting list for action? 2. Will the secretary react to the decision made by the Icelandic Women's Association on the importance of starting an effort to shorten a waiting list and increase the number of women's activities? 3. Does a minister think that it is possible to use empty operating rooms and medical space in the country to increase measures in the female wards? But I would like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister, however many operations to take in accordance with the action that has been triggered. How many measures is this year planned? Should waiting for this action be reduced to 90 days of reference?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u69	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir has addressed to me a verbal request for action in the Women's Department. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The starter for raising a case and asking for these important aspects of health care. Like what? At the end of his speech, the senator is asked first if a minister thinks it is proper to put up an effort to shorten a waiting list for measures in the Women's Houses and refer to a Senate resolution proposal for a shortened waiting list in the Women's Houses, and if so, then, when a minister plans to shorten a waiting list for action. Then again, whether or not we intend to respond to Iceland's Women's Association's resolution on the importance of starting an effort to shorten a waiting list and to increase the number of women's activities. Like what? The senator pointed out that this question has now been answered. I agree with what. The head starter and the Iceland Women's Association for waiting hours for women's pelvic organ systems to take too long. This must have a significant effect on their quality of life. As we have seen, I immediately declare that I want to do my best to shorten this waiting period for action and make it a significant shortcut. Therefore, the actions that were specifically set in a so - called waiting list campaign are those actions, i.e. campaigning with special funding from the Council to shorten a waiting list. It was decided that the campaign continued to reach the year 2016◯2018 with an increase in action of 840 billion. K. Total. The main objective of the campaign is to shorten the wait for three months or 90 days at the time of the campaign, while the surgeon's office considers that waiting period to be acceptable. It is designed to achieve the target by increasing manpower, by building facilities, by buying equipment and using the use of high-real capacity where it is available. In part, we will also use the experiences of last year by encouraging the land hospital, which is understandable to the campaign and other clinics, including the rest of the medical community. The New World Health Organization at Avéri and the Akureyri Hospital, for more cooperation and even for the implementation of other hospitals in cooperation with such clinics as possible to make better use of both facilities and human beings, as well as to extend services to the local community. A summary published by the surgeon's office on March 10th. it is made clear that the campaign in 2016 provided significant results in a shortening list of measures that were then highlighted. In the preparation of the campaign now 2017, the counseling of the surgeon's office was decided to continue working specifically to shorten the list of the same four measures: intraoperative lens replacement surgery, as well as coronary angiography, as well as increasing the number of pelvic organization procedures in women and hysterectomy procedures. According to a co-registered national surgeon's office, 278 women are currently on the waiting list for selected pelvic organ systems. 75% of them have waited longer than 90 days to be considered unacceptable. However, from February 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017, a total of 512 operations were made in the Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, and the Western Health Organization. After hysterectomy, 195 women wait and 62% of them have waited longer than 90 days. Combined measures within the same centres of the above mentioned period, i.e. From February 2016 to January 31, 2017, there were 399 operations. By this effort we are about to begin right now, we hope that the wait period for women should be within acceptable limits before the end of the campaign. I don't know if it's next before the end of the year, but we're hoping at least to. Third, and I'll try to speak very fast, it is asked if a minister thinks it is possible to use empty operating rooms and medical space. I've already answered some of that. We recommend such joint participation in land hospitals and other health institutions to the six health institutions that work outside the capital area to make better use of the resources, equipment, and housing and get closer to the patients where they live. [[The president calls.]] My hopes are high in this effort, and I may be able to introduce them in a second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u70	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister may be aware that the birth departments, especially the care and follow - up of the country's territory, are in most places insignificant and absent. A reduction in the number of health care professionals in the region is a fact. Does a minister have any intention of improving access to nonmedical services in the scattered regions of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for calling attention to this very important matter. You, too, the highest. Minister for a very clear and clear review. It's good to hear that a minister is interested in the matter and wants to do better. I'd like to add a little bit to the third question why. A senator for the use of empty operating rooms and hospital fliers in the country. I hear a minister is very open to that possibility, i.e. to use the so - called Kraga Hospital more and even more institutions that have a position to offer. So I have become quite optimistic, then, that two unused operating rooms at the Southnesian Medical Institute will soon be used, whether during operations in the Women's Centers or other types of operations. The rooms are unused, have been available for eight years, equipped with perfect equipment, and ready to use anything that is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u72	Mr. President. I'd like to approach this discussion and this query from a slightly different point of view. It has to do with my opinion of a question as a what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was present in an unsupervised period of inquiry earlier today, on the increase in cost to gynaecologists, and in a special discussion of women's pregnancy breakdown and sexual freedom. Many of the procedures involved in the inquiry are here because there are women who carry and feed children. That's why I'd like to direct it to the highest level. Health Minister that he examines the status of women in general when it comes to access to the health system, because I suspect that women are held there and that women are often in a very bad position, as in so many other areas of society. Of course, such adjustments need to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u73	Mr. President. I just want to come in and thank you. The foreman for her. Once health institutions were united, it is of great importance to use medical beds that are widely used, as well as transportation. I find that since health institutions have been combined, they just say, as in Western Europe, transport between these parts of the country is not okay. I'm also looking at the flights in case of medical flights. It's all under, it's possible to use a medical flight. We talked here during the days about Alexander's airport, that he was ready for use when needed. So to speak, more airports, e.g. Fleet airport. All of this needs to be settled. It is very important that this group of subjects be viewed collectively when it comes to health care and health care matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u74	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for very detailed answers. I want to thank you too. Congress members who participated in this discussion for the participation. It's true what's been observed here, including dose should be administered at the highest level. A health minister, that has been too long a waiting period for such procedures. In my conversations with professionals in this article, professional people have precisely repeated that such measures have been out of control when previous conflicts have been under attack to shorten a waiting list in the health system. I'm really glad they're involved in the campaign. I'd also like to say that in a question that I asked for why. In the last term, the General Assembly said that the Women's Department of Western Health on Aranesp would be very powerful in performing the procedures we address here and that if you did so, you would actually be out of control with the human resources and facilities. I really hope that we will succeed as soon as possible to shorten that waiting time. At the end, I would like to mention what was mentioned earlier and earlier today about a relative increase in visits to gynecologists. At least there was a suggestion. Congress for a relative increase in the rise to those who need to visit gynecologists, and I pray to the highest degree. A health minister to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u75	A respectable president. To answer a question quickly as a question. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir pointed to me in his last talk, but when it comes to the expense change, it is better to see how a new system is useful to different groups because it is certainly moving to expense with emphasis on major users and children, the elderly, and the desperate. I think we'll look into the shades on how that change affects us. I would like to thank again for a good question and good comments. Councilmen have come with us. I'd like to answer that question. paritaprevir Gunnar I. Guðmundsson to see if I support the improvement in access to health care, medical services other than medical treatment in the country. Other members of the council felt similarly. The answer is yes, I do. There is a problem in many parts of the country, even though these positions are financed. That problem is not easy to solve, but we should not give up, and we need to improve our ministry. In some ways, we may need to do this with increased cooperation between institutions and even territories, but then we should also be afraid to do so. I agree that the Women's Department of Health at West England on Aranesp is strong and should be used. We are also required to use operating rooms on Southnes and elsewhere. They are often used, not because of lack of facilities, but because of lack of specialists, both doctors and nurses, so cooperation may be a password again. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u76	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in our debates, why? The members of the Parliament are an arrangement for our health and health matters during the course of this council. On January 31, I spoke up as the first official of the case. and there has been material progress within the years. General welfare committee. According to the proposal, it is suggested to the highest level. HCPs working on the National Health Programme for Iceland and as suggested, the healthcare programme should be performed in consultation with healthcare professionals in the medical profession, as this is the most familiar subject in this article. The geographical factors such as transport and distance between communities should also be taken into account, which, in our opinion, is very important, because today there are health institutions in this country that care for whole countries, and often a long and difficult way to go between institutions. The proposal should also take into account the population development of health institutions, populations of age, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of travel sites, and the country's home, to name something. At the same time, the strategy will be considered to see if parishes are involved in making use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reducing the pressures of land hospitals. This medical programme would be submitted accordingly. Council of December 2017. A respectable president. As mentioned in my talk to the outset, our proposal went wrong. Councilmen in the pursuit of material pursuits at the turn of the day. The welfare committee by the end of January. The implementation of the committee has included it has already been reported that the health care programme is at the highest level. Secretary of health. However, criticism was made that this plan was not at the U.S. Constitution. Now, that there would have been insufficient consultation with health professionals in our field, we would have had a great need, and it would be important to look to the factors in the suggestion I was reading before the procedure was made by the health care provider. Knowing the ultimate stand is vital to the progress of the situation. A health minister is available for this matter, so I asked for this inquiry and asked the highest degree. Healthcare Minister the following questions: 1st Does he feel that he needs a health plan for the country, as per the Parliament's decree? Congress members of the Organization for Health Care Programme? 2. Tells you the highest. Ministers right to view geographic factors due to distances between communities, urban development in health institutions, population ages, medical vehicles location, hospital transportation access, number of tourist facilities, and summer settlements in the process of health care? 3. What's your position? A health minister to use a medical facility in the country, thereby reducing the pressures of a land hospital? 4. Tells you the highest. Ministers are important for consultation with health-care professionals in the preparation of the programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and celebrate it. During the past few years, the importance of health care and the importance of improving - sometimes made such big words as restoration or at least putting much energy into health services, which in many ways have been difficult after the collapse and in the late years, but also with new challenges caused by the nation's aging, the growth of the population, the increase in tourism, and other factors. There is all the evidence that health care and health care are at hand. I rejoice and have previously told it in this chair that I believe it is a privilege to work in a lawsuit, where there is a fairly clear, cross-cutting, cross-controvertial wish to do well. Hv. A senator will point to me four questions I try to answer. First, it is asked if a minister is in line with the need for a health plan for the country, as shown by the applicant's decision on the health program. The simple answer is yes, I think health policy is needed for the country. This is made clear in the government's declaration of policy, which says, by permission of the president: A health policy that is compatible and trusted by health care, improved human health, and contributes to the health of the people of the country. Even though it was. A senator uses the word health - care program. I think we use the terms health policy and health - care programs on the same part. For example, a member of the body of elders is referred to in many areas as a health policy. That's why I'm going to allow myself to use the term health policy. It is important that health - care procedures, not only direct health care, also consider prevention in order to prevent disease development, to build up health, and to have the whole community involved in this work. It's not just the work of experts. We have already begun to consider the preparation of that work at the Ministry. Like what? A senator mentioned work at the Ministry during my prehuman existence. I've sometimes talked about me and my Department of Health working according to policy from the drawers, where we'd like to use the work done but maybe not work enough. But we also place great emphasis on cooperation and consultation. Work is often made up of great collaboration and cooperation. Then they ask why. A member of the Parliament, whether the minister of the medical community, considers geographic factors, transportation, distances between communities, population development, health - care facilities, age combinations of inhabitants, medical equipment, hospital access to hospital flights, number of tourist facilities, summer homes, etc. if you are a health care professional. I think it's very important to have all those factors in mind. Not only are we not going to create new health care facilities and throw their already existing ones, but our main weaknesses need to be identified. Should all groups receive adequate service and the quality of the ministry be performed in all cases? Many times I think that we perform a service at a very high and expensive level of service that makes it more difficult for us to give the service at less and less simple, as through the medical profession. It is also important that we make use of the funds we have, so that when necessary, all of us will have the opportunity to serve in such a way that there will be no excessive waiting. A third question is, What is the minister's position in order to use the rest of the land's medical space, thus reducing the pressures of land hospitals? As it has been noted earlier in our discussion today, I feel that making use of everything that looks forward to progress will help us to make the best use of human resources, equipment, and housing we have. This is one of the factors that we have often discussed with hospitals that they have a good partnership with one another. I have stressed that the Akureyri Hospital and the National Hospital are in good cooperation with health institutions, with the goal of making the best use of human resources and investments. In fact, I have suggested that the directors of the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri arrange for a regular meeting with health - care directors to support it. [[The president calls.]] Then we ask, " Do I feel that it is important to consult with health - care professionals? ' I answer again and again that I think it is very important, and I may find it easier to do so afterwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u78	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion, and I'm celebrating the answers. Minister. I've known him for a long time and with a good one, but he doesn't think he's super-manner of his day in the seat of a minister who has developed a health plan or policy for the Icelandic people, otherwise. But I rejoice at what can be read from the very best words. Ministers, to start working on it, and even more so, the use of the work that has been done before should be used. I think it's often been a bit of a problem when new gentlemen come into the chairs that then they want to make their mark on the jury, but I'm glad it's all here to come up from the drawers and be in cooperation and consultation. I'm the highest. A health minister to see if it was not right to have even a cross - line consultation and cooperation in the process and even before, but often in the process, we can all work together on this important matter group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u79	A respectable president. There are many things about health care. What I have to say may be on the list, as in the preceding discussion. I'd like to sneeze on a few things. This includes the location of ambulances and professionals between health institutions, where there are multi-specific tourist attractions, such as In the scare. Now we know what this will be like this summer. It is the opinion of everyone involved that this is one of the things that must be very carefully planned, one of the automotive vehicles, where the inaccessible shifts under extreme stress are inaccessible. Something else that really interests me is this specialized aging hospital, Landachot, with a very large number of functions. There's intense pressure on departments. When going into this field of health care, a careful consideration of what to do and what not to do is needed. That's where I even want to. Reminds us that the charity department there was laid down and only part of it moved to Kopavog. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the things that need very careful attention to the next medical programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u80	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister again and again for very clear answers. You're right. You're right. One health minister said, he said something about the importance of improving health care in the country and the importance of giving. That's exactly what we're doing. Company senators made preparations, including the rest of the group, to watch. to refer to a surgeon's office who spoke of the importance of maintaining a health policy or plan in order to manage the budget and this procedure within the medical profession so that we could make better use of the funds we have, and then we could begin to add to the lawsuit as necessary. For what? At the same time, a health - care committee has made clear the process of working within the medical system that requires better attention to health care professionals, it may be a way or a step to settle, that we could put our fingers on the project. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of health whether in his opinion it might help the progress of this concierge on our part. The senators of the Company said that we would refer the schedule to the work within the Ministry. Minister, and it could be the highest. The minister looked to the subject when the suggestion is discussed. Because much has been discussed with the committee that it is important to speed up this work, I would like to ask if it is the highest. The health minister is ready to inform us. A full conference on progress before a summer break.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u81	Madam President. Yeah, I just want to say the word. A senator on the importance of this work. There is much to care for. I think it might be a great idea to point out a suggestion. A senator and what is behind her to minister into work because I think we are really so strict about talking about the same thing. I also stress - just beginning when I finished my appointment earlier - talking about the conversation with the professional. That's very important to me. I think it is as important that we make good progress with those who enjoy the ministry, i.e. patients, that they also have the opportunity to influence policy, since hosts of the ministry, i.e. The angle of hosts and those who accept the ministry do not always have the same perspective when it comes to hosts and consumers and can have a different perspective on what is most important. I'd like to put it into that thought only. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, says that it is important to work in a broad way when possible, but in broad cooperation, even if that is not at peace, and transverse. I've put this into words at my meetings with a bang. A welfare committee and reiterate it from here that I feel that it will be important for me to become a parapolitic work and somehow get there. I think it's more comfortable working on these things than we have to give ourselves the whole time in the world to figure out who's on the bike. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we work together? Let us try to do what is fast. I'm happy to accept the challenge that I'll be here by the end of the summer and let them know how it's going.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u82	Madam President. In recent years, it has been found that there have been significant medication errors in the pharmaceutical possession of a land surgeon. The actual extent of the defect is really unclear, and it is not clear whether there is a system error, a systematic misregistration, or a repeated manual, but all of these explanations have been made in dealing with the office and the welfare department. I have, in conjunction with this case, reported reports and memos along with the self-reportation system of the database and have made very strange decisions regarding the design of the system technically, as I did in fact, in an article in the core I wrote along with Ingunn Björnsdóttir, taken in pharmacology at Oslo University, last October. It is extremely important that all registrations are correct in this database. You can't really describe how important it is, e.g. for scientific studies, for monitoring and planning for the costs of the medicinal product and for the State as well as for monitoring the absence of medication in the wrong hands. With enough clear answers from the management system, I am moved to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: 1st How is error testing and other quality monitoring of the medical database? 2. What explanation do we have for 10,000 tablets of prescription for amfetamine sulphate in the database of the surgeon general during the September 2015 through March 2016 period, which was then referred to in March 2016? 3. What explanation is there that the surgeon's office closed the case in the fall of 2016 with 1,985 tablets overreached even more unexplained? 4. Is there any further over- or underregistry still unexplained by the surgeon's office? If so, what is its scope, and what drugs are involved? It should be pretty clear that this is a very important matter. When we look at the databases of the state's government in order to really know what's going on, the key is that all registrations are clear. That's why I can't wait to know if it's the highest. Healthcare Minister has clear explanations for this particular group of errors identified in this specific database.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u83	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy has been directed to me by the oral request for registration in the geologist database. Thank you so much for your inquiry. First of all, ask me why. Senator on how to conduct error testing and general quality monitoring of the medical database of a land surgeon. To answer that question, for certainly I am not an expert myself, I have received the following information from the surgeon's office: The error tests and quality monitoring can be divided into three parts. First of all, there is monitoring of the supporting files of the product database. For each prescription of the product database, demographic information on the individual user is derived from a national registry; prescriber information is derived from the land physician's work log; and the values for daily doses, called DDD, are derived from a prescription. Second, monitoring of data and extravasation by healthcare professionals in the field of patient service is conducted. A surgeon's supervision is based on the fact that statistics are correct at the base. Notes are made to prescribers asking for explanations of prescribed prescriptions in regulations, clinical guidelines and special requirements. The extensive use of data from physicians and patients involves a high review and a demand for the authenticity of the data, so it can be said that this high use is a measure of quality management on the basis of itself. Third, regular error tests and the quality of the surgeon's office are arranged. In this office, the assessment of the reliability of data in the product database is routinely conducted where sales figures of the Agency and prescribings of the same medicinal product are used in other countries as comparators. This will allow regular quality tests with runnings designed to detect potential errors in the prescribing registry of doctors or pharmacists. Quality monitoring of the values for daily dosing, again this DDD, values in the final medication record, i.e. fortification of the foundation and the right to be given the values set out by the World Health Organization. This is checked regularly. Secondly, why? Senator what explanations for 10,000 tablets overregistered and prescribed amfetamine sulphate in the medical database between September 2015 and March 2016, which were later referred to in March 2016. Data from the surgeon's office showed an error in March 2016 when it was found that the registration of a prescriber has occurred in connection with the programming of electronic dispensing of doses from specific dosing sources. This error caused patients' drug transfers to the wrong doctors. There seems to be no indication that the overregistry has been established after the application has been corrected. Third, ask why. A senator explained that a field physician's office closed the case in the fall of 2016 with 1,985 tablets overreaching even more unexplained. To answer, this was not a fault or a miscalculation at the base but a fat compared with the tablets 1,985 supplied on a different product number. That was the end of the case. Fourth, it is asked if further over- or underregistry is still unexplained by a surgeon's office. If so, what is their scope and the medicinal product involved? The answer is simple: No, there have been no further unexplained over-registered or unregistered reports. The reduction in the number of paper prescriptions, including internalisation of non-medical prescriptions, is expected to be expected as well. Electrical prescriptions were in 2016 70% of all the prescribed prescriptions, but their share has been increasing. Most prescriptions therefore come from electronic registration systems in the health care department, i.e. from electronic prescriptions doctors and electronic prescriptions in pharmacy stores. The prescription of both doctors and pharmacists is part of the quality of monitoring and error testing of the product database data. To ensure the correct record of the data, protection or bug reports have been installed in the registration systems to limit the possibility of an incorrect data entering the base. An example is that prescribers cannot be registered on products that do not have a specific product number. National surgeon's product database has been started on a daily schedule with a high level of contact with physicians based on data from the base. Monitoring is based on the fact that numbers are correct on the basis, as there are comments to medical prescribers and requests for explanations of prescriptions on regulations, clinical instructions and special requirements. In addition, more than a thousand doctors now use the pharmaceutical database to address the product history of their clients each month. Physicians can therefore review both their clients' prescriptions at the base, publish new prescriptions, and compare prescriptions to medical records. Then patients have access to their prescriptions through health care. [[The president calls.]] This high use of data involves a high review and the dependability of the data. Thus, the use can be said to be a quality water supply on the foundation. If the prescription is checked, it is possible to see the normatic product number on the prescription and the Norse number on the counter to each entry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are a number of entries in which a prescription for one product number is published and then provided in another form, which is considered normal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u84	Madam President. Thank you very much. Health Minister for very detailed answers. These are a little better answers than we've ever had. At the same time, there is good reason to be glad to reduce the number of mistakes due to the use of electronic registrations rather than the use of my manual. I hope a minister agrees with me on the importance of our having these systems completely crystal clear and everything is right. Now I have done a lot of the programming of similar systems, in fact, not in health field but in other things. When this type of abnormality appears, it is almost always because the tests have not been performed properly. As a result, there is something we should discuss more in this room and the highest. Governments too, whether there is good reason to look for common quality systems for the State and especially for the quality management of electronic government systems. The error of a misfile by a different product number is at the constant database error and likely also an error in the design of the system and the programming interface or the system's user interface. It is a question of whether it should try to hide the product number so that rather talk about the brand name and the like. Thank you again for your good answers. This registration is most embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u85	Madam President. Thank you. Similarly, a senator for the inquiry, a good inquiry that matters. I agree with what. Senator that we need to be careful when it comes to software and standards. It tells itself that all our systems here in Iceland are small in international comparison, including the health system. True, we are happy to build on expenses, standards, and experience. This is important for us because we often have little time for mistakes. I agree with him, and it's important that we use this opportunity as well. I was very happy when I was studying this to see how much effort is put into place by the surgeon's office and by those in the health - care system taking over, monitoring, and developing their systems. It's important, I agree. I myself know in much simpler systems to register, when it comes to product numbers and brand names, must be very precise. The good news for us Icelanders is that, perhaps again because of the smallness, we are far beyond most of the neighboring nations in electronic pharmacovigilance, i.e. we have come up with a very high ratio of the prescriptions in electronic form. This is important both outside of medication and pharmaceuticals in general, but only in the presence of medical and patient services, in order to maintain clinical follow-up and information when prescribing. Thank you again for your good inquiry and good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u86	Madam President. Although nuclear weapons are spoken less today than when the Cold War was at its height, there are few things that pose greater threat to mankind. The world's nuclear weapons cages contain bombs that can eliminate all life on earth countless times. The superpowers compete to develop such new and more powerful weapons. At the same time, there is also the development of what has been called rhythmic nuclear weapons, weapons that some even dream of being used in local warfare. Thus, the chances that nuclear weapons will be used accidentally or deliberately have never been greater. This morning, discussions at the UN headquarters began to make a covenant that prohibits nuclear weapons. The preparation of these discussions has lasted for several years. Unfortunately, Iceland hasn't shown much interest in them. This gave rise to attention during 2015 when Iceland adopted a vote against such a ban, against a proposal, but after a press conference, in the State Department of State, and here in the Senate, this position was changed to a practice in a later vote, just to vote again against being announced to the conference that began today. Knowing that these talks on the ban on nuclear weapons should take place in the 20th century. March, and began today, this inquiry I recommend for distribution, on whether Iceland was involved, January 24, January 24. The request is first scheduled for the day, on the day of the talks. I can't see any better than that. Secretary of State as well as his predecessors, the United Nations, in general, to always do what NATO did. But I also have the impression that they may not enjoy discussing these matters at home. This is reflected in some of the difficulty in getting and taking a long time to get answers to queries, not just these, but others I've put forward to nuclear weapons. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Sends an Iceland representative to participate in discussions about the U.S. nuclear ban on nuclear weapons at the United Nations. March? [[The president calls.]] And second, what are the expectations of a minister for this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u87	A respectable president. Iceland's nuclear weapons policy is clear, that there is a world without nuclear weapons and that nuclear weapons are being destroyed in a targeted and mutual way. We most likely consider the success and the most realistic way to support the existing contracts and processes to form the agreement on the ban on the spread of nuclear weapons, NPT. In this regard, Iceland through the years has supported a wide range of conclusions in the United Nations, which are in line for this goal. However, we did not support the conclusion behind the talks that begin next month and are asked. The reason is even Because in advance it was clear that nuclear powers would not be involved in that process. We believe they need to sit at the table when the agreement is made to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. It's the only way you're gonna get it. However, I can readily agree that such activities are too slow, and safety is being carried on in various ways. Let us not forget, though, that there have been many successes. In the fall of the last year, we rejoiced for the 30th anniversary of the Cape Summit, the driving force behind major reductions in the nuclear cages of the superpowers back then. Thus, as many as 90% since the Cold War, the number of nuclear weapons under the Atlantic Community has decreased. So it is not about the purpose of a world without nuclear weapons that we all agree on but on the way to that goal. We don't believe in the way this is happening. Therefore, Iceland did not support the informed conclusion and will not be directly involved in the discussion. On the other hand, our New York Regular Committee for the United Nations, of course, will keep a close eye on developments. Sadly, in this late March meeting, the expectations are relatively small, since the nuclear powers do not participate in the discussion. We have also had the opinion, and therefore we did not support a controversial conclusion, that a new process without the most important factors could weaken the existing agreements, such as the NPT Convention on Nuclear Proliferation and the General Prohibition Treaty with Nuclear Test, CTBT. In order to reach the target and eliminate all nuclear weapons, all concerned people must come to the table. That was not the case. Then I just want to ask the question. The senator is well pleased that we could not answer that question sooner. It wasn't because it wasn't willing. I'm ready to talk about the nuclear weapons. It's not about any sensitivity in that regard. But when you're in that office that I'm in, you're a little bit more involved in the republic. That's why it couldn't be planted before. I'm asking respect for that. It just wouldn't be here until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u88	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry, and thank you very much. Minister late for reply. I don't know if it's the highest. A minister has come to realize, recalling some victories in the Cape and the direction of the past decades, that nuclear powers have increased. It is not as if there have been any outstanding success in the ways that have actually been in the past few years and decades. I would have chosen to Iceland with its message of peace, which is often more during the holidays than in the real world, to be involved in all the operations, paths, conferences that could be involved in controlling the spread of nuclear weapons. Whether or not the nuclear powers were there is not important. [[The president calls.]] This is no private matter for them. This is the case of all of us who inhabit this earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u89	Madam President. I have to say the word with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Arnad and Sirori Óttarsson Proppér suggest that Iceland does not share in these important discussions. For this reason, in particular, I would like to point out the opinions of the International Court of Justice in Hague that the use of nuclear weapons cannot be considered to be compatible with international law, including the Geneva Convention. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he feel that there is a reason to question the importance of such discussions? They are participating in 100 countries in the discussion right now. Despite the lack of nuclear powers, would it not be possible for Iceland to declare its stand by such discussions, thus pushing the nuclear powers to participate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u90	Madam President. It would have been nice to have a longer talk period than two minutes. But I guess I haven't. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for making it clear that it was not the subject that drew the answer. It is important that you do so. But I'd also like to say that it was not only because of the difficulty in answering this inquiry that I mentioned but also because of other questions about related matters that I have asked. V.E.G. Minister says he wants to use the contracts that are already in effect and refer to the NPT deal. I'm disappointed because it's true that contract doesn't seem to have worked very well. As we have seen, the number of countries that have the power to control nuclear weapons has increased. Although there is a decrease in the number of nuclear weapons in the world, there are still so many weapons that the world can be destroyed so that more dramatic measures are needed. The nuclear weapons would not be involved in these discussions, says the minister. Yeah, it seems like that. But there are more than 100 other countries in the world that share and demonstrate their will by participating. In fact, it is prominent when the list of member countries is considered missing, e.g. more or less all the nations that are members of NATO. I think I'll tell my story about this military alliance that we're on the team that has the right to use nuclear weapons in the first place. But there is an exception, i.e. The Netherlands in NATO sent its representatives to this meeting. [[The president calls.]] I think that's a good thing. It will be held again on June 15 to July 7. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to revise his mind because we have another opportunity, and then he can send our representatives to join us in these important discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen, especially whiskers. paritaprevir This important matter was raised by the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. Of course, this is a very important matter. It's everyone's case, as we've seen before. The members of the council mentioned here. But I think we have to face the fact that it's one thing to have the will to weaponize and another what is realistic to succeed. That's right, and that's what you're most concerned about, that the number of countries that have nuclear weapons is growing. With all due respect, I don't want to belittle if people come together and discuss this, at all. But we all know that if we are going to succeed in reducing the number of nuclear weapons, and particularly keep them from going to parties that I think we agree that there are no particular responsibilities, unfortunately, more is needed than these conferences. I'm sorry. Because they named NATO, let us remember that the number of their nuclear weapons has decreased by about 90% since the Cold War. The result was achieved, and let us not minimize that success. There is a reason for special mention of Cape. It was the meeting that had tremendous impact. Eventually, the development that had already existed began to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. I don't feel right, and I hope it wasn't meant to. Congress members, wanting to believe that they are not, that someone in this room or anyone else is going to do something other than want to reduce the number and preferably wipe out nuclear weapons. Everybody does. But we need to keep in mind that we live in the world of mankind. Then we need to think of the best ways in which we can succeed, both in the reduction of nuclear weapons and also in order to maintain world peace and to maintain peace in those who have truly proved to be the most irresponsible of their actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u92	Madam President. On December 12, 2014, a former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, explained that the State Department of State was starting an investigation to determine whether Iceland had been abused as an intermediary site for U.S. military prison flights in 20016/2007. The one present was immediately concerned that this investigation would fall into the same pit as the last investigation of the same matter. During the summer of 2007, Sóln Sólrún Gísladóttir, the then secretary of state, set up the first inspection in the summer of 2007, following the introduction of Iceland as the landing point of a prison flight in the European Parliament report on the involvement of European governments in American concentration flights and secret jails. However, the study was no more difficult than that the work team report confirmed only that the CIA's possible transport planes had entered Icelandic airspace and international airports, while the authors of the report were unable to verify it at all. The reason why the then prime minister decided to set up a new study was that the U.S. Senate Senate Senate Senate Senate Department published a report in December 2014 showing that American torture was far worse than many suspected. The official publication of the report published by the horrors committed in the name of the war against terrorism does not reveal the involvement of individual governments in the Western war crimes, which can be found in an unwritten version of the report. The Ministry of State went on to declare his plan to request access to the unregistered edition or, at least, the part that turns to Iceland, would appear in the report. This was 2014, and since then nothing has been heard of a planned government investigation on this matter. However, the matter is very important. It is possible that the arrival of Icelandic rulers into the U.S. war crimes, possibly in war crimes. That is why I am moved to ask the highest of questions. The minister of the Foreign Minister, Guðlaug Thor Þór, Þórðarsson the following questions: First, after the publication of a U.S. U.A. hearing of a U.S. hearing on the interrogation of suspected terrorists, did a new study of Iceland have been used as an international landing site for the U.S. military attack? Second, was there an unregistered U.S. U.S. Senate report on the interrogation methods of the U.S. intelligence agency of suspected terrorists? Third, what information was obtained from the State Department's inquiry, and where can it be obtained? Fourth, was a further investigation of the cross-examination of possible U.S. military prison planes following the State Department's inquiry? If so, what were its results regarding the arrival of the Icelandic government and its officials in the middle of an international concentration - control plane?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u93	A respectable president. In some 15 years, there have been discussions of the alleged illegal flights of prisoners. In 2007, then, a foreign minister, IAB Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, set up a team to find out that planes suspected to have been used in an alleged flight of prisoners have landed in Cheflavík or in Reykjavík. The conclusion was that airplanes designed for expected prisoner flights had been in the country or have flown through Icelandic airspace during the period of the year, 20013/42007, but if a prisoner transport was involved, it could not be verified. It should be noted, however, that transfers to prisoners are not banned and practiced worldwide. It is different with the transport of prisoners who are not protected or treated by international law, which is not legal. The Icelandic government was not then or now aware that such an illegal transfer of prisoners took place in Iceland. And if such flights had come to the attention of the Icelandic government, they would certainly never have authorized or approved such transport, a clear violation of international law. No special fly or landing permit was applied for such machines. If such a move has taken place, it has been a mess with the government of the United States. At one time when the U.S. government's supreme discussion was repeated, this position was explained by the government of the United States. Later reports to form a report of the U.S. U.S. Intelligence Committee, which was in part public in 2014, provide no further reason to believe that Iceland is implicated in the suspected illegal inebriated flights. This should be emphasized, however, that the State Department and the Icelandic government take all charges of the alleged illegal flight of prisoners through Iceland very seriously and are concerned with preventing this. To that end, there was even. No. 60/1998, converted to July 2015 to strengthen the improvement and clearance to request information on state funerals as well as to set rules for foreign air transport and transportation. The conclusion of the 2007 report is otherwise stated by the Icelandic government, of course, the same today. We stand by human rights and international law. That's where we fully investigate the possibility of a fracture. This attitude has also been developed in dealing with the European Council, including in response to the then U.S. secretary of state in October 2015 to the Commission's inquiry to the Member States due to the opinion of the Council on concentration flights. A respectable president. A client asks for the access of the State Department to an unregistered U.S. Congress report and the release of inquiries there. The first answer, as stated in the 2014 State Department press release, was published by a 520 - page extraction from a detailed U.S. Congress report. In the opinion that Iceland and the local population were not represented by prisoners or by suspected terrorists, it was out of control. It was requested to access the complete report, which was rejected on 23 December 2014 by the United States government on the basis of confidential and security issues. However, the efforts of the U.S. government were not directed to Iceland alone. Thus, the United States government has no further information on the report of the U.S. Congress, but the outline is very detailed. Finally, the Ministry of State and the Icelandic government will repeatedly take all charges of the alleged illegal flights through Iceland very seriously and are concerned with preventing and preventing it. No one should be misled by this position by the government of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u94	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answers. But I still ask myself, " Has this planned investigation been properly conducted? ' V.E.G. According to a minister, access to an unregistered report by the U.S. Congress was rejected, and it indicates that the government has dealt with confidentiality. However, I remember that when this discussion took place, the U.S. authorities declared their will to provide access to countries in particular to their countries. So I would like to reiterate the question I asked earlier, whether the Icelandic government, i.e. The Ministry of State has specifically requested access to the part of the report directly affecting Iceland and not to other unwritten portions of the report. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in his talk that the authorities repeatedly explained the position of the U.S. government to the U.S. authorities, following this statement and discussion. I'm asking myself if the U.S. government has been asked if prisoners were on the plane or on an alleged prisoner plane such as the highest level. Minister prefers to call them. Did the U.S. government ever ask whether prisoners were aboard airplanes connected to the U.S. federal agency and landed here on land? So I make it very clear: Has the State Department requested access to that part of the U.S. Senate report for Iceland only but not for the entire report unregistered?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I went as well as I could to review the answers to the question that arose. A senator offered. I thought the second question was a repetition of that question. I see no reason to reread the answers I had in my first talk. The point is, I was not in the area when these questions were raised, but I see no reason to believe that this case was won as well as possible. Two of my officers, at least, did more, if all is taken away. The position of the government of the United States is clear. She certainly hasn't changed. However, it is quite clear that the Icelandic government is not able to question non-consistencies, as everyone knows. I don't think there's any way to say that those people who came before me haven't handled the case fully. I don't think there's any way to argue that the views of the Icelandic government have not been very clear on this matter, both back then and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u96	Madam President. Schengen is one of the most important international partnerships in Iceland. This guarantees the European Union's access to Europe and various other countries without visas and effort. The extent to which access to other countries will be greatly appreciated for financial purposes. Most European countries are now making agreements with the Schengen agreement that their citizens are also allowed access to Iceland and other countries of the Schengen region without visas. In the near future, such an agreement goes into effect with Ukraine, and tomorrow such a deal goes into effect with Georgia. Turkey has also been in charge of this but was put on ice after Erdogan began to have rather extreme dictatorial expressions. But Cocoovo will be the only country left in Europe in some sense, that may be a stretching concept, but the only European country knows that it doesn't have such a deal. There have been various reasons why no such agreement has been made. But few explanations really hold water. For example, Cosvos' border conflicts with Montenegro have been reported, but there is no border dispute at this time in Ukraine. Of course, just as Schengen is extremely important to the inhabitants of Cosvos to visit neighboring countries without having to go through a long, long career. The structure of the country and its future depend largely on creating a business and cultural relationship with other countries. So I ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Why has there not been a agreement on visa freedom to Cosvo like most other European countries? In their dealings with the European Union, does a minister think that such a deal will be resolved with Cosvo? Of course, it is not our duty here to protect the interests of the people of Cosvos. We have enough business to protect Iceland's interests. But I still think that it serves Iceland's interests that there's good and it's a access to the country for people from abroad so that we can form cultural and business relationships, not to mention the tremendous positive effects it has on peace in the world, that people can meet and talk to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u97	A respectable president. The Schgeren State negotiates together with a third state of visa freedom into the Schengen area and can take such a process, depending on the way a candidate state meets the conditions available. In the case of Cosvo, the EU and Cosvo, from 2012 onward, have been systematically involved in the deconstruction of the country's citizens of Cosvoovo. The process of negotiation with third state is standard. Prior to meeting the contract table, the countries must meet certain criteria set out in the EU signing freedom programme. With President's permission Road Map on Visa Liberalisation The requirements are clear and transparent criteria related to national safety and universal rule, respect for human rights and freedom of person, the affairs of immigrants and international relations of the relevant candidate countries. The programme also outlines specific monitoring and evaluation of the conditions to be carried out prior to this decision taken by the EU and Schengen countries. This puts special emphasis on safety and the fight against organized violations and terrorism. The importance of holding these cards well from the European Union does not need to be largely debated. As previously stated, the European Commission's discussions with Cosvo began officially at the beginning of 2012, and in June of that year the European Commission delivered a European Commission of the Kyoto Protocol. There were conditions that would have to be met by Cosvoovo, including with legislation and other measures. The country has been successful in fulfilling the measures of action and has now reached 93 of the 95 criteria set out in the programme. The two unrecognised requirements, however, are of utmost importance and involve the requirement that Cocoovo validate a geographic cut-off between Montenegro and Cosvos and on the other hand, the challenge of organized crime, corruption, and terrorism is required. The EU has also expressed concern about the increasing flow of trustees from Cosvo and the government's action to handle this. On May 10, last year, the European Commission issued a proposal for a change in Regulation No. 539/2001, where it was determined that Cosvo would be transferred to a list of countries that do not need visas to travel to the Schengen area. This suggestion, however, depended on the completion of Chovo during operations in relation to the two conditions that have not yet been met. It adds that the Cosvo government is working very closely with the European Commission in meeting the requirements of the implementation programme. It is clear, therefore, that once Coovo has met all the conditions of the Action Programme, the changes to the Regulation will be made to both the European Parliament and the Council, where an increased proportion will be required for the approval of the Agency's legislation. For Iceland and other Schengen countries outside the EU, it is so that once the EU has made agreements with individual countries for the removal of visas, we have followed and canceled visa duties together with other Schengen countries. Is it confirmed by a deal with the state. I would like to conclude that the procedure in the EU and the Schengen countries is standard. It is not unforeseeable. This is a key issue, and it follows that clear and transparent conditions are essential to such important matters. One of the commitments associated with the participation in Iceland in the Schengen Community work is to carry out the rules of entering the Schengen area. Thus, the current list of states requiring signatures and not the same in the whole area that is based on the EU's agreed EU Regulation on the area of Schengen Community work that Iceland has formally agreed on for its own. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u98	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for a very good answer. It's interesting to know how far this is going, i.e. 93 requirements met by 95. That means it can run out in a year or something like that. I'd like to hear from a minister if he has any idea what time we could be talking about. Is this a year? Is this less than a year? Is this five years? There's one thing. It is also interesting to hear of the added action against organized violations. Now I know a little about East Europe, and I've done some personal research on organized fracture activities there and there. There are a number of countries that have done a very poor job of controlling organized violations. Most of them have just got passport visa freedom to the Schengen area. It would be interesting to know a little more about what these specific actions involve, of course, there is something to be said about them. I completely agree with the highest. Of course, a minister's concern is that countries that can access our territory have security and human rights priority. Of course, we benefit if we have clear conditions and carry them out. It also increases the ability of these countries to share in international cooperation. I thank you for the answer, but I would love to learn more about these two things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the inquiry and the addition to it. As I went over in my case earlier, it's about to turn to the government of Cosvo now. I just don't know why they're so long to finish it. I'll just be honest with you that I don't know the circumstances in Cosvo. Hv. A senator mentioned it and knows, unfortunately, that there is something about organized crime in Eastern Europe and perhaps more than anywhere else in some places there. It is therefore of utmost importance that they have confidence in the arrangement available to maintain the fundamental arrangement for travel between countries. When many countries work together in such cooperation, no one is stronger than the weakest link. We know that a lot of good things have happened in this relationship, and I think I am. A senator would agree that freedom of choice is extremely important and good, but the other side of the coin is that it must be carried out so that citizens are being helped to travel rather than organized criminal organizations. That's why I completely agree with what. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy when he says it's very important to think of them. It would be bad if we had to see some limit to civil travel freedoms because the arrangement is not complete and strong enough. Such cooperation, like so many other things, has nothing stronger than the weakest link.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u100	V.E.G. President. The recent implementation of a participant community in public transport has been under discussion and a high level of attention on the organization. According to a recent meeting program in the South Country Association, the U.S.A. the need to ensure that national groups are patented by public transport and that the exclusive right of the National Association to operate public transport on certain routes and areas will be respected and that the rights of these countries are given more protection in the law. The organization also asks for a clearer distinction between public transportation and commercial passenger transport. The same is true in the Southnes. There, stakeholders in group transport have fought the route of flying sites to be defined as public transportation, and they want unregulated competition. The Contestance Commission has published an opinion supporting the viewpoint of the groups. Now the State Department has opposed a contract between the Union's members on the Southnes and the lowest bidder. The road then canceled the illegal license of the SSS along the way, so there are now public transportation in the Southnes as well as in the whole country, but the court's decision is not yet available. The Contestance Commission has concluded that the current route is, not public transportation, but tourism. It also says that according to European rights it is forbidden that there is a profit paid to improve service by other means. In addition, it is claimed that the SSS will make money from this route into the general community business. None of this is valid. In Europe it is permitted that the state will allow a special license on public transport and that profit can be used to improve services in unsurpassed ways as long as the economy as a whole does not profit. In all other parts of the North countries, road routes from international airports are thought to be part of public transportation, for the public is benefiting from economic and economic transport through international airports. Public transportation is the responsibility of the State, and the Road Force does so. In 2011, the national and national transport laws were changed so it would be permitted to assign the European Union to care for public transport in its territory. The reason was that rural society knew the best need within its territory and could best use the money for the benefit of the public. The rural community around the country has gone into tenders, and in many cases, cooperation with the Bus bus has begun. General satisfaction has this arrangement in the public. Benefits from increasing the use of public transport include less pressures on transport and less emissions, so to speak, positive environmental and social effects. The person standing here wants public transportation to become a practical option. This results in many benefits, as mentioned earlier. I don't want our system to be that private people get the money from ways that they live, but the public pays off an adverse course. Since this inquiry was submitted, there has been quite some time and a minister in the meantime has provided a bill for public transport now by the river. Environmental and Transport Committee. However, I would like to hear what a minister's view of several things is: Is the Minister planning to give the national components the patents of public transportation? [[The president calls.]] Does a minister agree that there is a need to ensure that there is a profit - making route is part of the community transport network? Is it possible for a minister to make a clearer distinction between public transportation and commercial passenger transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u101	A respectable president. We are discussing a matter that has caused some controversy, and there have been conflicting opinions. The question here is, will the Minister work for reform in the public transport legal environment? As mentioned in the case of what? A candidate is now being discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee on Environment and Transport Committee to legalize passengers and transport transport. It makes a clear distinction between the regular transport of passengers, i.e. Public transportation, as well as other commercial passengers. Then the bill defines what conditions it is permitted to grant patents to organise public transportation on increased passenger transport clearances and about the provision for driving regularly for passengers in areas or routes where patents have been granted. These increased monitoring warrants and repairs include considerable improvements in public transport laws. There are no further actions planned on our part. This is a direct introduction to European rules. This case was worked in good consultation with the European Union. We believe this will guarantee this patent in public transport. It is also asked whether a minister intends to grant patent permission to the National Associations. According to 1st mg. 7. law on transport and freight transport, No. 73/2001, the road type has the authority to allow rural, rural, and national components to be patented to organize and manage public transport by automobiles in designated areas and on certain routes. A patent license has been granted in accordance with Article 7. current law, except for the Company Association in the capital area. Seven. a bill to legalize passengers and cargo transport in the country, which is now being discussed at the end of the year. Environmental and transport committees are the same sources in these areas. It is also asked if there will be a clearer distinction between commercial transport and passenger transport. So to answer in my case, a respectable president, it is thought by the Ministry, as far as I know, to be at peace with the Icelandic community members, the collection that is under control of the bill. I expect you to be able to make money on spring days and will ensure this community interest that is of great importance. Therefore, there should be some uncertainty that we believe has been involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u102	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you for the discussion, I'm becoming the most grateful man in this General, always coming up in the pontu, for, and for the answers of the highest. Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir came into the house. The Environment Committee would be a legal bill for public transportation. Not all costs are right. It's like the highest. A minister pointed out that it is a national law code and transport bill. I think that's exactly what we're supposed to do right now, to put special laws on public transportation. Many of the reporters who gave us the bill we are discussing on the Committee specifically specified it. Public transport is a unique phenomenon that affects the particular situation that I give the highest credit. Minister to set up specific laws there. [[The president calls.]] If the highest. A minister sees it not possible for some reason, another or another, I believe the highest. Environmental and transport committees should take steps in these activities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u103	A respectable president. I also appreciate this discussion. A senator for presenting this inquiry and then the minister. I have a seat too. The Environment and Transport Committee, where we are dealing with just the discussed bill involved. I think the bill has been over for a long time, both in the Ministry and in the Union of Iceland. I hope we have a good hand-to-hand device to ensure this as far as the exclusive rights are concerned and the rights that have been lived there. It is also important to have some administrative tools to respond if it is thought to be running into the private court. But I'm also going to agree with what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér as to the possibility that in the near future, we would need to make a special public transport bill. Then I may also refer to certain technological changes and innovations that will hopefully be here in the near future, especially in the capital area as well as in other areas. Then I would also like to state that we may need to take some doubt as to who is responsible for public transportation and who pays for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u104	V.E.G. President. It's always nice to go to such a verbal inquiry because it's so fun to get more members of Congress. Thanks for the input. The senators of Kolbeinn, Ottar, Óttarsson of Proppér and Brithis, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir. It just shows that there is a possibility that a special bill on public transportation is needed, and I hope to the highest level. A minister will consider this and consider it further. The bill in question, which will be discussed in the section below. The Environment and Transport Committee has been thoroughly agreed with the rural areas, but some comments have been received through critical points for the better. I'd like to mention here two points from the history of a South American Union partner: On the one hand, the relationship points out that if there is a violation of the exclusive rights, there is a need to add the permission of a U.S. O. There must be a clear reserve that has tangible consequences for people who are violated against the exclusive rights. Another problem to explain is the so - called ring sticker. For example, I hadn't thought of that, i.e. When you buy a ring sticker, which will travel with several places around you, you need to limit the way the ring is defined. Otherwise, patents are of little value and offer abuse if they are not clear. So you can bypass the system using these rings. I want us to look at it. So I didn't quite quite make it. Minister, and ask him to answer if he agrees with the need to ensure that profitable means are part of the community transport network. So I didn't quite get the answer from a minister earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u105	A respectable president. Only about the last question why. The senator will agree that it is possible to grant a patent to organize public transportation. This, of course, applies to some system, and hence, the ways that are more complex, if we can put it that way. It is quite clear that some routes will be carried, and pricing should be appropriate if private citizens take up the effort to pick up passengers on these routes and thereby reduce the value of the entire system. We think we're getting in the way of that. I welcome the debate on public transportation. I accept that idea well, if it's considered a reason to look at specific laws on public transportation. You're right next door. paritaprevir My Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's joke that changes are in the water that may be larger, if they go on, but we've seen, which has been linked to this so - called city line. While at an early stage, this should be considered. If there are any buttons in this matter, something better, and present themselves in the case of the committee, we are in a position to try to improve matters. This is what the church's treatment is for. I'm happy for that, and I'm asking them to cooperate with what. Councilmen in the Committee on These Changes. It is important that we have an overall vision, and we do not violate the international law we are partly bound to do in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u106	A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Transport and Regional Minister for the duration of this inquiry for the implementation of a synonym on the application site of the Road Building. So it was that at the 145th legislature, a concierge proposal was proposed, of the one here and more members of the council, in order to address a particular and growing challenge in the tourism service. The problem lies in the fact that whole landscape is absolutely lacking in a plagiarism for tourists. The idea of a conjugal proposal was to make use of the existing infrastructure, e.g. At the destination of the road making, where there is already a signal and the like, and in some of them, even in the mending facilities, and thereby ensuring the stability of the ministry that has been observed during the last year's discussions to be greatly lacking in the way we deal with foreign tourists and domestics. It was now that at the end of the spring of 2016, the decision was concluded that the decision was made by a environmental transport committee, in which it was widely captured and responded wisely, as well as by the Vega's meeting of the Committee, which said she saw the possibility of working in the spirit of the proposal, at least The path to the program "smb4k_supplicant" It was concluded that not only amend the proposal from the Committee but also settle it here at the council by directing work to the government in June 2016. Now I'm asking the highest. A secretary of transportation, who has arranged for information in his Ministry on the consequences of this proposal, on the issues of the matter, and on the status of the work in leading up to the greatest tourist attraction in history.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u107	A respectable president. Yeah, the big toilet case, I don't think anybody wants us to be in the world stories about what it's been following. It was on June 2, 2016, that the General concluded to hide the Minister of the Interior to appoint a highway search group with the intention of making the proposal for building, role, and development of road construction sites, to form a toilet position. The population should also evaluate the increase in the number of application sites, provide priorities in the construction of the application site and assess the costs of the structure. Building was funded by funding for service until 2005. Since then, new application sites have been funded for construction. During the same period, funding has also been given at chains, lots of parking places, weighed sites, extrusions, or nature called on in increasing numbers. The road has come up in many places on the highways of the country. Worldwide, there are about 500 destinations of road construction on highways around the country, of which nearly 200 are offered some kind of facility or service, such as an information sign, a picnic table, a trash can. At theures of the Road, there has been watering toilets in one place and nowhere else. The road does not require that the road be used to provide for tourism. Nevertheless, in line with the aim of road construction for good service to road users and traffic security, road safety has made it seem that the roads have certain obligations in these areas. Thus, the Agency has made zones in many parts of the country, out of profit from road users. Last year, the Roadmaker's staff was appointed to assess the need to improve the application sites. According to his assessment, at mosture places of the road must be improved. There is a need to reinvent information signs, install tables and benches, build walls, machines, position for bicycle drivers, and so on. The cost of each source of services or facilities could average about 2.5 million, with an total of 500 million cost for major sites. In recent years, efforts have been made to assess the need for application sites. Have a minimum of Advertisers are given information about places that are popular with tourists. People in travel services have helped to map places where tourists want to stop the camera. There are many places where there are excerpts or application sites. On the basis of this information, you can find a pointed idea of the number of source sites that would be added. There could be some 1,100,200 locations, and most of them are looking to places where traffic is dangerously stopped. The target must be marked specifically. It can be estimated that this could be a total cost of some 700 million. K. Special attention has been given to the need for baths and waste management at application sites. With increasing tourism, there is an increase in the need for cosmetics and littering at the application sites that require daily service and monitoring. There is evidence to suggest that some application sites need to be closed because of decomposition. Thus, evaluation and planning of the need for toilets and a suitable location have been undertaken. The analysis work was primarily done to search for solutions to the resting - place of the Road Building. ELA was given twice the strength to appreciate this need, first at the level of information, but, after that, it was given the strength to make suggestions on where it was needed for toilets. Then ELA should accept suggestions on solutions and weigh gross costs. The result of the procedure is that in 40 new containers there is a great need for toilets. In the work of the local Ministry and the road to setting priorities for important projects for the coming summer under the direction of tourism, it is proposed to establish the portable room in the most permanent places that are longest between services. The cost of such a project is estimated at least 5 million per site and later experience would be provided for permanent solutions requiring good facilities, septic facilities, and related equipment in everyday service. Since such a project is not contained, neither within the laws of Vega nor in the financial resources it is clear that the project needs to be funded to build up tourists. It should be emphasized that the making of the road is not equipped to run the application site, so that waste is unchanged. It is also involved in the winter tour of Iceland's project during the entire year, which has made the winter service needed for gunship and shelters. A respectable president. This is what's being handled. Yes, because the question was asked, there's been a temporary response in my opinion, which is being reacted in various places. The analysis has been performed. I don't think any of us want the coverage that has been the same as we've had in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u108	A respectable president. I take my heart to worry about the consequences of this case. There are more tourists on the roads of the country than on sheep. They have been given long talks about how to escape. Places of application and then places of photography are essential. The situation today is that of still - settled cars that are widely scattered in hollows and hills by unscrupulous individuals. It puts them at great risk to individuals and other road users, risks that are unnecessary and light work, and shyness to block the well. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: is the highest. A minister agrees that action is needed immediately this summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u109	Madam President. I'm glad to hear that. A minister made a good effort to make a success of this matter, and it is good that analysis has been made to determine where the need is to set up a toilet parking position around the country on the highways of the country. Of course, this need is urgent. It was observed that there are about 40 places in which the situation, such as road users, is far apart and that the situation needs to be established. Inlanders build mobile toilet facilities so that they do not have a beach to look at the possibility of buying from these relevant facilities. Of course, it is not possible to invite tourists to have no existing situation, that they have to stop and walk anywhere along the highway. Of course, that is not acceptable. Also, it is not acceptable to shop around the country to bring a busload of tourists just to the toilet. [[The president calls.]] We cannot expect shopkeepers to do what the State is supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u110	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of the council who have participated in this discussion. I'm glad that this council proposal has not been forgotten, as sometimes happens, by proposals approved, or by government, and especially by the end of Congress. That's what I want to thank you for. Minister for maintaining the case and being kept awake. As revealed in the minister's answer, it has been worked on the basis of this proposal, and of course further work in the Ministry has taken place for a considerable time to map the situation and the extent of the government's intervention so that we will not be ashamed of the corruption. It is natural that we do not want to do so at all. Although the situation is truly so that it is not the defined task of roadmaking, I think it can cost us dearly if we as a community are not responsible for keeping these minimal wood in order. So I expect the places that will be temporarily fixed or temporarily installed for this summer will significantly change this position. But I want to pray to the highest. A minister in his later reply to it, if he sees the possibility of the time because of that, here we are talking about analysis and then temporary action, how the highest possible. A minister predicts that arrangements will take place in the future, i.e. Stable measures, to deal with these fundamental international tourism activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u111	A respectable president. Of course, responding as quickly as possible is an urgent experience. It has been discussed in the field of travel directors who have participated in this work by identifying this and creating a set priority list. The assessment of the road making of what needs to be treated during the summer is that it takes about 60 billion. K. to roadshots, toilets under Vega's operations plan will make 90 million. K. It can be expected, then, that it could occur in close to 20 places. In addition to this, I'd like to mention that on the parking lot bill, which has been submitted here, which allows rural society to react to national construction, I put high hopes in it. I think that there will be a great improvement in the ability to receive tourists and that rural society can earn normal income to support this operation, but there has been a shortage of rural incomes against the high costs of promoting the services of tourists in their areas. I expect the matter to be successfully ended during the spring day, and I know that rural society is already preparing its first steps. It will require and result in extensive internal services. Then we need to look to the future. That's how this document needs to be awake. It was just in my case earlier that the road generation has specifically seen to it that lasting solutions, perhaps opening much of the year, have had to be made. six months a year. If so, it would be part of a septic tank and the demands we make for such a permanent service. [[The president calls.]] That must be the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u112	V.E.G. President. There have been some statements regarding this matter since the request for road construction of Chef Forest was submitted. Since the request has been submitted, including It was found that despite the fact that this process was being carried out in the former high - quality transport program, the earmark of many years'work in the Gufudal Corps is no longer present. Minister of state. And for some reason, I, as a member of the Parliament, felt that the advancement of the projects was given at the highest level. A minister back then would be committed. Then we all know the discussion of a road program as it came from what happened. All of us have been funded only in part, but we must all remember an approved budget where it was said that it was the task of a new government to add a set of priorities. Now it's got the highest. A secretary of transportation found 1,200 million people to respond to what was lacking, and there are 200 million for the Tech Forest project. I've been pushing the progress of this case, i.e. Weighing through Chets Forest, a project that hasn't gone anywhere in too many years. The southern population of the West has just grown weary of the situation. That's why I asked a former U.S. Marshal. Minister of state to see if the task could be settled. In discussion at the highest level. an internal minister said that when a new report developed, the possibility could be considered. It would even be possible to divide the project, starting with the part of the way that is settled, i.e. to give hope that something will happen in these matters, and to begin right away, the Faulty and Deep Offground will be released as soon as possible. Then, with the conclusion of this many years of controversy, there would be a fear - inspiring road, and hopefully it would be possible to do so as soon as possible. The report has now arrived and tomorrow, at least according to the news, the Organization will submit its opinion on the matter. Well, I hope then the lines begin to clear things up. Current level. A secretary of transportation has talked about setting priorities for these projects as soon as the result is reached. But we've only 200 million now on our schedule to work on this project, and we can't get far. Now that there's quite a turn to the finish line, I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation whether he knows anything about the matter, whether he can inform us here, and now whether there is any hope for a decision to be settled. In my speech, I have discussed the subject of question 1 and 4 and finally asked: When does the top count? If the results become positive, a minister would be able to initiate the proposed implementation in the West Seaway? Should the results of the assessment process be negative, would it be possible to divide the project, as I discussed above?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u113	A respectable president. It's been a long time waiting for the road back there. It has become more urgent than ever in view of the powerful work structure in the area, where heavy transport is taking the products produced there. On February 27, 2017, the final costume report between Bjarkalinjarjarjarjarjarjarjarjarjarjarjarar and splatness was formally received by the Organizational Organization, and as noted by the end of the year. A senator is expected to give up his opinion tomorrow by a planning agency. While the results of the Agency will be positive for the so - called Transit forest route, it is difficult to determine when it will be possible to start. When the decision of the Agency is established, the next step is to apply for a postal application to Smokehapps and initiate formal negotiations with landowners. They may be charged with their services. If so, the evidence remains unclear. How long it takes to negotiate with landowners is also difficult to tell. The road then feels that it takes one to three months to have export data ready. The results of the report are asked if there is a negative result, whether it is possible to divide. The report currently available in the Organizational Organization provides five different options. The road suggests the first possible way in which YH, or a so - called Chef Forest Route. If, for some reason, such a course is not possible, a decision must be made about the next choice. In all, that option may not be the case, but the preconceived Undergrounds and the Deep Offgrounds only fall to three of the five paths. As noted earlier, the government adopted the last Friday extra funding to cover up to 1,200 million. K. in the year. The total cost of the road by the Gufudal Desert or Teigs Forest is estimated to be about 6 billion. In 2017, we are expected to have implementation and to reject 200 billion. K. so that the first to-do can be offered, create a position for contractors, and make breaches through Techwood, and drive with fill material into the mud. In terms of further funding, we will look forward to providing funds and a new transport plan that we plan to contribute to the Council at the end of this year or at the beginning of the next. It is clear that this is one of the priorities of our transport system. I've said that we'll look for all the ways to speed up projects, and we'll appreciate their importance to the people there, as well as the increased pressures that result from a high level of employment build-up. On the other hand, there are many projects, and they are very large. We all know the sad story, i.e. The consequences of our failure to carry out further projects here in the vicinity of the capital area, the recent accidents that we have witnessed are examples of this. Therefore, we are having the Ministry examined to see if we could take these expensive projects out of parentheses by searching for other means of funding, but in general we can assume that this is a project that can study up to 100 billion dollars. and maybe more. This is evident in the current work, to reach out for this, but its first stage is ahead of springtime. Then we have all the other projects, a respectable president, which is throughout the scattered settlements and, indeed, here in the capital area as well. To illustrate, the estimated total waste on the road to Forest Beach, which is almost completely unacceptable, is about 6 billion dollars, the forest as previously mentioned, 6 billion. We're building a petal tunnel, there's 3.5 billion per year for the next few years. It can be calculated that the road over Daringham, which is, in effect, part of an animal tunnel, costs 3 to 4 billion, I'm going to shoot at it. Then we have a Kappus road, which is a lot of pressure. It's about 1.5 billion. Then we have the Horn of the Earth, which is about 4 billion. And then we have the Berufjörður bottom, which is over a billion. Now I've only counted a few examples. A respectable president. This is besides a very serious need, especially around resorts in the Southland, where the road system is completely frozen. So it is not without reason that I have asked that we look for an open mind of other ways to carry out these urgent tasks. We know that although we have increased the expenses of the state's budget on the record between 2016 and 2017, or about 50 billion, the Council did not trust, before this government came into operation, to place in the road area of 4.6 billion. [[The president calls.]] We know that there will continue to be a great deal of pressure on health, education, and the welfare system, so there are many ways to look at it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u114	Madam President. Surely, there are many things to look at. However, this area has a unique position, the only route to the population, which runs through this hollow road that was seen in television news the other day. It is not yet acceptable that its inhabitants will have to wait forever for these minimal transportation benefits to their territory. V.E.G. A minister mentioned a great deal of work in the area. Happily, it is based on the southern part of the West. Hence, in order for acceptable roads to lead into this area, instead of decrepited dirt roads, to be in line with the sector's construction and the much currency paid for the area. You can't let this go on in the system with landowners. That's not acceptable. It must be divided and put in more than 200 million dollars that will last about two miles. [[The president calls.]] We'd have to do this for a lot of years if we had to pay it in like that. It takes much more than it needs in this area that has been left behind and has a unique position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u115	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Transporter for clear answers. I ask, " How can I talk about setting priorities for these matters when money was cut down to 200 million, from 1,200? ' I just don't understand how it goes together. That's right, the highest. Ministers say there are many projects, and they are very large. It's also true, which is the highest. Minister says, there is a great urgency to go on these projects, for there is constant news that companies with large and rapid growth in the area have trouble getting resources for their business and getting valuables to export here on the southwest corner. It's a very serious situation. I'm worried how long it might take to get this license. I know I'm not alone in worrying that landowners will still be negotiated. I know that it resents the southern part of the West that it seems that a few people have been able to stop this project for many years. Do we not have any way to push this project faster? We cannot allow another year to pass where people sit and wait for a conclusion. So I ask the highest. Again: Is there any way he can support the introduction of some improvement over the summer, and we make the decision about which way we're going to go?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u116	A respectable president. There's been a debate over this road for a long time, and there's something special about it. Magnúsdóttir It is my account that the people in south of the West will have to wait forever. I hope she's well aware of that, too. Its party has been highly opposed by certain members of Parliaments to the issue suggested by the Roadmaker. [[Up front.]] A great controversy has already existed over the matter, which has delayed it, as it turns out. But I hope the end of it comes along, and then we'll go and have already set aside funds to do so. [[Hopes are attached to you, John.]] I totally agree with that with what. paritaprevir Lilja Hynus Rafney that it is not going to work over many years. I totally agree with her in that. This is both unacceptable and unacceptable. So we need to look for solutions and make a good example of doing this work, as did so many others. However, it is difficult to establish priorities, and we tend to see each one with his eyeglasses on all these projects according to the source of our country's origin. I understand a lot about it when people east of the country or on Smokejanes say, "The order has come for us. " This is clearly one of the top priorities of roadmaking. I can answer why. paritaprevir Elsa Lára by that we will do it. But she asks: " Why do you say that you are setting priorities in these matters when there is no more money than you can see? It was the General Assembly who decided before this government went into operation what would be suggested on the road. This year, it should be worth 5.8 billion, 5,800 million more to road conditions than it did last year. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of money. It's 2,2624 billion in one terms period, if you count it together. So there'll be a lot to do with that money. But better, if it's enough. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. Today, the Senate is assigned to prioritise both in the fall and in the same way with the budget now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us help you to push this matter forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u117	Madam President. A debate about whether insurance is a reasonable tax or an individual and how much it harms different big companies often arises. It has been called repeatedly because insurance bills cut down, and especially because of its connection with unemployment. Unemployment costs are very low right now, but the tax is not just due to the unemployment insurance policy, but there are other factors. It's been called for, including. ... fromthecounsel of the commercial world at the beginning of February. This was a discussion in the leading of an election. In most cases, insurance costs add greater weight to smaller companies and dictators. By permission of the President, the Government Declaration states: In particular, the tax environment of an enterprise's mono- and medium-sized enterprise has to be determined by simple and low-important spending. This, of course, is a discussion that will never end. We'll probably be discussing this in political context forever. I'm a little curious about what the government has to do with it. That's why I'm asking the highest. Economic and economic Ministers: Will the Minister's discretion suggest that insurance be reduced? Is there any problem at the moment when insurance can be lowered, and how much? Does the Minister's insurance fee have a greater relative impact on SMEs than on larger enterprises? These questions do not occur in voids. There are different things about these things. But, of course, it's the highest. Minister to have an opinion on this subject at any time. I'm actually calling for a political answer rather than simply facts, because this is a point that will be influenced by a great deal of government policy. This has not been made clear enough, that I think, in a financial policy that is now being discussed and that sort of thing. I can't wait to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u118	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for bringing up a question about insurance. In his inquiry, he asks me if I intend to propose a reduction in insurance and if anything stands in the way of doing so. Insurance costs have been somewhat discussed during the last year, as expected according to the rate of the tax. Remuneration agreements are required to pay the total of their employees and to exchange the tax in general insurance and employment insurance. During the current business year, the price is 6.85% and has dropped somewhat over the past few years. The price was highest at 8.65% at the beginning of 2010. It is, however, not always easy for a comparison because the cost differs. As part of the insurance bill goes to pay unemployment insurance, it has the advantage of being a more automatic fluctuate to the extent possible. The sea is gathered up when the years are well, the payments are high into the fund, and the water is low, but when the boat is served, the fund pays more. This fluctuation is automatic in that it does not require a government's specific decision to make this happen. Thus, the reduction in insurance costs is to be kept in mind that the funds funded with the fee produce normal economic swings. If there is going to be an increase in the amount of pay paid on maternity vacations, it reduces the scope for the decline in insurance costs to the unchanged currency, and the result will be that a larger portion of the social security system needs to be funded by tax revenues, e.g. worth tax. According to the Government Declaration, the tax environment of mono- and SMEs needs to be considered in particular by streamlining and reducing insurance costs. It also says that there is an increase in payments for parents in maternity vacations. The answer to a basic question. A senator is that the government is headed for a cut-off of insurance during the term. The exact time will depend on the circumstances of the budgeting categories. They're still saying work-in-the-employment insurance, the loss-of-employment fund, the birth stock, the contribution to the equation, and the reduction in the level of disability funds and finally the contribution to the Social Security and Insurance Fund. As we know, this last item has increased largely recently due to the increase in social security benefits in line with minimum wage. Finally, the question arises. A senator whether insurance costs have a greater relative impact on SMEs than on larger companies. The short answer is: However, it is relevant to the size of an enterprise. For example, one might be a total tax rate per company, as shown in the stress records of state taxpayers each year. It is primarily an insurance bill and a income tax on the profits of an enterprise, as well as a number of smaller taxes. The Ministry's experts reviewed the total budget of an enterprise in 2016 because of the 2015 management programme after the pressures of public pay. The data show that in the least of the companies there are more than 90% of the stress paid by insurance, but ratios fall to 40% for the largest share of Icelandic enterprises. It should be noted, however, that such a measure is not unique, but it provides some indication of the ratio of pay expenses for the economy. Madam President. When further tested in the annual accounts of the individual enterprises, it is seen that in smaller companies the cost of paying is the largest, but in the larger weight of other management costs, such as operating costs, market and advertising costs, and various office costs, they are relatively much higher than the pay. The Ministry's experts have already begun further analysis of the insurance market by sector and size of companies, including with respect to well-being, total expenses, cost of operating, pay and the number of annual jobs. When that work is completed that expected fall, a minister should be able to respond in a much more precise way than at present, but the general answer will undoubtedly be the same as before, i.e. Yeah. A small and medium-sized enterprise will profit relatively more from the reduction of insurance costs than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u119	Madam President. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for a very good answer. It's interesting to hear these numbers, 90% of the pressure paid by smaller companies than 45% by large. This gives me reason to consider whether there is no basis for viewing some step - change or some sort of discount on smaller companies. As is known, smaller companies are often around 97% of all enterprises, reminds me, on average in the European Union, I do not know the ratio here. Of course, they have a relatively large number of people in their jobs as a percentage of the total labour market. So it is quite a bit. Also, I would like to ask, " Might this somehow be linked to innovation or be some sort of incentive to smaller enterprises, which are in innovation and research and development, which, of course, are of great importance to our economy? ' There's always an interesting talk about the insurance policy, and I'm actually celebrating both the highest answers. Ministers and also because he actually asked me to ask him again in the fall. I hope he can approach me and tell me when that question is timely, because I understand that there's a lot to do, and of course it takes a long time to analyze these things. But I thank you for the answer, and I look forward to perhaps more answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-27-48.u120	Madam President. I agree with that. A senator says that the statistical information I preached here will be very interesting when it is available. In terms of his subsequent IRS step-change, I have to admit that I'm a little skeptical because, in most cases, I think it's best for taxes to be simple, and there's one tax charge that counts in general. I think that's something else we have to approach. With regard to innovation, I think it's time to point out that we have another motive, i.e. We have a reimbursement of the funds that go to research and development. We have a reimbursement of 20%, which certainly encourages companies working in that area. I think it may be a more suitable arrangement, but there are other topics that need to consider how the law was set out, and there are some adjustments to be made. We'll and we're working on the Ministry just these weeks to look into it. But thank you so much. This interesting subject was raised by a senator.
