ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u1	President of the United States reports: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council should meet on Tuesday, January 24, 2017, at the end of the month. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Get to Reykjavík, January 20th, 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Bjarni Benediktsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. Allied members welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u2	President bids why. All council members welcome to join us at the end of the traditional meeting period at Christmas and New Year's, and during the first part of January. My regards to the staff of the Generals. I expect all of us have had a good time at rest with family and friends and to care for other projects that had been taken care of by long - missing campaigns, political discussions, and other members of Congress in December. Even some have been able to indulge in occasional handball games or have reached the first flounder. As indicated by the beginning of the meeting, since December we made our decision that a new government, supported by more of the Council, has taken over. I present to her, and especially to a large group of members of Congress who now serve as ministers for the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u3	Borist has a letter from the 5th. Witchest. " Eva Baldursdóttir, Daughter of Baldurs, " "that she will not be able to attend a meeting in the near future. January 16th. So he took up residence at Arms 1 of Pirata in the district of District, Gunnar I. Guðmundsson. Gunnar I. Guðmundsson has taken up a seat before at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u4	Borist has a letter from the 10th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, said that he will not be able to be a senator in the near future. Today, then, at Council II, a deputy of the left movement takes up an offer of green in the district, Orri Jóhannsson. The letter of Orri Páll the son of Jóhannsson has already been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his seat in the Council and must sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u5	Orri Páll Jóhannsson has signed a pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u6	Borist has announced a change in the management of the Independence Party, so Birgir's Ármannsson is chairman, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnjörndóttir is vice president, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir is the secretary. There has also been an announcement of a change in the government of the Birts'future, so Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir is chairman, and Nichole Leigh Mosty is vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u7	According to 8 mg. 57st. Congress cancels the inquiry to a minister that remains when a minister departs from office. Hence, the inquiries made by members of the Parliament to the government need to be asked again as a means to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-15.u8	The President has received a letter from the chairman of the members of the members of the administrations, which refers to the arrangement to be concluded in accordance with parties at the beginning of December; to choose, with a view to possible changes, the President of the General Assembly and the prime committees and the fasting committees needed for the work of the council before Christmas. The conclusion of this letter states: "On January 11, 2000. began a new government, and a new increase has been developed as the Council is now meeting for a subsequent meeting. It is time to complete the agreement made in December. Hence, the chairman of members of the members of the members of the board wishes it here by responsibly re-electing its members according to Article 13. Conventional affairs, as well as international committees, compare 35. Congress, as well as presidents and vice presidents elected on December 6th. suggests that new elections can be performed. Under these writings, chairmans of members of the Government Group Birgir son of Ármannsson, Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson, and Theodóra S. Thorstein's Þorsteinsdóttir. Following this letter received to the president, the presiding committee was invited to a meeting yesterday afternoon, and it is not too late to say that the president and all the prime committees agreed on the recommendations and made this statement by their office. In view of what has been presented here, we have the next opportunity to vote for the new President of the Generals and the vice president, i.e. a member of the Presidency Committee. Therefore, the President intends to arrange a meeting at the end of this meeting so that such an election can be performed. I want to thank you on that occasion. Congress members for the cooperation of the short but unusual, even historical, time I have been in charge of this office. I also thank you for the office manager and all of the staff of the Generals. I can refer back to what I had in my words that General Assembly meeting was delayed before Christmas that the Council showed by her work in December that it is fully capable of doing good work, although there was not a temporary development of formal and smaller objects and not a career for the Council. I have a desire for its independence and confidence, and experience from Christmas can be useful to it if it is chosen. Even though Iceland's constitution does not continue to hold that all power flows from the nation, it is, in fact, meant to be, and it is in here, at the General Assembly, to which the power is given in elections. Well, that's from here on out, according to the events spread. It is here as the government of every time, the executives, attending their commission, not the vice versa. It is good for all of us to keep in mind. But this is no reason for further verbal prolongation, no doubt waiting for many, and if corpses are causing a number of challenges in the terms of the average period and for as long as it lasts. So you might as well get to work.
