ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u1	Madam President. In the council's work, one of our priorities is that of the three matters given to members of the Parliament by the President of the Council of Congress in a sort of seminary. We made a different issue, and we set the case for advice on how to get into that category of priorities. This means that it will be the next subject that Piratars will be discussed within the general framework of the General Assembly, since it was not approved yesterday that the matter would be promptly taken into consideration when the Pirantar gave the program of the material and a greater part of the Congress rejected it. This is the next step, which is the next way we can get the matter on the schedule. It's simple. It is the bill that by law, the Council of the Council of Elders is ordered to allow the government's wages to conform to the public's pay development. The law today says that it should, the law that was approved for Christmas, and in June it's supposed to be. Under any authority, whether it's the economic organization or the ASI, or if we look at the financial statistics. The court route is too slow because on Tuesday, right now, right after the weekend, collective contracts of 70% of payers may be upset. This is the opportunity of the Generals to take a good example in terms of employment reconciliation. We hope to have the bill as soon as possible. We'll keep talking about it, and if things go wrong, this bill will stay alive. At that time, members of Congress have entered the spring as the strikes begin, strikes due to the layoff of 100 collective contracts, to respond, and to use this opportunity as Pirata's bill has gained greater reconciliation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u2	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the program this week. I have found that the program for each meeting has brought me to my attention in a positive way. It's a fine, dignified president, because it's an opportunity to expand the discussion on many important subjects that have truly been shown during this week's program. On the other hand, I greatly miss the fact that the program is a date - making issue from the highest level. Government. It may be the other side that is tested, as many have noted, to the Supreme Court of Governments. Governments are very open when it comes to policy goals and plans. For example, the government covenant speaks of promoting a career in the field of prowess and public health. A government that puts the health system first could be a much more accurate covenant when it comes to them. A number of studies confirm that organized sports and youth activities greatly reduce the likelihood of any variation in behavior and non-supervised activities, such as these, are much more likely. to use drugs, but those who are active participants in such a job. I'm sure it will not overemphasize that we should look at these factors more closely in advance and direct action and government support contribute to the future health benefits and reduce the pressures of health care and the incidence of serious life - style diseases. On the other hand, I'm going to end up with a positive tone, a respectable president, commending the highest. Government, and especially the highest. Secretary of travel for the Office of the Ministry, with special emphasis on the rapidly growing sector of tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u3	President. Three weeks from now three cabinet ministers are in trouble. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment is yet to appear in the General's symposium and explain their misleading answer to the question of what. paritaprevir Oddný new Harðardóttir daughter on a recommendation to a committee under the secretary's office. V.E.G. A high water supply minister needs to appear at the General's symposium and explain why a minister threatened the sailors with a law against their strike. There is no cause for rejoicing when treaties are brought under such threats and extremes, especially when a minister had already said that there would be no legal intervention. You can't forget the threat and just ignore what a minister said and suggest in his unsubstantiated queries yesterday. This type of work is arbitrary and serious and must be explained by a minister. The prime minister was advised to hide information from the public, and when he learned about it, he tried to lie that the information had not been available until a council went home. The secret and the lie are serious trust issues, not just at the council, but with the whole nation. During a special discussion on Tuesday, I invited the prime minister to answer questions about whether the information was a matter of public interest and whether a minister had violated a code of ethics. Despite efforts to answer these questions, a minister questioned them. However, the Minister acknowledged, by permission of the president: ▪ I have never been in connection with this report to determine whether any subject was of greater importance than other public interest. There was nothing more than a public vision. The minister admitted not to have checked the content of the report for the sake of public interest in his initiative on the release of such information. The Minister of Prime Minister is the one who is detrusted by a lack of trust. She'll be here. First, the prime minister needs to answer these questions in the General's deliverer's report that he hid in the public interest and course of the minister of the Code? It is easy to believe that a minister repeatedly fails to answer questions directed to him at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u4	A respectable president. I would like to use the time I have in the public talk to be especially welcome to the discussions that took place yesterday regarding the concentration camps bill. These discussions covered a wide range of fields, ranging from the scientific denial of freedom to that of the individual in various ways. It was interesting that in most cases, if not all who spoke up, there could be much harmony and willingness to promote prevention. One after another, members of a congregation, wherever they stood, declared that education and prevention were the way to fight the undesirable side of alcohol and to increase money. I would like to encourage the institutions and organisations and members of this sector to listen carefully to these words of members of the Parliament, for it must be a desire for members of the Parliament to promote prevention and education completely, regardless of whether the bill will get a course or not. So I'd like to encourage all of us in this room to get together. It would be best simply to pick up the budget and make a quick contribution to the seminary, for many of the people in this suit went shopping when they came here and knocked on the door in December when the law was being won. At that time, understanding the importance was not quite so much, but a better person is the best one to live. I'm glad that this great solidarity seems to have been taken across the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to spend my time here discussing a subject that is of interest to us all, i.e. Our tourism, evolution, and its impact on Icelandic society. What a joy it is to see that growth has been abundant! It is very important that we arrange for the growth and support of this important work to be done in harmony with Icelandic society. Studies have shown that Iceland is generally at peace with the tourists, but they are particularly concerned about how growth is affected by general support. The average number of international tourists around here each day is some 45 thousand people, 20 thousand people during the shortest months, and up to 70 thousand in the weightiest. This distribution results from successful work in distributing tourists after season. That conclusion, i.e. that we have recovered during the season, we should make it easier for us to deal with the pressures that are clearly felt on our basic systems, including our health care. I've asked a health minister where I've even asked him. for the number of international tourists looking for health care here in the country during 2009,2016, by year and by health care. The corresponding request was sent in by the former drive. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingvegura Ingadóttir two years ago, I believe. Now the additions are the two big years. I also ask about the level of percentages of all visits to medical institutions that were arrived from foreign tourists so that we can understand how much more pressure is available locally. Furthermore, I ask for arrangements, depending on whether these are European or non - EEA tourists. I remind you that the largest group of international tourists is from the United States, and the second largest person from Britain today. It is important that we have the most clear picture of the situation and the possibility of future developments in order to take it into account when attending a future policy on infrastructure and distribution of tourism in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u6	Madam President. I'm here to discuss the activities of the council. 70th. According to Congress, it is restricted to the speaker's speech. In public at the Senate Hall last night. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and whisk. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, about 106th, was so urgent. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir directed his point to the person of one of the missions of the bill, h. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, questioning her integrity as a senator and her ability to care for the confidential and responsible matters entrusted to her at the council and considered it sad and tragic that the senator was one of the officials. That's what went wrong. paritaprevir Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. The dog. A senator and a traveling overseer, who had been exposed to these insignificances, could not answer for himself, and at this point he had been unable to deliver his speech and explain his viewpoint or come up in the face of other speakers. Madam President. Those exchanges were not acceptable. Hv. Sadly, members of the council involved in this matter failed to uphold the reasonable and reasonable rules of engagement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u7	Madam President. I'm gonna stay at home today. As most people know, last week's election ended. In our district, all members of the United States gathered together to meet a large number of people. It may be reasonable to wonder that the aquifers cannot be flown now, but tonight they flew in straight flights to Akureyri, i.e. Keflavour Airport. Last year alone, 183 thousand passengers traveled through Akureyri Airport - an increase of some 13 thousand passengers between the ages and the largest number that has traveled through the Akureyri Airport for four years. Now it is not expected that by means of a transport program, the airport will be built in Akureyri and the state will use wisely the money and products that come from a Venal tunnel to fix it and make it possible to use the airport as an international airport and provide acceptable conditions. I'd also like to say in this context that we're talking about distributing tourists around the country. We're talking about roads and stuff like that. In agreement with a budget board in December when funding was passed, Happus Road was also the case. magazines there. Now it is assumed that they will be carried out only if they are taken away from construction funds, some sprigs, from road roads, and from the likes of the district. Which is completely unacceptable. In this case, broken homes that have been invested in and large amounts of work in the area are affected. The funds of the country are handled well. They are to allow people to live where they want to live, and we are to distribute tourists throughout the country. Besides the big issue we don't tire of talking about here, we live in the country, that's for sure. The government's strategy does not suggest that this should be changed, i.e. to create an equation when it comes to international travel, such as in flight, e.g. ... forAustinents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying things with a what. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's party about yesterday's answers. I can see that people are stumbled by discussions at a council hall that resembles preschool talks and subversives to members of Congress who are unable to comment on such programs. I'd also like to discuss just one thing about yesterday's debate, the double - skined person who often shows up in the hearing that the matter would not get more at the council, complain that the council's time should be spent discussing the matter, but will still discuss it repeatedly in the conference hall and go up to more objections than I could count on the fingers of one hand. I think the movers would be happy to get the case on a vote, but this is a repeated violation of the Congress. There's never been a vote. Why not? Why don't we finish this? Let's not say a word about it if the senators are going to settle the matter. Then they can smile at it, and we can take care of it, and we can usually finish the therapy. We don't have to go back and forth. Senators do not have to fight for the fact that the matter is not usually handled by Congress and is not granted a vote at the council. Let's vote on it and see how it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to be like this and talk only about the activities of the council. I'd like to start by saying something when the members of the council went down this week to discuss a matter for a meeting with the president. It was missing in their opinion that representatives from individual categories were assigned to special discussions held at the council. In the case of the council leaders, the comments would have been very helpful, and this would have been made, but at least here, members of the council were organized, at least. A dozen if not nearly two, that affected the same situation. Of course, the reaction in society was one and the same, and I was repeatedly asked if the same confusion had begun again. I hope we senators don't make excessive use of this team. I also agree on this discussion about the alcohol bill, this unfortunate bill, when members of the Parliament talk about the great destruction of the council in performing it. Yet, members of Congress, one after the other, talk about this matter, out and south, respond and extend the duration of the council whenever possible, allowing it as I say the unfortunate bill not to receive their natural convocation treatment. We must have to. I'm an opponent of the bill, but, of course, we need to allow the case to take place. It must naturally be the case like any other, the matter must come to a committee, and then the council will have to state their opinion about it. I'll have to like any other senator put me under it. But let us agree that the work of the council is important, that they are successful, and that we all help.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u10	Madam President. Over the years, living has been a serious business, a cow of peers. In this regard, there is now a situation of intimidation. It is most difficult in the capital area, but it is also in the region where people hold back from building because of costs and uncertainty in reselling. Prices are critical. That's what the match wants to do. The newspaper reports in a news report today that both banking agencies and camp loans are active players in this area in the country, leaving many areas in a sort of wolf crisis, are not solution to their progress, and sometimes there are concerns that regional long - term interests are placed ahead of time. The Þóroddur of Bjarnason, professor at the University of Akureyri, points to the obvious fact that because it is difficult to sell apartments, there is an excessive demand for rent rent in these areas and there is not as much difference between rent prices in many smaller areas where prices are extremely low as compared to rent prices in the capital area. In many parts of the country, there has been a rise in employment and population growth, such as the Redfaring Sea and Bilddal Valley. It is difficult to reach contracts with banking agencies and apartment loans that set a very unfair and rigid standard. The majority of government agencies that do not seem to provide the local people with the services that meet the needs of communities. I refer to the unique progress of the camp loan fund in selling possessions in many places of the country where they have come in the hands of real estate communities where it seems to be profitable and in other peripheral areas, the property is kept in uselessness, in which there is an example of its being damaged and devoid of value. This situation runs in the country to a review that requires greater attention to the public's interests in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u11	V.E.G. President. Reading and writing has never been counted for education in Iceland, says Brekkotsta. There, the poet refers both with humor but also with realness to the fact that from ancient times the Icelanders have been a educational nation in their own way, a nice man said. There is evidence that education is near the heart of the people and that it places an ever more important place in society. In good days, we talk about an investment in education and research turning many times toward the nation in the form of innovation and progress in the field of employment. Even if we believe that continued education - based investments in the education system - will correspond to investments in the future, we are so quick to argue that we are living in the future. V.E.G. President. In fact, that's what I believe is the opinion of most of us. The education level of the Icelandic nation is high. We're proud of it, but we want to do better. What a surprise it is when a person chooses to ignore the advice of highly respected scholars who support his case through decades of scientific experience and research! Now I'm referring to the words of Dr. Guðnadóttir Theodend of the Morning Journal. There, a scholar who was well - experienced in the study of viral diseases in livestock and man. It provides serious warnings about the import of meat and living animals. Wants to protect the health of farms and citizens. V.E.G. President. Our unique position is isolation and the purity of farms. Here, diseases are different from those in continental Europe and Britain. Icelandic farmers were prospective when they stopped feeding antibiotics, since people in many countries today have been coping with the consequences of what they have been experiencing. progressive antibiotic allergy. I agree with Dr. Margrét's comment, who thinks it's a disaster not to try to keep the country clean. Let us now show that we are a educational society that bases its decisions on a theoretical basis. V.E.G. President. I hope we have the wisdom not to allow the pursuit of profit to lead to these things. Let's be smarter than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u12	Madam President. I'm going to draw the attention of the United States Congress and how we're going to operate on that terminal, whether it's reasonable and normal to split up the company in its operations, Isavia, on the other hand, into a commercial flight control company that is normal, and then a business that cares for the terminal. The third part could be the airport self-enforcement. Last year, some 6.8 million passengers boarded the air station. This is a 40% increase from year to year. According to one estimate, 8.8 million passengers travel through the terminal this year. That means we've been looking at an increase of 250 percent since 2011 in the number of passengers. This has called for enormous investments, investments that are of little value. 43 billion in 20121⁄2017, and we will see tens of millions of investments in the years to come. I think it would be wise for a body of Congress to start thinking about whether we should not allow private people to, and mostly with pension funds, to take possession of Leifs son of Erik's Air Station, to distribute the risks, and to participate in the huge building ahead of which is necessary and to give pensions an opportunity to invest and increase the money of our funds. It is far more reasonable and normal to be doing this than it is for a government company to build a terminal. This has been true in many lands. [[The president calls.]] It is rather an exception than a rule that a government company cares for flight crews.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u13	V.E.G. President. I'm generally not talking much about the after-up talk at the council as if something's been done here this week. However, on Tuesday, I have to consult for a discussion that took place at the beginning of a meeting on Wednesday, which was about the absence of members of the Parliaments at Recession and the Bears in special discussions that the Senate's office has made a definite assessment of what will show that when six years in time are reviewed, it is quite common to include members of this discussion. Of course, this varies according to categories, but it is indicated in the summary that it is not true that this is being held stiff on the part of various fields. Councilmen in this discussion, that it was totally unknown that groups were missing when the invitation was made. This list, I'm not going to trace it, I'm going to find that there are many examples. There are times when members of Congress, in fact small, have not shown themselves in special discussions. So I wanted to be a good guy because this point was given very big words on Wednesday. At any rate, I wanted to close the discussion in that sense without throwing in a few gills or such on grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss here one of the important elements in the energy of the country that are geothermalists. In many parts of Iceland, however, the day has come as a result of its discovery that there have been more and more problems in the use of geothermal heat in Iceland. We know the discussion about sulphur hydrogen pollution, about seismic activity, about the problems caused by decomposition, etc., but what we now hear in the news is that it takes 15 new drill holes on Hellish Island to ensure steam output for Hellishe activation. Plans expected a 7 megawatt drop in performance, but the experiment took an average of 20 megawatts per year for performance. This is really what we are talking about the cost that falls on the public rather than on the source of energy. I'd like to draw this up here because there's one of those under the new frame program as the highest. Environment Minister will probably measure up in the next few weeks. This is, in fact, a changed basis for the practical use of geothermals in Iceland. I don't think we're just taking in these changed criteria when discussing the frame plan, because as you can see from everyone who best knows on Hellishuk, it's all gone too fast. When we go too far, the overall interest of the public and the natural world suffers. So we can't have one more trip. I urge, more dignified President, that we have a handsome, forward-looking energy policy for Iceland before the one more mission will be made to determine the use of individual resources in the heat of the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u15	Madam President. I would like to prepare for the council's work, since the past took place. paritaprevir "Toad Björn Einarsson says about my answer last night, "where I turned my words to the back of my head." The head of a welfare committee, one of the carriers on the bill for the sale of alcohol at camp. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to pray with respect for having addressed it. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, not in his speech itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u16	President. I'm here to remind you that the next week's program is not ready, not even what matters of Congress should be discussed next week, although there is no necessarily planned date, etc. This is ironic, considering that yesterday we voted to take a case on the program, and it was denied, and we didn't even know what was going to be planned for today, as well as what was scheduled for next week. So again and again, I aim to have in advance the issues that will be scheduled for the next week and even for the next week, next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u17	V.E.G. President. This bill points to the adjustment of regulations temporarily in the new laws on the courts to make it clear that a committee that works according to Article 4. a Under current court law, there should be a discussion of the application of the court's office at the Court's rights when the first appointment is made. The jury is suggested to give counsel on candidates and to require that a minister be prohibited from appointing a judge for whom the jury has not considered fit for candidates, whether one or another. However, it is assumed that a minister can depart from appointing the one of the judicial committee as the most qualified if the Allied Council agrees with the Minister's proposal. Is this in accordance with the law of the current courts? The bill also suggests changes of dates related to when working on the order of the judge should be completed, order of the National Court and order in the administration of the Court of the Court of Justice, and proposed to be temporarily authorised outside the city of Reykjavík. The General Board of Education and Education discussed the matter extensively at their meetings, no comments on the matter, but the committee received visitors to discuss equality with Iceland's courts and general criticism of the arrangements for the order of the judge. In this context, there was a difference between the two groups. Discuss evaluations of the applicant's qualifications for judicial office, gender ratio to court, and how views of equality are considered in response to the order of the judges. Were even. Discussing that at the order of judges, they must take into account administrative law, correct the equal positions of women and men, and correct the rights and duties of the employees of the state. Madam President. A greater proportion of the committee points out that the role of a judicial committee, now appointed by more women than men, is to provide a minister with a reasoned review of candidates for the office and to decide which candidate is most qualified for the office. However, if a judicial committee has considered two or more applicants to be equally qualified, laws on equal status and male and female rights can be tried. 10/2008. It is clear that there are equality laws that apply once individuals have been properly evaluated. The committee discussed changes in the bill and agreed on the importance of being assigned to both men and women, but it was not possible to interfere with the Commission's qualifications at this time but to be directed to a minister. However, a greater proportion of the committee did not consider it advisable to add such a paragraph to the court law without further review and control, since it would be clear already that a minister should comply with equality if a judicial committee determines two or more equally qualified. At the decision of a minister on the order of the judges, a greater proportion of the committee stress that a minister has a goal in the context of gender proportions being matched among the appointed judges. The Committee presented a view that the current arrangement for the decision to be reviewed by the judges, including the Court's Committee, would need to be adopted. Based on these gender findings. The majority of the Committee, however, emphasizes the importance of working on a court order that the committee can get enough space to work on applications that will be received and suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of her history and the cohesion of the Committee, although not the wealth of a joint decision, which I find most distressed in a case as important as the restoration of interjugation, the huge legal right for citizens of the U.S. National Court. I agree that it is necessary to revise an arrangement of judges from what is in the law, but when we look forward to setting up 15 judges, who will likely sit for decades, I would also naturally be careful about our first order. That's why I like to hear it. A senator says that it clearly feels that equality laws are valid when aptization is completed. But I'd like to go further and point out that the bill listed here is clear permission of a minister to run away completely from the qualifications order and call for qualified candidates, as long as they have been eligible according to Article 21. The law. So I want to ask you why. A senator would think that if the Minister did not bring 15 people to us with equal sex ratios, he would be failing his obligation to this new crucial judgment level.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body also looks forward to a good cooperation on the committee, even though all of us would have chosen to accept this matter together or to agree with it. Perhaps I would like to make a decision that the sentence has already begun itself. It's not done with this bill. But I don't think a minister would be failing his duty if it weren't for the exact male and female ratio, which, of course, is also difficult for 15 people. I think she'll look at equality when, as we have been told, the committee that values the ability has yielded and brought in more than two people whom you expect. Of course, you hope there will be many applications and that they will look to equal terms when it comes to its choice, i.e. when more than two are counted as fit, which is likely to occur in such an extremely large group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u20	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer and for reminding me that point numbers cannot be divided into two parts. Well, I figured it out, didn't I? I have to admit that I didn't have much hope in the senator's response because it sounds like it would accept that here a list of 15 different persons would come in the event of their appointment. However, since these appropriate conditions are not absolute, the minister's ability to evaluate all candidates from the Commission and the minister has the means to deal with those of another sex in the most respected list; this is not mathematicalally accurate. That a minister would choose the sex that favors the choice between two equally qualified individuals -- forgive, I think it's just a fearful little requirement. It's just a law thing. That's why we want to add a clear sentence to the law, the aim of a minister not to come in here with an impossible list, but with a list of equal to gender ratios. I ask the senator again: What if a minister brings up a list of minor matters that do not meet minimum criteria for the equal share of men and women? Will the senator join us and work to correct it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u21	A respectable president. During the last term, much work was added to the appointment of the selection committee of men and women, the committee that measures the individual characteristics. We now have a qualifications committee made up of three women and two men. I just have more faith in that group than I do. Senator, I can't believe this group is bringing a very uniform list of skills. In the province, half the judges are women, so I expect a lot of both sexes to be applied and qualified to perform the judges of the land's court.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u22	A respectable president. Thank you for your historical background, and please state that I'm not part of the majority opinion. So I would like to discuss just the differences that were tore up in the previous answer. I'd like to reiterate the question as a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson brought in earlier: If it turns out that the selection committee and Minister will fail in this context, then it will. A senator standing here with us in a public assembly protesting an arrangement that does not respect the proportion of men and women at the order of this new court? So when it comes to the material conflict of the committee regarding this bill, it is good for three women to be identified as members of the selection committee. It had to be put on by law. It came into existence only by law. So we ask: If it was necessary in that case to appoint a simple selection committee, why can't we put a law into which laws say that there is a view of gender relating to judicial decisions? We're not just talking about this time, we're talking about orders in the future too. There is no guarantee that the majority of the panel members, even if organized women, choose according to equality laws. The reason for the need for a gender ratio to be passed in the selection committee was that it was not clear at all that the equality laws apply to the order of that committee. If that was not clear then and a law had to be set in order to ensure that the selection committee was set in equal proportion to men and women, why should it be clear in the law now that the selection committee should comply with its commands and ministers in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u23	A respectable president. I can't give myself how I'll react when there's a list here, no matter what he's gonna be. I look forward to seeing the judges chosen by the judicial committee and looking forward to seeing what the selection committee will do. The selection committee requires that both men and women be nominated. Then a minister has an extra choice and can choose between them into the selection committee. That's why there are three women there now. I think that's exactly what we need to look at, i.e. that the minister may have more choice between the people in order to include Judge. That is what we need to examine together. I know the Minister is ready to consider more adjustments in the order of a judge to the Iceland courts. We will then see that the minister is more responsible for the political orders of the judges and has more freedom and greater choice to select a variety of judges we would like to reflect the best society in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u24	A respectable president. In fact, a minister has this choice according to the law that we now discuss. The views we deal with here are, should we not guide a minister in his choice that he should follow equality laws? Because the law expects that, by permission of the President: From the selection committee's choice, if the Council agrees with the Minister's proposal to appoint another anonymous candidate who meets the jury's assessment of all conditions, to be accepted. Act of the courts. In that case, the minister can look to gender. But I can't see that this law should serve as a minister in any way in order to follow it. Well, at least not at all. A senator finds it clear that a minister should abide by this law, so I don't see what view was against just saying it, since it is clear that a minister must abide by an equal law in this new court appointed 15 judges. If it's so clear, why is it? A senator objects to simply putting it into the Law text so that no one can doubt about it and then all the committees can make peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u25	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I think we agree that much of what we were on the committee. The committee agreed on our objective and how we would like to see an appointed member of the Country Court. The reason why this individual chunk does not enter the law was rather clear in view of the majority of the committee. We didn't want to do it in such a hurry. We decided that if we were to change the courts in this way, we would need more cover-up and more reviews if we were to enter the law. I also think we feel that this is clear with the equality laws. Of the fact that a minister has this warrant already, it is quite narrow and has not been used. I spoke earlier about expanding the Minister's warrant so as to have more clearance after he receives the list of qualifications.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u26	Madam President. Madam President. It's nice to be doing a minor opinion in this case with a president who would put his hands through a global and educational committee during the last term, along with a senior officer. Minister of state. Both of them realized that in order to achieve such a fundamental change in the rights of the Kingdom and a new interjugatory phase, a parapolitist stand needs to be careful and to have it, and to have it, and to all others. Those who then came to the project received most of their thanks. In view of this background, I'm particularly sorry about the way we handled this small point in a minority field. I'm going to read our committee opinion in my part of the General and Education Committee as it stands here on a Senate document. The committee's discussion of the matter was tore up the viewpoint that it is important that a successful approach to the court order at hand. There are some outstanding positions to be appointed to 15 judges at once, and it is likely that many will sit in office for the next decade. In particular, the gender concept was discussed, but the justice system in Iceland still has a long way to go by reflecting the proportions of women and men. It is good to remember that the United Nations Committee on the Discrimination of Women in its past year, including the United Nations. to suggest to the United States that it was important to increase the number of women in the police and to the Supreme Court to fulfill Iceland's commitment as agreed by the United Nations on the removal of all discrimination against women, called the CEDAW Convention. The CEDAW Commission specifically stressed that immediate action, even specific measures, such as fertilization, should be taken in order to increase the number of women in the judiciary system. A report by the United Nations Human Rights Council of the United Nations of June 30, 2015 also highlights a broad range of judicial orders, including the need for the rights of human rights to ensure a balance of gender in the judicial system. The lower section feels that the opinions of specific measures to ensure the constant share of men and women in the new national rights of the United Nations are very well addressed to these indications as well as to the emphasis displayed by the Declaration of Independence, Action and Bears. That, in fact, is what the Bible says.: ▪ In a broad sense, justice is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. In addition, the Declaration of Policy states: "The Agency must build trust in the foundations of society, including the Generals and Justices. National rights, this new interjugation stage, are an important step in increasing the city's legal security. During Congress therapy, as I went along in the introductions, the overall review of the Court's legislation of 145th. The legislature body was strongly stressed to settle the matter, cross-group, as was the fitting of an equally important legal hearing on the fundamental principles of the legal state. In fact, all in attendance were behind a legal hearing, No. 50/2016, where the National Court finally became a reality. As shown in the history of the problem, the committee was, as was true. paritaprevir Overwhelming Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, prominently showing the importance of balance between men and women in the judiciary system, had different ideas on what action it would take to achieve that goal. The view was made that it would be desirable to take the step to the full and simply to legalize fertilities on the judgment, while notably the law on the equal status of women and men is clearly reflected in the legal requirements of the judicial court. It was also noted that such views were difficult to introduce to the judicial committee of candidates for the office of a judge, who was, in fact, a administrative committee, which would only be the task of giving a minister information about candidates in which they would take a position on which candidate, one or more people, would be most qualified to receive a judicial office. On the other hand, the decision to make a judge's order would allow a minister to fail, for example. we've got sex issues that need to be viewed as equality. The minority of rights in the context that the Minister of Justice establishes rules on further work of the jury is important that the legislator gives clear instructions, as suggested by the change of motion, that equality laws should also be followed by reviewing the regulations of the Committee. The minority believes that harmony was about the goal of balance between the sexes within the judicial system among members of the committee, but it disagrees with the majority of the ways that could be used to achieve that goal. The minority feels that the greater part of the view that equality must be considered by a judge in a committee party is simply not sufficient. The minority feels that while it is normal for a minister of justice to work in harmony with equality laws, there is good reason to tie that view in the text itself. The minority feels that it is a historic opportunity to equalize the proportions of the sex in a new level of judgment from the first day on, and it is important to defend with clear regulations covering the first order of judges. The lesser part mourns that the head of the General and Education Committee has not been able to combine the views presented in this case. This was contrary to representatives of the left movement, ◯ green supply and Pirata on the committee, as well as an audience of members of the Committee. As a result of this payment, the memory item submitted the following reviews when the case was taken out of the committee, with the permission of the president: A cross - political stand has been characterized by a metamorphosis of interjugation, for it is a matter of the only foundation of society, i.e. The system of justice. The minority now regrets that this agreement is broken because most parts cannot accept expressions in behalf of sex equality in law. The minority here reiterates its frustration over the dissociation of the Commission's work at the release of this first case from the Committee of the Common Government and suggests that the bill will be agreed with the change that followed by b-competation 1. 2.g. If there is a new letter as follows: Second word 2nd. Let a new proverb come to pass, saying, Let the Minister make sure that the ordinances of the law for the equal state, and that the women's rights be fulfilled. Under this opinion, we're gonna write representatives of the left green and the Pirata, the one standing here and the other. Councilmen Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir and Einar Brynjólfsson. Plus, there's a w-w. paritaprevir The Brjánsson S. officer of the Committee agrees with this. As noted in earlier discussions, of course, the need for equality to be stated in other laws is a small matter. Some may even find it foolish because laws that are clearly defined within that law should so clearly apply everywhere, but it is that for some reason, when the court system has had to be reiterated, it has to be specifically stated that these laws apply to courts. This is where I'd like to point to 1 1 1. Proselytism, No. 50/2016, where a program has been developed in a panel of suitable judges, a system that is much more detailed than you are to get used to. This is a five - man committee specifically stated that candidates should appoint men and women who should be ready to be either a guardian or a principal according to the appointment of a minister. The secretary, with the permission of the president, shall advise upon the order of the committee that the requirements for equal office and the rights of women and men should be met by order, and that is called to be carried out. This should not be taken into account. However, the fact was that when these committees and other committees were to be appointed by the court, this occurred more often than not that the Supreme Court, the highest court in the country, did not promote equality, considered himself to be superior to equality laws, and the male title. Hence, during the last legislation, the council saw fit to spell it out to the Supreme Court that he appoints a male and a female on this committee. If this doesn't have a belt and shoulder ties, I don't know what, that we have to put equality laws, and then we have to spell it into parties that they should follow them only because they've fallen into sin of equality, ignore them, and ignore them. It is certainly true that such a hurry is taking place in this matter. In fact, there was to be an even shorter payment within a council that reflected the publication of the work taken out of those regulations two weeks ago, an application deadline until February 28. While the Council is concerned with the requirements related to these activities that are related to the Commission to process applications, the Ministry is eager to run this procedure, although it remains to be carried out in advertising. Then it's only hoped that we can complete or accept a law before the application deadline expires so that you can start working on applications in accordance with the law so changed, because if we don't agree to this legal adjustment by February 28, then the selection committee for appropriate judges has no legal rights to do anything in this matter. We're about to give the members of the Ministers a review of the applicants' identity now with this adjustment. For a government who seldom returns matters to the council based on the Constitution or a file on a matter that has arrived, I feel that it is also sometimes due rather late, as this case shows. That is why it makes sense when it is said that it was uncomfortable for our proposal in the smaller part to appear so late, and we would have been changing legal laws in some of the basics of our crisis that the committee would have accepted our proposal. And if I only read it once to remind you how innocent she is. It reads: ▪ The secretary should make sure that the requirements for equal status and the equal rights of women and men are met. This is our suggestion. She's, for example. I agree with what it says here in Article 11. current court law, with permission of presidents: ▪ The secretary must take care to command the committee to insist on equal positions, as well as the rights of women and men to order and the names of the committees are called. This is a requirement for a measure of equality, now valid for a few years. This is not a fundamental change to legal law, for like a dog. Of course, a messenger's opinion of the majority of the committee said that they were equal laws on this. But just as with the Supreme Court, who was always appointed by men until the council saw itself compelled to spell it out to the Supreme Court that he should appoint men and women because there was an equal law, just as the council saw itself compelled to do this, we feel it is necessary in a smaller part of the Committee to spell it down to the highest degree. Minister we don't accept that she's coming here with a list that doesn't meet equality laws. We do not want this new interjugation level to become a male club like the Supreme Court. Of course, we want both sexes to be there at the table, as has become the development of the Shire. Why do you need belts and bracelets? In the case of the Supreme Court, this was because the Supreme Court always appointed men. If so, we will respond. In this case, it is because we are faced with such a big and important task, such a vital step that will affect for decades. If we raise the National Court today with a sex palace, that tail will be decades because there will be judges appointed for life, until they retire because of their age. Hence, responsible Ministers are a great responsibility and the responsibility of the council, which, after much, receives the appointment list of ministers. Therefore, I would have thought that it would be welcomed that there would be a clear objective in the law where it would be clear that a minister had the full support of a council to appoint women in the same manner as men in this new land's right, that if a minister brought such a list to the council, we would rejoice. Of course, such an article would also be to remind the minister to bring her with a list, where the sex palace is great for the council, we'll be sure to be heard. Unfortunately, you're never supposed to write songs like these to individuals, that this provisional principle we're considering here, the project that is described in the provisional agreement now ends in the summer. The hearing should be provided with a minister's list in four months at most. I assume that in four months, it will be the highest. Minister Sigríður Á. Andersen still minister of justice, though you may always hope that this unscrupulous government will ever be torn apart, there may be an unnecessary optimism to expect that it will happen before the summer. Because of what that minister has said about this exact case, I'm concerned. It's normal for me to feel that we're all concerned about the position of equality, not just in the judiciary system. This is the same minister who speaks against the equally pay, one of the government's policies, which in this chair says that there is no need to intervene in the specific procedure for righting the sex and that even the general success of the government is not felt, as she said, by permission of the president, to think of an order as important as judges are in this way.[] Some would say that there would be a minister who would be quite close to counting himself, such as the Supreme Court of ancient times, higher than the law of equality. Then perhaps someone standing by the minister might better than the one standing here will remind her of this gold sentence in the government collaborative declaration: A far - reaching sense of justice is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. I agree with that. I think one of the ways we have to achieve this is to make sure that, where power and responsibilities are exercised, men and women are equal to the table. Now we have the opportunity to send a clear message to the minister society and then to ourselves when we take the case back in a few months, that this new level of compromise will be reflected in the sex ratio in the community. This gives us a more righteous system of justice. This gives us a better court and a better community. I don't think I'm as optimistic as a part of the Committee that some member of the Committee was able to do so. I think we need clear lyrics, just as we would need clear lyrics to draw close to the fact that the Supreme Court put in committees and counsels as expected by law, man and woman. I hope that there was only the modern form within the committee yesterday when our proposal in the memory of that piece of paper was dropped. I hope that people have slept in the case and that their colleagues here at the council Hall will decompose this case to themselves and join those who feel that such correction is necessary in the law text, thus supporting our adjustments in the memory of the section. What I especially hope for is that. Minister, whoever gets the result, may accept the law we agree with, at least the discussion here, and the clear will that I hope we will show as much as we do in this case so that the National Court will be appointed as men and women. I hope the Minister doesn't fulfill the big statement that there is no need to intervene by any specific means in order to equalize the sexes of the judiciary system. I hope she doesn't keep that word. I hope the Minister sees that he is and will come to us with the list of candidates who are involved and who can work effectively for the next few decades in the national rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and for this discussion. I think this discussion is part of explaining that our will is the same, that we want equality to be achieved, and that we hope to achieve it deeply and that there is an equal law. This matter is very simple to me and very clear. I wanted to have a place to say to the senator if we didn't agree completely on how simple it is. The fact that equal rights of men and women begin first to be considered as suitable individuals. The administrative committee that is now operating will be the main concern. Once she's returned, we'll start talking about the equality laws. Everyone agrees that the Minister and Ministry has, it has been official, not always agreed on by the Supreme Court on the matter of equality. But then there's a law of equality, and let's assume that the Minister of Justice is acting as law. I ask you, since it's so simple, what does this suggestion add to my section? Well, maybe. A senator simply explained this? What does this add to today's system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u28	Madam President. Toward the end of my talk earlier, I said I was hoping that the minister would bring a list of 15 candidates in which the ratio of the sexes is equal. What our proposal in my section adds is that we do not have to hope, we can guarantee it. The minister has room, according to the bill we are here to replace the order of the Committee of Education, provided he takes in other applicants who meet qualifications over which the same committee has reviewed. A minister has a lot of room to fix the list he gets from this administrative committee. Our proposal in the memory of the section is simply that the council makes it clear to the minister that if there is room, then we want a minister to use it to meet the equality laws. It's good to hope, but it's better to be able to guarantee things by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u29	A respectable president. I heard why. A senator in his history earlier says that he would not think of this as a major change, but when we're making a fundamental change that is about changing the leeway that the Minister has, I think it is a fundamental change. For some reason, the General Assembly agreed to make this room a room for the Minister when the law was adopted during the last terms. So if we're going to squeeze it solely out of equality and not another polymorphism or law knowledge, I think it's a big change. I wondered, " Is it not reasonable to be tested for the appointment of three women and two men by the Commission? ' The general council agreed in perfect agreement to change the procedure of the order that both man and woman should always be designated. It has made it more equal today. I trust them to make a good list of applications, and I trust the applications will be good too. This must be a gradual development, as it turns out, that the sex ratio is equal in the regional language. Also, at the end, I would like to ask what the smaller part means by saying that courts are normally considered as equality laws, that there is good reason to slant over that view in the text itself. What reason is being cited here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u30	Madam President. It's good that the Board of Education is made up of men and women. Thus it should be in all groups organized by the public, whether acting committees, intermediate points, Supreme Courts, or Governments, and advice wherever they may be. It's just a vow to meet equality laws. Because of what? A senator talks here, like a dog. the original - speaking more part before, that this is a fundamental change. Now I'm not legalized like the two of them, but I don't see what the basics are. If there is an equal law on the courts, what is the basic difference to make clearly in the law on courts that equal rights will be valid, as is done in Article 11. That was no fundamental change. It was just a routine for the violation of the Supreme Court of Equality Act. Is there every reason to have such a monstrosity? Yes, there is good reason to stress the need for men and women to make a new judgment. In the case of 15 judges on one board, there is good reason to be sure that the European Commission does not forget its obligation to obey these laws, as the Supreme Court has long forgotten for years, but should still be law - trained men. The Congress had to remind the Supreme Court of this law that we're here to change. It is not a fundamental change to reiterate it, although against other sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The head of the minority opinion for a very good review of the minority's opinion of this matter and of our views that have been observed in the treatment of the committee as well as in this conference. For a discussion there is a change in court law, specifically that a committee on the rights of judges also discusses the order of a judge to the National Court, this new court being set up in which we will soon be disbanding 15 new judges in order to protect the state of justice in Iceland. A general and educational committee that's had the case for the treatment of the matter doesn't agree on the outcome. Therefore, the first issue to be settled by the General and Education Committee after the development of the government is taken into account, despite the fact that in all principle the committees seem to agree on the subject of controversy, i.e. that, at the institution of a new court order, it must be assured that a minister will act in equal terms with a judge's order in the court. But there must be diversity in the order of a judge, especially with regard to the equal proportion of men and women, in order to ensure the value of our legal state as best, the state of justice, which in Iceland is weak. Madam President. It is appropriate to speak of a court state today when a re-election committee of so - called Guðmunds and Geirri has recently ruled that the Supreme Court of Justice against Tryggvi Rúnar the son of Leifsson, condemned for the murder of the Einarsson of Guðmundur. The decision is promising good for the state of justice and gives rise to the hope that the case of other defendants in this shameful case in Icelandic court history will be restored. At the moment, there is no woman active in the Supreme Court. Legal matters are quite certain, as in other places, that judges are likely to judge those who are more like them and to judge those who are less likely to be bad. I wonder if the Guðmundurs and the Geir fiscal case were such an excellent example of rich, middle - aged, upper - class male being intended to judge some innocent youths in prison for many years after confirmed torture. It is well illustrated that judges as well as others have prejudice. And that the diversity in courts is one of the most important things to do with the order of judges and one of the most important things to ensure that the state of justice works as well as is most effective for all concerned, i.e. ... that everybody is equal to the law. For if the courts of the country are but a uniform group, the homologous group they judge will be exposed to when it comes to how the State of Justice treats them, while others will be treated worse in the court. A lack of diversity in the legal realm is the very result of the failure of the legal state to apply to all, and not all will receive fair treatments and not all will be equal in the law. Iceland's state of rights is young and vulnerable, making mistakes. As we see an order by a judge in the Supreme Court, in the Guðmund and Geirfjörður, and in a number of other cases in which the prejudice and values of a judge may have influenced and had been different if the Court had been appointed more diverse than that. That's why it's so important to say so. It is stated in these laws that diversity must be ensured. And that the variety will be guided by an order in this court, for the law of equality is not certain to lead the highest power. Minister of Justice on order in the court. The Minister of Justice, who has claimed that she does not believe in a legal system that should ensure the constant share of men and women in the business world, does not believe in such legislation, as if it is a Bible of some kind that you can choose whether you believe or not, rather than the law of the land. Therefore, we want to see that a minister is absolutely aware that she should comply with an equal law against the order of a judge in this court. Like what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier, these are 15 new judges we're about to appoint, and it is important that they reflect the diversity of human life in Iceland and that we guarantee the state of justice with the view that the ratio of men and women in national rights will be matched. We are talking about a provisional principle designed to ensure that we support our legal rights in Iceland. So I agree with my section of the Committee and with members of the General and Education Committee that the changes in my section of this matter will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u32	Madam President. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice Sigríður On. Andersen here said in the public address on February 7, by permission of the president: ▪ I would agree that a law generally valid in the country will, of course, apply to all areas of society, including courts. It was the highest. Minister to discuss equality laws. I can agree with the highest. Ministers that we must assume that courts and Ministers themselves do oblige when the order of judges comes. But we do know that history is not necessarily the norm in general. Therefore, I rejoice in the emphasis of a greater part of the General and Education Committee, that a minister has the goal of a gender ratio to be balanced among appointed judges and that when a judicial committee of candidates for the office of judges considered two individuals equally qualified to be sex-based to be guided in accordance with an equal rights law. Never too often is a good reference. As noted, today the selection committee is appointed more women than men. I certainly hope, like others, that this means that both accounts for the mind and experience of both genders are viewed in terms of ability, which in many respects is thoughtful in nature. I hope that the period in which a man - made viewpoints have been able to cope with the recruitment of judges and later with judges'solutions is over. At the same time, I sincerely hope that we are now taking steps toward improving our gender ratios in the class, especially in the upper court. Dr. Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, head of law at the University of Reykjavík, said, with permission of the president: ▪ It is important for the public to be able to mirror in courts, as is important for the public to be able to reflect in the general councilmen. In view of this, it is important that both genders have the equal place in judges, since society is expected to be appointed as men and women. In view of the greater part of the General and Education Committee, the following is emphasized, by permission of the President: The ▪ The more part highlights that the bill is primarily designed to disqualify any doubt about the authority of the judicial committee to discuss the application of judges' offices at the National Court. I, like many other members of Congress, hopefully everyone, cares that in the Country Court, judges with different experiences and judges of either sex will be able to reflect themselves there, in court. Therefore, it is important to mention that the majority of the committee thought that the following were the words, with the permission of a president: The more part points out that the role of a judicial committee is to provide a minister with a reasoned review of candidates' jobs and to take a position on which the applicant is most qualified for the office. However, if a judicial committee has considered two or more applicants to be equally qualified, laws on equal status and male and female rights can be tried. 10/2008, at the decision of a minister on the order of the judge, the greater part emphasizes that a minister has a goal in the context of the equivalent of gender proportions among the appointed judges. The committee established a view that the current arrangement for the appointment of judges would need to be reviewed, including the need for a review. Based on gender considerations. The greater part, however, stressed the importance of doing the order of a court judge that could begin as soon as possible and suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. It is important that the National Court establish the first, for as has been the past few years in the national courts, matters simply take too long to be treated and reimbursed. The Supreme Court cannot solve matters quickly enough. I am not apostate, for the procedure of the order of the judge will be considered, but it must then be considered in its entirety. I think it's important that the case doesn't exist because we just have to shut it down. The views have already been heard that the time of the selection committee is getting very tight to close. I reiterate the opinion that the greater part of the committee is accepted, so we can get it going.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u33	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is true that the senator says that the time is short but from the executive authority's point of view, it is urgent to conclude the matter. From where I stand, I see two ways to do it. One is to accept the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee to put emphasis on equality, footnote or in the opinion of the committee as it is. The other way is simply to accept our change proposal in the memory of the section to put exactly the same emphasis in the text itself. It's the norm. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson is a member of the Revolution, a class that boasts the equal proportion of men and women here at the council - four men and three women, a class at the Ministry of Equal Opportunity who cared for the party that he was raised in the ministry's name when the State Department was high. The minister of the Lord, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, sat in there. I'd like to ask you what. In view of all of this, in view of the fact that it makes no difference to the time we have, that we all agree on the goal, what the senator sees to it that he is not willing to support the suggestion of our share.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u34	Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who agrees with many of his observations. It seems to me that the exchange between us and those of us who have come up in this matter involves the importance of a minor change or major change and the need for a change in order to achieve this. The decision is not about what the ultimate purpose is. To answer the question without outcasts, I believe it will be clear enough - first with a change in the order of the Commission, the change that went through our last team, and then the reference to an equal law that is already valid - that this will be achieved. On the one hand -- now I suppose a question that will be involved, we can't guarantee it -- I would like to revise my opinion that this includes such a change that we couldn't finish it quickly. If that is what I hope not, that it must be considered necessary to cross the whole system, it will require considerably more meditation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u35	Madam President. Thank you. The Senator's answer, especially that he answered here without a twist that may not always be tried. Yes, we will have to continue to disagree that there is some fundamental change involved in taking into account the law on courts that equality laws apply to them as well. I'm sure it's, and unfortunately it's necessary, but I don't see it as a basic change, it's a simple correction. I also thank the senator for answering the question that she saw to it that I was coming here in my second answer, but then I thought of another, since the senator is so prophetic that he can predict the future. The question is, Suppose a minister does not take advantage of the legal scope it has to play with the proposals of an expert committee, what if an qualifications committee and minister cooperate to come to us 15 names that will not go away to meet the requirements of equality law? A senator joins in with me and others, working to adapt it so that there will be an interjugation phase here, no matter what problems may arise on the way from the Ministry to us, who meet the minimum standards of equality, that the council ensures and grabs the handle if necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u36	Thank you. A senator resists and the lesson of never doing this again, i.e. Visualizing questions - then there will be others. I'd like to make a point that it's been said in the business and the words of my representatives that there are two things that are really there, as I understand it. On the one hand, it is being measured as a reminder that the minister of the minister is acting in law, and it is spoken of as flexing this flexibility that he has on a larger issue. I think I'm right. But the second question is, if he doesn't make use of his flexibility, and if he doesn't do the law, what I will do to them. I have always developed the habit of not being preconceived by certain promises of a given situation, but I trust completely to claim that I will be a senator in the position of making comments to those who do not obey the law, I will take advantage of it. I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to come back to an answer to what later came to pass. A senator just a few minutes ago. In my previous answer, I'd like to go under. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, spoke in response to 1st. of the case where a fellow gang member was driving. A senator. Jón Valdimarsson, asked the highest question. Minister of Justice to the following, by permission of the President: ▪ Here is a discussion of the proper rules and orders of judges in the new Court of the Land. For that reason, I would like to ask the highest question. The Minister of Justice, whether there is any reason to set specific requirements for the appointment of judges, which include that, in addition to the norm, sexual equality should be viewed in particular. Of course, the purpose would be to work progressively to balance gender proportions with judges. Here is a new court of law at birth, 15 judges who arrive to serve there. It seems that this is a unique opportunity to equalize the establishment of this new court. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice answered with the permission of the president: Of course, it is vital that the order of the new court be successful in considering all kinds of views. - Then she's not taking the sex plan, take proben. It is very important to work there, using people with different backgrounds from the legal world, not just present courts or men who have done judicial work but also many other legal jobs, and so on. That's what the top says. Minister of Justice: ▪ I am not a spokesman for binding it into law not to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. I have full faith that women and men alike meet all the appropriate conditions that would be appropriate to lay the basis for the appointment of judges. Counts 'em out. A senator that with this Minister of Justice in office, is it really safe enough that we put it in the committee's opinion only, but not in the legal text, that there will be sex issues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u38	Yes, thank you. A senator resists. There's a lot of songs I don't approve of, but I do obey them. If I understand the question correctly, it's whether or not she's exactly named Minister Sigríður Á. Andersen can be trusted to follow a law where she has declared that she has doubts about those laws. I'm going to answer yes. And then I'm just gonna take action if it turns out it's not. That's all I can do in this situation. So the answer is simply: I trust a minister to obey the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u39	A respectable president. - Now I was referring to a word... - Yes, yes, I... - I'll just finish. [[No, you asked me about the Minister.]] [[Up front.]] I was referring to the words of a fellow soldier. A senator. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson, in which he specifically asked the minister if she did not consider it a reason to enter a law that would guarantee this, as the lesser part suggests in this case. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Does this mean that she disagrees with a member of her group regarding the food, that it is a basis for doing so? So I'd like to rejuvenate what came out in the second answer to what happened. A senator at the moment. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's assessment of her differences, what the lesser part of the committee was suggesting, is certainly not intended to impose the rights of the Minister of Justice in any way; it is merely a matter of restitution. As with the current courts law, only in a different place, we suggest that the same value here so that we can guarantee that the laws of the land, equality, will be followed. The decision is, in fact, just to add to the law some kind of guarantee that equality issues will be carried out in this new court. So I ask why. Senator: Does her attitude change somewhat to hear that a minister is not being limited to choosing suitable candidates? If she disagrees with what she says. paritaprevir Jón Steindór, son of Valdimarsson, that there is a reason for enforcing the law a specific set for gender?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u40	Thank you. A senator for an answer a second time. The question is, am I and what? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson disagrees on this matter, and the answer is no. We agree on the goals to reach. We agree that we want sex equality to be against people, as the law says, in order to order this court, as with other commands and cases. Hv. That statement is spoken by a senator, and it is truly derived from a course of restoration and emphasis on the class. As I have repeatedly stated here, my attitude in this matter is particularly related to the time frame and the effect of change that would have to be considered in a larger context. So we don't disagree on these matters, and he supports them. But we also want to follow through on the case. Then, at the end, I'm going to give it a lot of thought, for it has been repeated that this emphasis is most important for -- well, someone talked about fear, I'm just going to use that word, that the Minister of Justice won't go to equal law. If that is the case, what would this change if the minister was determined to commit this matter? This law is included, it has been impressed, on the one hand in the majority opinion and, as well as in the law and the changes in the ability committee. So I'm going to allow myself to say, as interested as I am and my party now, that this case will be in the best course and get the best results, that we're here to make sure of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u41	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for coming to the council and having this discussion with us. I think we can agree that the issues of young people are very important and that this group of subjects is one of those who do not have to have any group of political differences. So I want to attract the highest attention. A minister, as well as others, has any facts about this sect, looks for him to respond to them and indicate what he is doing in this regard. I view the community involvement of young people as one of the most urgent subjects in Icelandic politics, but at the same time one of the cases that seems to receive at least the attention of the government. In recent decades, as in many Western lands, there have been significant attendances in Iceland, and this trend has been especially evident among young people. During the last district election, there was a peak attendance in the republican history, as was the case with last total elections. The parish crashed from 73.5% 2010 to 66.5% in 2014. Young people's attendance has always been slightly smaller than those of other populations, but data from the Icelandic election indicates that there have been a significant increase in recent elections. According to the Habitat records, a voter's voter's voter's application was 2,2◯24 years old, e.g. 42% in 2014. It is an international problem that Iceland must take very seriously, as do other nations. Research shows that people, especially young people, are in politics and governments, including some of them. This high Council here, has reduced substantially during this time, and the interest of young people in our democratic system seems negligible. This is a problem not only for young ones but also for politics, a problem that is serious today, but that will be even more serious in time. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what we can do to cope with this trend. What will he do to cope? I think we have a lot to do, both politics and society in general. We need modern and democratic politics with a new constitution, a more efficient administration, objective and professional discussions, a greater public impact between elections, and so forth. I think such modern politics would especially appeal to young people, but I don't think that's enough. I think we need to make an enormous effort to be more supportive of young people in their community activities in general, e.g. When it comes to mental - health issues, psychological services, and children with a number of problems. But we also need to support more fully the volunteer work and the social work of young people. Research has shown that apart from being important, it gives young people experience, skills, and confidence in any part of the community. A powerful youth and social worker is one of the stronger sides of a vote, so I ask a minister if he thinks he thinks we're doing enough on that. What can we do more to support such a work? In this context, I would like to call to mind a minister who in current youth law is told that they are involved in youth service, by permission of presidents, in children and young people, particularly in the age of 6◯25 years. Nowhere in this law are there any distinctions between work with children aged 61⁄215 and the social activities of young people between 16◯25 and 16◯35 years of age. In this way, these vastly different social groups are put entirely in the same direction. This may sound like a legal thing, but it is not because this definition of crystal and the basis for both the laws and the general government policy. In other words, the law aims primarily at the work of children aged 61⁄215 and as good as the public's support of youth is becoming part of this community. Of course, it is very far from me to minimize the fineness and importance of work with children, but it is quite frankly said that the social activity of young people is completely overlooked in the laws and policy of the public in youth. For example, the National Union of Youth Association, LEPS, is an umbrella relationship between 32 American partners and a formal representative of Iceland in European Youth Forum, an umbrella relationship between European Youth Association. In spite of this, from the beginning this organization has been out in the cold with the Icelandic government, with the 32 groups of young people who are hearing under the organization and fighting on the banks. The total pay of the State to Youth Services will be around 240 million on the budget of 2017, and it has been similar during the past few years, with some 55510 million of 240 members of the 240 who have been assigned to youth. I believe, a respectable president, that we need to support much more with youth service in Iceland as well as with better equal talk between different childhood members and in sufficient support both in the work of young people and in the social activities of young people. The situation in this category is particularly unacceptable when we look to other northern countries where the support of the government against the young is much greater, more targeted, more systematic, and more respected. We are simply decades behind them. I challenge the Minister to take over the group of litigators and to have active conversation and cooperation with juvenile civilizations in the country of all sorts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for taking up this important matter, and I know that he is very well acquainted and well at home in this category, thanking him again for raising a subject and expecting a good cooperation with him. A senator in these matters. He pointed to me a few questions that I will consider in this talk. I'll first come to his thoughts about election participation. It is not possible to say with certainty that young people's election attendances are getting smaller. The election was not written by age or age group in Iceland until the last district election in 2014. However, there is some evidence that this is true. It is difficult to point out specific measures that can be taken at and against a gross vote, but many factors need to be considered in that light. For example, information and education are an important part of increasing people's awareness of their rights and responsibilities. The date of election participation is important in order to monitor this trend, and such information can work and act as an incentive for young people to be at their home and to take positive action. Then there are tasks such as shadow elections in my opinion of a very positive trend. During the last fall of the election, the project # I'm known as a shadow election in high school was conducted and introduced in high school schools as well as in high school seniors. The project was made up of the National Association of Youth, L.A., and the Icelandic High School Union, while funded by the National Society's Union, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and last but not least by Youth Fund. The Ministry has closely cooperated with the programmers and encouraged high school to participate, as well as to share in the work group of children's emissaries, National Institute of Education, and Krakka RUV on the development and further presentations of this fine project. According to my information, the European Union is going to continue this project for the next county election, and it's fine. The results of the Obscurial elections in the colleges gave some evidence of how further education and introduction might be, but the main findings that have been identified were the need to make elections and the importance of elections much better understood among young people. In my opinion, it is important to continue developing this project in good cooperation with all of the partners mentioned above, both institutions and partners. Youth laws as well. A senator's testimony was especially directed to children and young people aged 6◯25 years, and it is clear that young people's work with children may differ greatly from young ones. These groups may not be appropriate, but it should be noted that according to Icelandic law, youths are considered to be up to 18 years old. Governments in Iceland have long put more emphasis on child work and its scope than on volunteer work in young people. The laws of youth extend to 25 years of age, and they deal with organized youth service, not with volunteers, despite the fact that their work is much in the field of youth, but the legal status of voluntary work is vague and viewed by the Work Department. This setting and emphasis may help young people, aged 15◯35, or 18How old, and the importance of social activities of that age to be forgotten and it may be preferable to distinguish these groups and create a more varied setting as well as to provide different social requirements within these age groups. As a result of the exchange of 6 in 19965 years and 16◯35 years of age, a social pattern in Iceland today may be quite well established, and that definition can certainly be viewed and rebuilt in youth. But because of him. A senator would like to consider these questions, especially with regard to the Youth Fund, that it can be considered and improved, but it is a competitive fund and can be a useful tool for supporting the social activities of young people. We are starting to reexamine the laws of youth, including the treasure of youth, and how to benefit from it more than he does today and in what ways he does so. When that work starts to stop, I expect that I can have the best cooperation with all those affected by this group of paintings.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u43	Madam President. Thank you. The speaker for setting up this matter because it is important that we promote the social activities of young people, strengthen youth service, enable young people to participate in a wide variety of social activities on their own grounds throughout the country. It may be classic to point out that here we are the old people talking about young people once more, something we may have to deal with at council. We have learned that in so many cases we are not discussing people without having a regular and real conversation with the person involved. Here we are some who are advocates of children and thus associated with the UICEF Youth Council of Youth, the Children's Agent and Children's Choices. It's a thread that's important, but somehow it's going to have to be expanded, and it's going to have us at the country level, where we have the juvenile council that's coming to see the local government. It is a question of whether the minister or the senator has some thought - out thoughts about it. Besides, I especially want to direct it to the highest level. Minister, because I've heard that one of the Ministry's Subcommittee, the Department of Education, has taken the job of dating a young man in which he reflects ideas on the users of the education system, whether it's interesting that the Ministry did the same because there's a lot of stuff in the Ministry that would be natural to talk to young people directly. That's where I want, for example. In this context, what I've heard from the young people I've been talking to lately is that there is a huge failure for democracies in the educational, preschool, and elementary school systems to be followed in accordance with the main course. It's definitely a sleeve - up because it's a very important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson for bringing up this serious community affair, i.e. much too little to choose among young people. I believe the senator has a point in speaking about the importance of social activity in promoting democratic participation. But perhaps at first, I'd like to say that in my mind all community matters are young people. I think we should try to think this a little bit more like that, because aging cases as an example are also young people's issues. In addition, this issue is handled as much as most of the issues that take deep interest in their late release by money. The problem in which young people are involved in elections is, in my opinion, more profound than their lack of money. It inspires confidence in us politicians, trust in the Council. We don't buy trust. In my mind, it is clear that as we sit here, we have been entrusted with the trust to work in harmony with the ideals of our movement, but it is quite clear that we must consider the respect of the Generals. For I say for myself, and I think it applies to most people, that I don't trust those whom I don't respect. If I don't trust politicians, why would I choose them? We need to consider how we act at the council and in its activities, whether in committees or in the Hall of Congress, how we speak in the community but also how we speak and treat one another here in a public chair. If we are not professional, if we do not show responsibilities in our work and words, it is difficult to see how to earn trust. [[The president calls.]] In words and deeds, we must show respect for the agency we have been elected to work for, for our country, and for our good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson for requesting special discussions about this important group of subjects. I think this group of subjects is very important because it's because many people start working in social matters, I did it at the time, and I think full - time secular work, since kids start school, is important. I think that the way to expand your democratic discussion, democratic participation, start school immediately, school. We're supposed to encourage them, and we're supposed to be in a great deal of good cooperation with the local government level. I'd like to call attention to the fact that this category of youthful society was developed in 2014, which is from 2014 to 018. I feel that I have been a bit of an exciting job, and with the permission of a president, I want to quote the goals of youth - service counsel set in its time and hide it. In the first place, the national agreement between the plans for youth and the cooperation of every member involved in youth work. Second, participation in youth is increasing, taking into account the individual's needs. Third, young people are directly involved in the policy and decision - making process of youth. I think we've got a little bit more to the point here. Increasing all this activity early will have a very positive effect when we enter the future. That's where I think we're supposed to work with the local government. Following the development of this policy from the Youth Department, perhaps I would like to direct it to the minister that it would be very exciting if an assessment and a measure of success were made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, for the discussion and for the highest. Secretary of education for answers and conversations. I believe that if we want to promote the effectiveness of community involvement, it is necessary to begin early to respect young people's voices and improve the opportunity to act. There is no question that youth service plays a key role, with prevention, and also in promoting youths so that they can make well - informed and responsible decisions. I would like to remind people of the government's treaties: 'True and youthful service is obligatory, its contribution to human health, prevention, and the general well - being of the people of the land.' I'd like to discuss just a few things about promoting a young people's vote. The wonderful project # I was making was very prominent today during elections to the Council in the fall. Part of the project was Obscurial. My experience of placard talk with young people was undisputed and refreshing, even one of the most difficult tables I ever shared. It is my opinion that we should invest in more of these. Young men have so much to offer, much more knowledge than people expect about matters in our society, but unfortunately they are not given enough opportunity to express their views. Therefore, I think the best thing to do is to give thought to giving to youths 16 years of age an opportunity to participate in the next election in the country in the summer of 2018. This would underscore our responsibility to respect young people's opinions and voices. Another idea that I've wondered is, " Can't we look at the possibility of having indecision? ' Consider, for example, a combination of a book car and extra-pronouncers on wheels, which would be a place for the people to be chosen to do so. Moveing to their favorite places is not merely an opportunity to choose but an encouragement to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u47	Madam President. Thank you so much for this discussion. I am not going to discuss an important role, though, but I think that it is reason to highlight how our actions can affect the social activities of young children and teenagers, and that their situation can be strengthened and weakened. I mention, for example. The bill on the decline in election elections for 16 years. Happily, young people today are well - informed and more enlightened than we are, once in history, mankind is going on in spite of everything. I am convinced that this bill is a prerequisite means of strengthening young people's community interest, but it is also important to accept in a tangible way the responsibility we feel young people have. Then there are two basics for the council now that I believe have the opposite effect and that the situation of young people is weakened. First of all, the liquor bill. As a result, teenage drinking has been greatly effective, so it has been observed worldwide. Most of us agree that with this bill the bioavailability of alcohol will increase, adolescents will possibly be significantly increased as well. I believe this bill would be approved for the sake of commercial and commercial freedoms that weakened the position of young people. Second, I'd like to mention a bill about my minimum response to a country partner. Here we are creating an environment that allows individual rural society to behave like a tax paradise. It will be tempting to subjugate other rural areas in response and to be content with the ambitious task of just being legally bound. The first things that could be solved would likely be supported by culture, sports, youth, and other important things to young people. So I think that these last two bills would be a bad gift for young people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The author of this special discussion, for raising the subject, and the highest. Minister of Education for joining us in it. I just wanted to talk to a friend about a legitimate sense of youth when it comes to their involvement in a democratic society, and not only their sense of justice but also their understanding of the society in which they are going out, because if you don't understand what all the politicians are always talking about, you are not likely to have any interest in what they're talking about. I know from my own experience, Madam President, that when I came from high school, I had not received proper training on my rights as a tenant, e.g. and how renting works in my favor or trouble at the common lease. I know this is the case with many of my friends and acquaintances who still don't know their rights properly as tenants. It is very important, as we know, for young people to know that it can, for example. Do not throw it out on a two - week notice, as some think. I also didn't have a proper share in the Constitution of Iceland or in the administration of the country or how it worked over its heads, how it's chosen for the Council, what the difference between the General election and the National Order. These are all things that our education does not explain or ensure well enough. I had not been introduced my rights to the police, I had not been introduced my rights to the administration or explained any factors such as the economy, inflation, property, and loan. Youth companies can help with this, but the education system also needs to ensure that youths have a better sense of justice, that they know better in which community they are going to participate, that this can encourage them to participate directly, by elections, in political activities. I'd like to ask the highest. Education minister to see if he is not planning to promote the rights of young people as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for this fine discussion about youth and democracy. It is fun to hear from the minister of this seminary, but far too seldom have been the leadings of youth and ways to increase the democratic awakening of young people properly reasoned. Indeed, the social involvement of young people is of utmost importance. Engaging your democratic consciousness is essential, and that includes playing. The education system's a big part. We need training, instruction, discussions, and study evaluations to promote the sense of democracy among young people of the educational system. You see, young people are interested in their community. This interest must be promoted rather than choked him down. We need to motivate it to participate in the community where it is important that individuals of all ages be involved and that there are varied voices when making decisions about what is important, especially for the future. There, young people have much to offer. The assignment # I was so lucky to be allowed to represent the Independence Party, including in the leading of the World Assembly elections, were successful, some kind of shadow elections in the high schools, conducted and introduced in high schools, as well as in upper schools. The project not only contributed to simple and detailed information to young people about elections, about the groups in progress and policy matters but also debates between candidates in schools where students had the opportunity to ask candidates questions about the subjects who burned them. The meetings were extremely well attended by youths in all schools. They were interested and well - versed, asked a wide range of questions, and had been prepared in class with their teachers. That's fine. There they were, learning a lot. There's the education system playing a major role in taking an interest. I am sure that such assignments encourage youths to come to a place of opportunity and to be concerned. But not only are they interested in promoting their community involvement right around elections. This is something that needs to be going on every year. Madam President. In the United States, many young people are doing social work for young people. Admittedly, they could be more important within the administration, both state and community. Young people are not ornaments, nor are they to be treated as ornaments. [[The president calls.]] It is important that young people's voices be more attentive within the administration. You can do better there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u50	Madam President. Its sense of responsibility and development are an important part of the development of young people. Part of having a sense of responsibility and being able to take responsibility for their actions is that the individual has the opportunity to make important decisions so that the causal relationship between the decision and its consequences will be established. The democracy also includes being able to share in decisions relating to the great community and the individuals they live and democracy, which also include making decision - making decisions, the elected representatives, doing so by the common people. We, who have been able to make decisions on social matters, come to voters for our power and authority. That line should be clear, but it is as if they sometimes disappear, especially in younger ones. There is concern that the campaign program of young people has diminished. We must ask ourselves, " What is the cause of a well - informed and capable person's giving away the opportunity to influence his society by not participating in elections for district conventions and rural governments? ' We are well aware that most young people of the same time are informed, and most of them do not maintain a lack of self - worth. Likely, the young generation in Western lands is better and better equipped to obtain information than any previous generation. We also know that young people make themselves available in various areas of society, whether to protest or to express support for various matters according to events. Young people are not without help or are some age in the same time, so there is something else. What, then, causes young people to abandon traditional political involvement? Of course, that is not easy to answer. It is possible that traditional political parties do not appeal to young people and that they may even feel that they are overcrowded. It must also be considered in this regard how much trust the public, young and old, is in politics and the government. Many can comment on the legal rights of young people, their failure to use their voting rights, and the explanation that so many people do not take advantage of this fundamental right of democracy. However, a survey of young people, e.g. in the top grades of high school and high school, on their attitude toward a youth aged 16 to 18 years, they get a general vote. The government was right in order to appoint a commission to change election law, which aims to examine the basis and willingness of young men during this age of election, and who might see to it that studies of young people's minds would be made in order to obtain the right to vote before this change would be carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to say that there's no question that I'm saying something. paritaprevir Viktor's son Orri Valgarðsson of the government to support and encourage youths to participate in a democratic activity. I can also say the highest words. Minister on the importance of closely monitoring the development of the election of younger age groups among voters. We have and must work progressively on Icelandic education systems to promote the sense of democracies between children and young people. But as I said in my first speech, I want to stress that we here have and must set a good example. We must earn trust. The education system won't do it for us, the education system will earn us who don't work here. Also, the community service does not. We must earn the confidence it takes for young people to be motivated to select representatives or to continue to support them for fine works. The democracy doesn't work if the public doesn't participate, it's obvious. All this said, I'd like to ask a proverb, please. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, whether he is aware of the fact that international studies have been carried out on whether those who do not participate in elections early after reaching election age will then continue to choose no later in life. Then I'd also like to answer a question. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty and ask why. A senator may have wondered, " How could I arrange for a place to set before people? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u52	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson, very fine discussions and good matters, as well as the highest. Minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson. I'm going to start by saying that the young society, sports society, youth activities, various forms of leisure - I think we find that there are as powerful activities as here in Iceland and an area that is not only the most powerful weapons of prevention, which I think the government should use much further with much more support to the volunteer work that lies on, but a very powerful social skill, promoting community awareness and involvement in society with many ways. Regarding the reduction in young people's election, there are various theories about how campaigning is affected. The problem is, and it's been past what happened. address including, there are limited data, age-distinguishable data in general are not available. I'm asking the highest. Whether he intends to use his own resources in this regard. Economics have an effect. It's a little special to increase freedom, and less involvement in government seems to reduce campaign participation in general. Does it affect young people? There is evidence that this is the case in many parts of the country. A respectable president. Finally, I want to come in and see that some things have been done very well. At our place of employment, we can name a school council, a great idea. Life in elementary and high school is a very good enterprise, and then shadow elections as high as possible. The minister came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u53	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson for starting this discussion and the highest. Minister for our participation. Parents may not be fortunate in bringing potential young ones to you. Growing up is a number of road blocks and the circumstances of adolescents are different. In the community of diversity, stable technologies, and rapid changes, speed and stress, children and young people are exposed to the challenge and effect that we considered to be adults are not known. Residents are now increasingly relying on social resources in daily life, almost from the time of young birth. The day - to - day ministry, the nursery, the elementary school of daily vacations, after the day's death, is followed by the day - to - day ministry. It takes a whole village to raise one child, said Africans, and all of this is because parents can work and support farms. And we trust in the village. We have a great community service. Farmers have worked very hard in many youth and youth activities, and today these factors are believed to be important basic factors that have much to do with habitats. No one can overlook the tremendous power and loyal activity of the sports club, the sports movement. At that stage, thousands of young ones learn to get up in life, find stability, frame their time, work their goals, achieve success, deal with disappointments, and mature to gain both victory and defeat. This work is done with younger children as well as with older ones, a job that is likely to be underestimated. But nothing is simple and not all youths are involved in sports work and diversity, and a thousand flowers are expected to thrive. Extensive activity is being carried out far beyond that. Government policies need to be clear and direct. It still needs it, and it will be interesting to hear more details from a minister about it. At times, we pretend to be concerned about a youth's community, that is reason to keep on the watch. Before the last election, I was thrilled to experience a social and lively conversation with young people in the so - called Obscurial elections of high school organized by students of themselves. [[The president calls.]] A fine act that makes you believe in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and others here for the discussion. As a minister may have noticed, I did not get into everything I wanted to talk about and therefore plan to add a little. In a report by State Review since March 2013, the evidence directed to the Ministry that it, by permission of the president, made contracts with the country's major youth - care organization in order to make a clearer contribution for the State's contributions to the congregations, pointed out that a smaller youth organization had a great problem. I have already sent a written inquiry to the Ministry, but I would especially like to encourage the Minister to approach the overall group of young people and especially those who work with young people, as discussed earlier, to ensure adequate funding and a much greater success in business. Like what? paritaprevir Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir has not been very much informed about the State's youth policy. She was introduced in November 2012, and I haven't heard much of her since. It is responsible for this, and it is very important that the Icelandic government approves of youth policy. So I'd like to ask a minister if he's been meeting with the Youth Council on these matters and if there is any chance of seeing more of an Icelandic youth policy in his Ministry. As a minister came on, it is only a fund of youth that gives strength to projects, but I encourage it to change it so that they can go to business. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that one of the country's main sponsors of this case, the youth sector of Erasmus+ Plan, is under the supervision of one particular childhood community, i.e. U.S.A. The fund's office is driven by one of the country's youth society despite the fact that funding is intended for a youth friend in Iceland in general. Then it competes with another youth - oriented organization for strength from the fund. Does a minister feel that this is a normal arrangement, or should the youth thing fall under Rannis, such as the education part? You know, about a question or two. paritaprevir Jóna Sólveig, the daughter of Elínardóttir, is a brief answer: Yes, it is one of the clearest tests that choosing to marry in the first election is one of the strongest predictions of whether you will choose later in life. Moving a place closer to people gives me a good idea, and I've been primarily interested in simply moving the place to the old, good Internet. [[The president calls.]] Yes, it is true that we cannot buy solid young people, but it is still a very serious problem that the social activities of young people in Iceland are very expensive, especially when compared with other North countries where the votes for young people seem to be a catch. I don't feel as dwindling as I am here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u55	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. It has been a subject of many subjects, and it has been good and illuminating in many ways. There have been many opinions in this subject, and many questions have been raised in the discussion, which may not be possible in two minutes. I declare myself ready to do as often as possible to discuss this important matter. If I try to bring the discussion together, it is primarily in my mind to increase the availability of young people to governments at any given time and at the top of the convention of young people. That's the main line. In principle, we in this hall can try to have opinions about what youths think, whether it is in the realm of alcohol or an answer or a god may know what you think of. The fundamental thing is how we use young people to participate in society's workings. We must be careful that we do not necessarily do so on the grounds of political parties, even if we discuss the involvement of young people in elections. I believe that participation in elections in young people not only depends on the success of the political elements in the country. I believe that the election of young people and, in fact, all citizens of society are determined by the extent of interest in social affairs in the general population or in the community. That's where the main problem lies in my mind, i.e. what are the best ways in which we consider young people to be involved in society's activities and therefore give them all the opportunity to converse with all society groups in the early stages of development. I think it's our main problem, and I think we can all get together to see if that's our common objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u56	Madam President. We are at 2nd. for a new level of cross-cutting, national rights, and its residence, but especially on the judges'choice committee. We are in the sad reality that the General and Education Committee splits in its position on a single sentence, with the permission of a president: ▪ The secretary should make sure that the requirements for equal status and the equal rights of women and men are met. I'm sorry, Madam President, I only have to catch my breath because I was running down the hill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u57	You have 19 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u58	Excuse me. I'm going to repeat, with President's permission, this golden sentence divided by the General and Education Committee on the matter: ▪ The secretary should make sure that the requirements for equal status and the equal rights of women and men are met. You see, it is. It is a sentence that is involved in overturning laws about the sexual rights of the sex and following them. It's not a radical phrase that states a global revolution, no, it's a sentence that says it's a law of equality. As a review, the aim of a law on the equal rights of women and men is to establish and maintain equality and equal opportunities for women and men, thus equalizing the position of the sexes in all areas of society. This discussion has raised questions about why. The members of the council, whether there is good reason to keep these monasteries inside. The answer is yes, for it has been so that at the order of the judges in this country, women have been deeply inclined. For example, it was not until 1986 that the first woman, Guðrún Erlendsdóttir, was appointed the Supreme Court judge. And now 31 years later, the situation in the Supreme Court is set aside by two women and nine men. What do they call it other than sexuality in behalf of men, Madam President, when much of the man is given the highest court authority in this country? And that the Supreme Court considers himself to be the exception of equality? There is nothing other than male sexuality who bites women and is not decent in a civilized society like ours. Yes, there is good reason to have as took for granted as in the lyrics of a selection committee when it comes to a new level of judgment. I agree with what is said in the opinion of my share that it is not enough to appear in a committee party to look at equality. There is a good reason and a perfectly normal need to tie it in the text of the Law itself. For changes do not occur spontaneously in behalf of equality, though both of them are. paritaprevir Brurts the Brynjar of Níelsson, and whisk. paritaprevir and the head of the General and Education Committee Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir has presented that opinion in the 1st. about the bill last week. Both of them. You see, members of the council believe that change will only occur on their own, that there is no need to establish any laws and rules to bring about some change for the better, but it happens spontaneously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u59	It's in the law now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u60	Right on. And that we just have to wait quietly and adjust for things to change. As shown in the minority opinion, legalization is needed to bring about and correct inequities. It takes fertilization for women. It takes real laws that are respected by the founding of Icelandic society. Especially when it comes to the judiciary system and the legal system that is truly to serve all members of the community. As evidence of this, the United Nations Commission on the violation of all discrimination against women stated in the United States that it was important to increase the number of women in the police and in the Supreme Court to fulfill Iceland's commitment to the United Nations Convention on Discrimination of Women. And it is so remarkable that the fine and respected committee specifically stressed that special action, even fertilizing, would be taken to increase women rapidly and faster in the judicial system than it is. So bad is the sex palace in the judiciary system that the United Nations suggests that there will be sexuality and that here on earth the order of judges is varied, not a uniform group of people. Under this view, a more detailed and Fjóla report Hildur in December 2014 is entitled the attitude of a professional on the treatment of Antonsdóttir within the justice system and the proposal to reform. This is a major study of 116 pages 3 - 7. I remember, and I was now the reason I got caught up in the printer, Madam President. What a need and skill this investigation is! The final words of the study include, by permission of the President: The objective of this study was to review the attitudes of those involved in the treatment of rape within the justice system and how they believe to improve the treatment of the cases, in view of a low level of charge and conviction rates of symptoms of the crime party. One of the improved proposals recommended by the author of the report is to increase the ongoing education opportunities of judges and ensure that the sexual experience world is reflected in multi-organized decisions. This is two reports on the European Court of Justice and Justice, both of which bear the same well: The concept of sex must be taken with full weight in order to ensure more righteous treatment within the judicial system. This is no less urgent when we consider the comments of a newly appointed justice minister here in 1st. about this bill that shows total opposition to gender standards, we choose judges. With the permission of a president, I'm going to review this comment. In answer to the Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, asking for what? paritaprevir Jón Steindór, son of Valdimarsson, said the highest. Minister: I count no well - being to think of a command in such an important office as a court order is in a way that the proselytizing is to call upon the possibility of being done, if I correctly understand it, to be considered specific to gender. That's her opinion. It's the highest opinion. Minister of Justice here in Iceland and this despite the United Nations itself making comments to the sex ratio here on the country. Her second answer was in this discussion: ▪ I'm not a spokesman for a person's binding it into law to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. You see, it is. You see, women can never qualify. They cannot be selected on the basis of them. But that's how it sounds. Minister of Justice. Sadly, prejudice against women in the judiciary system is a deep and profound problem, and it certainly exists, unfortunately. We cannot allow ourselves to hope that the best way to develop a male viewpoint within the judicial system, such as the ability to evaluate judges will just turn to the air without any explanation and self - correction. The court's denial of equality, as in the case of the Supreme Court, and sadly, in the case of the views of the Ministry of Justice, in the case of the Supreme Court. of this particular bill and the fact that prejudice against women has existed in the judiciary system for years is a reflection of an undisputed system of government in which mental interest and abuse of public power is available in the inner realm of the jurist. Therefore, it is necessary for lawgiver to make a clear, clear tone but not just in a committee list as much of the General and Education Committee would like to do. So I would like to give my heart to the memory of the section of this split inside of the committee. I believe there is a benefit for the gender motive within the judiciary system, and I don't think it can be a very drastic suggestion when a minister is suggested to make sure that the demands of the equal status of women and men are met when it comes to a new court order of judges. A song is now starting from scratch, not about to turn some heavy oil vessel around. Now a song is starting from scratch, these rules are clear, not in any committee party. It's not enough. Let us see how this is so in the text of the Law itself. There's no defeat. It is an improvement, and it is a righteous attitude. There is something we should apply ourselves to because experience shows us black in white that the concept of sex must be bound by law, not in committees, not on sides, and not in reference. We must have them written into the law. Therefore, I support the minority opinion, but I would like to add a little bit to the fact that the committee has already split into its position, such as letting those words into the Law rather than the committee's opinion. I'm sorry, it's sad. Surely I would have wanted this to be okay, now that we're starting a new level of compromise and setting up rules about the selection committee and how it is assigned and how to operate. We can certainly do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u61	Madam President. Now, in itself, it is only natural that if the lawgiver thinks for any reason that he has to pry on things, he does and clearly says it. I'd like to ask, though. A senator - I know it's not a full-scale educational committee - whether it feels that there might have been a need for a review of the jury's evaluations and the methods used in selecting members of the committee. Because I think that in all this recruitment process it is better that the general conditions and laws and viewpoints that are fundamental to come as soon as possible in the process. This is the viewpoint that has been promoted, including Of course, the president of the Legal Society, Reimar Pétursson, who wrote in the Law magazine 2015, supported other viewpoints in order to increase the variety of judicial functions. But I notice, in the regulations on the activities of the judicial committees to discuss candidates on the judicial committee, in Article 4. there are five views that take into account, i.e. Education and careers, there are extra jobs, there are public skills, there are special occupations, and it is a spiritual aura. I'd like to hear it. A senator may also have been able to go in there and tie it in with a sixth on the gender grounds?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and good inquiry. I'm so insistent that any grade it is necessary to look at the history of the selection process. It needs to be checked, and we need to ask ourselves, " Do I need to change that too, not just from a new memorization point of view here but also from the Supreme Court and the Regional Court? ' For example, the Supreme Court prefers a temp judge himself. This, of course, constitutes the danger, if I may use that word, that the Supreme Court judges choose friends and acquaintances or someone who was with them at school, etc. We know all of this. We have repeated examples of the consequences of such friendly attention within the system, whether within the system of justice or in the financial system or in what it is. Thus, all of us must want to make the career and the setting of our choice more professional and take into account the process of viewpoints in terms of increasing diversity when it comes to who are appointed by judges here. Then there's the gender thing to be the ones we're looking at, so I think we need to look at this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u63	Madam President. I want to know what's wrong. A senator believes, because in these specific circumstances, there are many judges at once, that this is particularly important, but also whether it considered them sufficient if we revised these rules and keyed up in this equality policy there - a minister receives the fitting assessment and then is bound by equality and positive discrimination and what this is now all called, whether it was enough to enter there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u64	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He asks here if the equality laws are sufficient, whether they are sufficient to secure - and strengthen the principle of a selection committee. [[Up front.]] I'm so insistent that I accept the less part of it, and I'm inclined to believe that it needs to be legally bound. Although there are laws of equality in the country, the sad fact is that there are too many people who feel that they are not good enough, are not like other laws, that they should not follow as closely as any other law. But at 1 Corinthians 15: 58, the Bible says: "There is no resurrection of the righteous one, but there is no resurrection of the righteous one. " About, when asked whether equality laws are valid, Minister of Justice says that they agree that laws in the country are valid for all aspects of society. I would have wanted her to say the exact words: Of course, there are equality laws here, and we will respect them in every respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u65	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to celebrate because I've been able to make a reply before Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottarsonppé, or herra Proppér, as he is now known, but I have to consider the facts. A bad sexist in the judiciary system - I've been in this court system for 30 years, there's no bad sexist. The only cap on the sex is in the Supreme Court. Hv. A senator here speaks, I can't understand the speech any other than that, that there's the right thing to put on the voodoo. By setting sexuality, you take the important rule that the most suitable office wherever it is is should always be given to them. Isn't that right, if we make such a rule? I know the senator will say, "Wait, women are no more incompetent than men." That's not what I'm saying, either. It's about applicants every time. We have this rule of every job. If we are now suddenly going to say that this rule does not apply, neither does code code, that is discrimination, then it is against any principle on this. So sexuality doesn't work out. For enforcing this into the law, there are general laws that make us not need to set the same principles in all our special laws. The constitution is always valid. There's always a law on anything. We don't need to put such texts into every single law we put in order to tie something up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u66	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for his answer. Of course, I don't agree with what. A senator not to lay hands on women in the judiciary. Hv. A senator mentions the Supreme Court, the highest court in the country. It has leaned on women for decades, if not for hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u67	There was no avoiding it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u68	Because he speaks against sexuality, I will return to it if it is. A senator has not heard my speech, however, that it is the sex hall of the judiciary system that identifies the United Nations as critical and suggests specific actions such as sexuality to correct that point. The United Nations sees that we have not been meeting the conditions the committee puts us on the basis of agreements to take over all discrimination against women. Hv. A senator asks: "Why should we put this into these laws if laws such as equality are predominant? There is an example. [[Up front.]] There is an example in the law of the court, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ The secretary must take care to command the committee to insist on equal positions, as well as the rights of women and men to order and the names of the committees are called. There are examples of taking up equality laws and putting them in other laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u69	That's the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u70	That's the law on the courts. For what? Because it has to do with women in the judiciary system. You can't bygones that you can't look. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, no matter how hard you struggle with it. It leans on women and has to be passed on by law. It is not enough to say that there are equality laws. There are precedents for this. [[The president calls.]] We should start now that we are entering a new intermediate level, starting from scratch and keeping these in the lyrics of the Law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u71	V.E.G. President. Although the United Nations has said that, the nonsense will not be more intelligent.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u72	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u73	Even if someone has ever put in law, probably 2009 to 2013, some nonsense that was often the case, there is no need to repeat it now. You don't have to do that. A constitution is always in effect, and general laws are in force that forbid any form of discrimination. It's not complicated. There's been no leaning on women for years and decades. It's just wrong. You need to realize that there are certain requirements for a person to be a judge. If there's no woman, there's no lawyer, there's no woman judge.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u74	There's a lot of women lawyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u75	Yeah, I know, but it doesn't have a long story, so do you. Senator. As I have said before, I am not an old man; but I was not many women when I was and my name was. [[For example, you still look that way.]] Yeah, I went to health work, and it was measured out. The body was measured as if it were 70, not 56 years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u76	Madam President. It's all right. paritaprevir The royal Brynjar of Níelsson knows about the United Nations and that he knows better than the United Nations. [[Up front.]] It's always nice when you think you know better. For this nonsense, for what it's worth. A senator was quoting, which is a recommendation by the United Nations and named on their behalf, on the elimination of all discrimination against women, it was in the past year, it was 2016, but not 2013, so let us also keep all the facts clear. For his deportation here and reason, that there can't be a law and put it into other laws, now it's even so that he voted by the appointment of an equal law. He voted with it. There is an example here in the law, and there is an example. There's a senator involved. Why, then, should he not now be in law when it is due to a new level of judgment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u77	A respectable president. This is an informative and interesting discussion. I'd like to talk to you for a second and ask you what. During the last term, a senator of the changes we made to the state of Congress was to ensure that the Supreme Court and Others made up of men and women in order to ensure equality. It was the way we decided to go to improve this process and to ensure that the Lawgiver's will was made clear that we wanted equality and equality laws to be guided. Counts 'em out. Is that not enough for a senator? What has changed since the council decided? What Has Changed? Why does she not trust this action, and why does she not trust in equality, which is the norm in the country and the highest law? The Minister of Justice has declared that she thinks she is bound to the decision of the judges, who must appear before the council with a final list? I just want the answers. What is it that adds to this matter that we are discussing here? Why can't we trust the process the Council decided to put into it? Why can't you sleep? A senator did not trust the laws of the land and the highest. Minister of Justice has declared the value? What is the adjustment we discuss here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u78	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for his answer. Maybe I'd like to tie it around for a second. A member of the Parliament, the matter of choice. The senator's referral is not the selection committee that's being discussed here, that's why the selection committee's not even there, and we've been considering here in this bill. So when we're talking about the selection committee, we're talking about the old selection committee, not this new one. I also ask them, " Won't we, in the light of experience and the light of history, have to ensure, in all ways, that they are held in high esteem? ' Because we have examples of the lack of equality laws, unfortunately. Maybe we need to revise our equality laws. Perhaps we need to revise them and add monitoring and repairs, etc. to strengthen them. But we're not just to unite about that, boy. paritaprevir Árnason, to make sure that the women are not brought back to court, and especially when a new legal minister does not speak as strongly of gender and the need to uphold them when there is a new level of compromise? I think and I believe it. paritaprevir Will Árnason agrees with me in making this more necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u79	A respectable president. That's exactly what I was pointing out is that the qualifications committee that will deal with the suggestions that come in to the minister, and a minister has declared that they need to comply with equality laws, it's new because the Council changed the law, and then the motion of it is different. It is the qualifications committee that will mention the list of qualified ones or those qualified for the ministry. It's the law of equality. Once the fittest is found, they will come and take over. It's at the point the Minister takes over. In this exact process, there are examples of how current equality laws have worked. That's why I always try to ask, "What's the change we're going to make here?" I'm just asking them straight, is it about entering the law to tell the minister to comply with the law? Is that what we're doing? [[The president calls.]] Or is it about to explain how a minister should use his space?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his answer again. That's right, there's a lot of room for Ministers and for the Council of Justice. But I may also want to cut down the same knee and answer to the question. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, that it is a statute for the decree of the judges of the land where the law of equality is taken. Not without reason. For good reason, the memory section feels that the text of the Law itself requires that a minister be careful that the requirements for equal status and equal rights of women and men are met. [[Foreground on these questions...]] It's not a radical text, Will Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u81	What does it add?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u82	This ensures that this is included in the lyrics rather than in the members of a committee. This ensures that this is included in the text exactly as in the courts law. Why not now, then, why was it possible? [[Up front.]] I don't understand this resistance, Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand this resistance that's presented in this case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason and what? paritaprevir Brubbur the son of Brynjar.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u83	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. I'm going to make a confession that this is one of the many matters that have come out here that I have not sunk into with great intensity, rather been diving on the surface, and have allowed me to listen to the discussion. In fact, I think we should use the seminar more to converse with one another, even if we agree, discuss between ourselves, and try to get closer to the core of the matter. But I took a silent course to keep confessing that I simply don't understand anything when it comes to the compromise. The General and Education Committee, theirs. Councilmen here have given it support. I think there's an absolute discrepancy in their language. In one word it is said that the putting of this law or this sentence into the Law is too burdensome; this is too soon to be done, but it is not right to add it without further instruction and authority. But in the other word, it is said that it is simply clear that a minister is acting in harmony with equality laws. So what's the problem? What's the difference? I haven't had the answer. It's all right. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, has indicated that he wants to answer, that he is a legalist, and that he has much more knowledge of this matter than I am, he may be able to explain it to me. If the conclusion is the same as the case. The members of the majority have been talking about, that a minister must always comply with equality - what's the problem with you, why don't you just put this into the report? is my interpretation of that language - what's the problem with having it in the lyrics?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u84	It's a problem, then.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u85	If it's no problem, then what? paritaprevir If Brynjar's Níelsson, would it not be for some work to have this in the Law text, to reconcile the matter from a committee, that the administrative point showed in its action that he means something with his emphasis on equality in the beginning of the government business? Wouldn't that be just symbolic, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, to put this into the law text? They show that they mean something by saying something in the Treaty, by permission of presidents: ◯Service in a broad sense is an integral part of a just and reasonable society. If this doesn't change anything like what? To convince the rest of us that this doesn't make any difference, the commander after the other has come up in the platform. What's wrong with you? - Then why isn't it just in the lyrics? That's what this case said. paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir. President of the General and Education Committee, by permission of the President: ▪ At the decision of a minister on the order of the judges, a greater proportion of the committee stresses that a minister has a objective in the context of gender proportions to be balanced among the appointed judges. I'm a very simple man. There are a lot of things in this world I don't understand. That's one of the reasons why we had it. The main members of the majority of this section contradict themselves in every way. On the one hand, they say that this law is of no importance because it is part of the report, and there is no need to be in the law. However, they are willing to take the matter into account in order to avoid the importance of the law. This is completely incompatible. We're not here in some void. It may be that while this is a nice hall and it's good to sit with good friends and listen to one another and warm up here at the end of the words, we are not here in some void. Hv. In many parts of the world, members of the Parliament have made extensive comments on this subject. V.E.G. Minister has expressed himself. A few of them. For example, it appears that some members of the council are members of the Parliament. have a different view of equality and whether there is any difference in sex status in the community, e.g. In terms of pay. Of course, this affects us in here when we're doing the law. It's been a pretty good word for the highest. Minister of Justice in this regard. It is no wonder, therefore, and it should be understood that in this atmosphere, any reasonable senator might simply want to add to the lyrics of a law that, at the order of a judge in the land's rights, they will be governed by equality. What's the big harm? Equal law has been in effect here since 2008. Isn't that the right thing to remember about me, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u87	He cries the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u88	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Still, we're going to pretend it's just changed everything. Will we act as if the law words to a minister were not symbolic at all? Perhaps it is a legal requirement for a minister to comply with equality in this. If the appeal is present in the report, what is the problem with its being present in the Law text itself, in a language that should be the main thing to strive to cooperate with because this is a significant change in the judicial system of the country? I'm sorry that the majority of the parts are not more moved than they are to try to settle with the smaller parts of this matter, especially when each situation is due. The superintendent comes along and says that it really doesn't matter. Why, then, is there a difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u89	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé says that it is symbolic of enforcing the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u90	Among other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u91	Nothing important is just symbolic, has no business in the law. We may as well put the Constitution's equality laws into every law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u92	Is it worse that it is done?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u93	Of course, there is no doubt about it. Senator. The point is, of course, that this is of no importance in the matter of being demonized by this transformation because the minister is always tied up by ordering the fittest. When there are two equally qualified men, he has to look at these opinions on the proportions. It's so simple. It's not complicated. But it's as if there's some internal misunderstanding in it here with this modification proposal, I think it seems to me that with its less part it seems that the Minister can go past the committee with the food of the fittest. The Minister will never be able to do that. We should not be putting some symbolic things, some unnecessary things, into lyrics. [[Up front.]] It's got a bad blow on it. The change in the committee was because the Law, previously valid, assumed that each individual was designated. Then you won't work the law. [[Up front.]] Then it had to be fixed. It was very normal. It's a whole different thing than this. So let's just make it clear that there's no need for this, it seems that the idea behind this is that a minister can pass the committee's assessment, but there's a big misunderstanding if he thinks so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. At the same time, I apologize for not being clearer than I was, for it is obvious to him that he has not fully understood me, unless he has chosen to take it from my language that was suitable for him. But I'm gonna go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In my speech, I mentioned that these were symbolic. [[Up front.]] Maybe it'd be better if it were. One senator explained how he felt it was there. I mean, I can't insist that he does, but wouldn't it be nice to put this in there to settle the new judgment level? We're legislatures here. We'll put the law on it. We don't have a committee opinion. What is stated in the law clearly shows our will. In this bill for law, a minister is given much leeway. It says, with permission from the President, regarding the ability of candidates: However, if the Council agrees with a secretary's proposal for a warrant to appoint another noted candidate, who will satisfy the judicial committee of all conditions of 2 and 3 mg. Twenty-one. fix these.How much more so that they don't need to be put in touch with the others. Again. I didn't come here to put a blow in the mouth, not to try to strike some political cones or try to be clever or to talk about what some senators are talking about, or what it is that men do to coddle themselves into a chamber. I came to try to get an explanation for this. [[To the point: Well, you've already got it.]] If this is not a problem, why is it not simply put into the law to make peace with this enormously important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u95	V.E.G. President. I'm not ready to settle for someone that's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u96	Like a court law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u97	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u98	Does it cut anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u99	No, is it gonna hurt anything not to have them? I'm just saying, it doesn't matter. I don't understand why people make such a suggestion that doesn't matter. The lyrics are clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u100	It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u101	No. It is important because, in effect, the law on the rights of men and women is the norm. There won't be a difference. That's why there's no need for this. And therefore I say, What is the purpose of this? Is the only purpose of trying to somehow achieve that a minister does not need to apply the Law text? What is the point of this? Can somebody tell me? Well, maybe. A senator told me? It's not a harm? Should I put in all the bills a pile of words and lyrics because it's not bad? [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, there's no one to blame. [[Get in front of me, you're so windy.]] Clearly, this has something else to do with purpose. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u102	A respectable president. Now I'm not as clever and clever as that. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son to see what other purpose my share is looking forward to reaching the highest decisions. The Justice Minister of the Independence Party. I just admit I don't quite get it. But, hey. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson has more Congress experience than I, and he knows the claws in this room better than I do. What's the damage to having it inside? As I said before, this lifts it up, it puts it into the law. Not ready to install someone unnecessary? They didn't put in the law on the committee? Was there no need to tap a minister, by permission of the president: ▪ The secretary should make sure that the requirements for equal status and the equal right of women and men [on counsel and committee] are met. Wasn't a minister bound by equality, too?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u103	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u104	Why? Okay, then I'm, like I've said before, completely broke in this. This is the case, and even the expression is taken out of this. [[The president calls.]] That's super stiffer than that. I'm just gonna have to say it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u105	Madam President. It could be that people are talking on the cross because everyone agrees on the equality laws, that they mean when they're equally qualified. But I have compassion for my opinion of the object, in contrast to the oar. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, the son of Ottharson Proppér, that this is not symbolic, but it may be necessary. You see, it has been heard in the discussion that the courts law is a custom that goes further in equality. I agree with what. paritaprevir Son of Níelsson's armor that not all the rules should be put into every special law to penetrate all the created things, but when there is a difference between this, and this has not necessarily been heard in any back room, but has been spoken of out loud, I feel that it is quite possible for a man to use something called, I don't know, now I'm waving some legal thing - can men call this a precaution?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, but I must correct him, as I would correct him. paritaprevir Brunes the son of Níelsson. I didn't say it was just symbolic, I think it was necessary. I agree completely with what. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson. On the other hand, I believe that this is also symbolic, and there is actually an extra bonus that follows that the lawgiver's will in these matters is made very clear. Other than that, I agree with it. Einarsson As to the concern of the legal law as a legal law, it is a matter of more equality. These words need to be recorded in the Law text, especially when each senator after his death has surfaced here and said that it really doesn't matter. The change, I guess, is none. The bad consequences of this are no, in the opinion of the majority people, as I have understood them. I just don't see the problem. I have to admit it here. I just don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u107	Madam President. Here we all agree that the Court should reflect equal sex ratios as one should use the articles of equality that determine how to handle a decision when two parties are equally qualified. I suggest that those who have participated in these discussions will sit over them with a strong cup of coffee and discuss how to ensure that they will be performed in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u108	A respectable president. There's not much more to say. I support any suggestions that include a strong, good cup of coffee. So I must welcome this proposal, even that we would walk him outside and maybe take a bang. paritaprevir Bundur the Brynjar of Níelsson with us on that journey. Again, I climbed to the point: I wondered, " The hardness of this statement. ' I find that more than half of the debate is a perfect internal contradiction. A committee, being so rigid about this but saying at the same time that it doesn't matter. I don't know. Do people look forward to this binding of ministers to respecting the law of equality? That's not always the way they do it. The consequences have not always been particularly severe, have they?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u109	President. There are two things I would like to point out, one at a time. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé said that the greater part had spoken a great deal against this case. That's not quite right because of what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson asked the exact highest question. A minister would not do well to have the viewpoint, since there would be a special view of equality between the sexes. As a result, if one of the board of directors who has expressed themselves in this discussion, then why is it not easy to include this into the text of the bill? The other thing I wanted to come up with is that it is not uncommon for the law to double. My favorite is 108. g. Act on elections to the Generals where five percent apply to votes needed to get an economist, which is also included in the constitution. So a double law is being taken into account in the constitution. This is not uncommon. The damage that may be considering here is that there is a possibility that equality laws may not be respected particularly in view of the highest opinions. A minister of those matters, as she has expressed herself about them here at the General Assembly, if not these ministers, it may be a future problem. But I don't see a problem having this. To be honest, I don't understand the independence party lawsuit, just the Independence Party, that I don't want this little sentence on the extra law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I hope that I'm sorry, that thought always gets stronger as time goes on, you look at the government party somehow, and it always gets bigger. But I suppose, I hope that I am not to be wrong, that before the discussion, at least a member of another council accepted the opinion of the majority and spoke against the viewpoint of the minority. For other things, as far as it depends. paritaprevir The Leví of Gunnarsson's bear came into them, I just agree with that. Of course, when you're at the highest point, it makes you think. The Minister of Justice here says in a speech chair, by permission of the president: ▪ I'm not a spokesman for a person's binding it into law to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. Of course, it rings a certain caution bell. I wonder, isn't it the moral duty of the Generals to bind the knots so well, to ensure that the law is strictly followed, including equality? We believe that this will be better done by putting it in the text of the Law than by having it in the committee's opinion, I simply believe that we have an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u111	President. I would be very interested in hearing the opinions of the other governmental parties. Of course it was. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who expressed his opinion on this. I'm not sure that's the opinion of the party, but I'm guessing that, anyway. In view of this, I think I'm more obvious to have this change as part of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u112	Hanna Katrín spoke of it earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u113	I'm sorry, I didn't see it on the speaker list, I slided over him. I noticed that the talk was divided into two parts. [[The point was, the discussion took place.]] [[The point is, that's what we're talking about.]] But okay. Thank you so much for the comment. It would be interesting to consider how this can get through, despite the fact that there is no more to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u114	A respectable president. As I entered my previous challenge, one member of the second class spoke here - I am trying to maintain the practice of not calling absent members of the council hall - but it certainly was that at least one member of another's company of directors other than the Independence Party spoke here. On the other hand, I agree completely with what is presented in a case. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson that this is a matter of magnitude that we need more people to discuss it, representatives from all categories, and most of them. This is one of the things I think it's best if people don't have to split into any opposing parties. This is one of the things where I think we can have a meaningful, meaningful conversation, whether we agree or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u115	Madam President. In this sermon earlier, it was heard that the proposed changes in my section of the committee were meaningless, figurative. I view this as not a symbolic operation while so in the community, women in positions of authority are still leaning on. [[Up front.]] In the courts. Yes, absolutely. I view this as not symbolic while leaning on women in positions of power, not just within the judiciary system, but around every part of the community, whether for management in companies or elsewhere. This is not symbolic. This would be symbolic if the score was equal and would have been equal for a very long time, and it would not be possible for the success that has been attained, even as it were. Reflecting on the fact that the council is nearly equal to the proportions of men and women today, it was reversible. But there is still that danger. Our association simply does not replace the inhuman power if it is not well - checked. I'm telling you absolutely no. This is not a symbolic operation. I'm afraid this is a necessary operation. We're just as far as we're concerned. It's just that today, Iceland is one of the few countries that are well organized in this world, and we need to continue and do much better. But we also need to continue to set a good example, even until all the countries of the world are in a place where perfect equality exists between men and women and, in fact, everyone else in the community. So we cannot get by waiting and hoping that somehow there will be equal gender ratios in this new court. I don't expect anything else when it comes only to experience, especially when it comes to what is right. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son said earlier about his legal experience, i.e. that law class women may be fewer and perhaps less experienced in some way, but that this will be another male court. I don't believe it, especially when it comes to the highest opinion. Minister Sigríður Á. Andersen has gathered in the media and at the General Assembly and elsewhere, that there will be adequate consideration for gender. It's not that complicated. We need this little sentence into the law now, not because it's the symbolic reflection of the one who was awesome, but because it's still incorruption in the community. We will not eliminate it by waiting and hoping. I really think that that day will ever come if we don't need these kind of things. I look forward to that day. That day will be great, but that day will not come soon. So far, there is a danger that the results that have been successful and that we are in exactly the same situation that we have always been in, where we have leaned on one sex. Enough of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u116	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy to have such a deep discussion of equality today. I really think it's an example that we deal with as important as equality is as often as possible in the General Assembly. I'd like to go over it a bit, and I'd be very proud to say that I think this government is probably the most progressive government in Iceland's history of equality. I keep it steady and steady, and proud. I don't think that in any of the laws previously written in this country, such a clear statement was made: ▪ In a broad sense, justice is an unbreakable part of a just and reasonable society. There, equality in a workforce is a major factor. In order to cope with sex - related pay rights, companies with 25 or more employees each year adopt the same amount of pay. This is probably the most progressive of all cases of equality in a government contract. I'm proud to be part of a government that puts equality so high and clear in its priorities. In view of the committee's opinion, I can say that I feel that it goes far enough for me, which is a feminist totally committed in my fingertips, when this is a clear letter - that's exactly what this discussion is all about: The more part points out that the role of a judicial committee is to provide a minister with a reasoned review of candidates' jobs and to take a position on which the applicant is most qualified for the office. However, if a jury's evaluation of two or more candidates is equally appropriate, the law may be tested for the equal rights of women and men... to a minister's decision on a judge's order and will further emphasize that a minister has a goal in the context of gender proportions being equal to the number of appointed judges. [[The president calls.]] This is very clear. [[President (NRM): According to Congress, a senator must seek permission from the president before reading printed material. The president also wants to apologize for having pronounced his name. A senator's out of bed.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u117	Madam President. I don't know where the answer really was, but I'm glad it was. A senator is very pleased with his government. I think it's great. I also love that some kind of meditation on equality, gender equality, is presented in a government contract that was somewhat insignificant in other respects. I like that very much. But words have to do things. It's not enough to say things are supposed to be great, they have to be. So I would like to have no disagreement that this little sentence enters those laws. Despite the fact that earlier this week, it has been found that the government has decided that the law is equally valid, as far as I know, it is the purpose of an explanation of the law, which, of course, is to explain the meaning of the law. But legal evidence is not a law. It's not that in social insurance laws or courts law. The law itself has to tell what it is and what it isn't and how it should be. While this situation is not available, it will occur at some time point that ministers, or others who have the role of enforcing the law, will interpret it in their own way. I am not convinced that the guarantees of equality are sufficient in this case, where, as previously indicated in this hearing, there is a special law that may go further in equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u118	A respectable president. First, I'd like to apologize for not asking for the president's permission before quoting the committee. We have equality laws. We add equality laws directly to the minister's recommendation that they have the law to guide them. That is what this opinion of the committee does and makes very clear, pointing it to a minister for special consideration. That's very clear. I don't understand why things are being complicated. This is very clear in the leading party of the greater part, and we have an equal law in the country that is specifically referred to in these texts. All of us agree on our objective, that is, perhaps, the positive thing presented here in the Hall today. That's what's great, that we all agree on our goal, on the end goal, that we common to, whether in more part or less. We're all going to the same end, to equalize. No matter where we stand. We're all going there. That's great. And this is very clear in the leading party of the greater part and meets the requirement here on the subject. Being getting involved with things more, by putting into law that it should follow the law, I feel personally unnecessary when it becomes as clear as it is in the committee's list of parts as it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u119	Madam President. I agree with that. How wonderful it is that everyone agrees on the most important issues in this matter, to ensure equality and equality in general! There's no one to argue with. Happily, we are past that point in our discussion. But there's something else that sounds to me that's probably equally important. It is how the three - part arrangement of power works. How courts work, how the interpretation of the law works. You see, such articles with the law are not laws. They're not laws. They're legal data. It's just that they're supposed to be used to understand the law, but even though the suggestions in a report are incredibly beautiful and clear, that won't change the fact that it's not a law. Ideas are not commands that the government has the law to follow. If this does not appear clearly in the law, and it is actually meant that a justice minister has or can follow this, he may also choose not to do so. It'll come back up here again and again. This same discussion about the law of the articles. That's what happened in the social security business. In fact, Piratar and I have actually made a suggestion on the matter of choice because it did not simply ignore the report, it ignored the law itself. It's amazing that we're going to have to debate whether any of these articles have a legal value. They don't have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u120	Madam President. I thank you for the speaker, my man. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, for the speech. I wanted to ask him a few questions. Hv. paritaprevir Elínardóttir Sólnólnnardóttir said earlier that the government of the Independence Party, Action, and the future was the most progressive, and thus testified to the government's emphasis on equality, but in the declaration of the government, there are in total four sentences on equality. To commend the government that I supported, the state of VG and the United States, there were sixteen declarations of equality in that government contract. If we were to go to some competition for the most progressive government government, it would be good to be clear. [[Up front.]] But I'm here to answer what. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and I would like to ask the senator if they were the words of the Minister of Justice, who died at 1st. of the bill on this subject, a co-ordination with the government declaration of cooperation, i.e. her comments about the fact that the law in general applies, of course, to all areas of society. It means equality. And also regarding its comments that it is not a spokesman for a law to choose individuals according to sex rather than by their ability. And at the same time, they say the highest. Minister of Justice to say that there is no success in looking especially into gender terms when an order is being considered as important as a judicial office. Counts 'em out. A senator of these words of the minister rhymes with the work of the now ruling government declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u121	Madam President. I think the answer is simply no. You cannot say that these words harmonize with the government declaration of cooperation. Actually, more is needed. She just doesn't. The other thing is, I'm not gonna make myself a judge in some cunt contest between governments. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That won't be necessary. Four sentences here, sixteen sentences there. Yes, indeed, it was the case that the government of the Left Green and the United States did quite a good thing in equality and that the new government might look into that database to continue that job. But I don't think that this kind of pussy contest is necessarily useful at this moment. This is one of the few cases I have witnessed at the Council until people agree completely with us about our objective and should not be led to a delay in the progress of good things. In fact, we're arguing about whether to put only one sentence into the law. Of course, you're just supposed to put this sentence in the law. She won't hurt anyone. In the unlikely case. The minister of justice has a real sense of gender, which will only be meaningless and unnecessary. But it is not that in this particular case, people ask us to be suspicious. We have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u122	Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and I'm sorry if he finds out that he's been in some pussy contest here. It was only said with loving concern when I pointed to the government of the Left Green and the United States, and the importance of their government on equality. I think we can, and I sincerely believe that we will be united in upholding the gender reasons necessary to reform our society. But my question with regard to the words of the Minister of Justice and how they harmonize with the government's declaration and whether there is a greater basis for intertwining the text presented in the minority opinion - I agree with that. The senator's view that the sentence on this subject is not too radical, nor is it necessary for anyone to split up against it or that there is a great disagreement between him or her, but it should probably be in the law. But I wondered, " What is the greatest expression? ' Minister of Justice is in agreement with the statement and whether it may be possible for her to feel that the lesser part would want to interpolate on this sentence.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u123	Madam President. Thank you for the second answer, and say again, "I love the word." Minister of Justice is not compatible with what is stated in the government covenant. I feel that they have every reason to place this little sentence in the law. It's a little sentence. In reality, it is just a shield against improper conduct that is not meant to occur. We shouldn't need that badge. But there are enough people at this council who are unsure enough about the gender and the standards of equality. Minister of Justice simply to demand that we take the steps needed to make such a shield in order to protect sexual equality. Actually, that's the point. You can naturally call a pussy contest a different name, and I chose not to do so in the light of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u124	V.E.G. President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I haven't started talking once. It's like these people know what I'm gonna say. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] How interesting it has been to listen to the discussion! I personally disagree with many who have spoken, that there is an equal level of gender in jobs. I believe it is desirable, especially since there is some power in the hands of people or the class. I think it's very desirable. But when it comes to the highest courts in the country, I feel that most important is that people attack highly qualified jobs there. Now we don't know how many applicants become and how many of the sexes and people are applying for them. If there are more women fit, I'm not worried about that. I'm not worried if there are 15 women in the court. None. But the main point of this, because it is a very difficult work, with vast powers that have a profound impact on our lives and our situation in life, is that we cannot allow some view of sexuality or whatever the outcome may be. It is desirable that it is varied not only in the sex but also in the individual background, in the field of law, etc. This is the most important thing. In this discussion of these changes, I find it extremely strange because the law is quite clear: A minister is bound by the Commission's assessment of the fittest. If there are equal, then, as has always been, and a minister can't get away with another, the law on equal status of the sexes. It's so simple. That's why I find it odd that we've spent a whole day doing this. It's all nonsense, as they say. The laws are very clear, what humans can do, what the law says, and what they can do. I know some people here think I hate women and I always have, but that's a big misunderstanding. I'm probably the only man in the councilroom who's got something to do with women getting those positions. - og, Logi, maybe. [[Up front.]] But I'm not to be misunderstood as far as I'm concerned. I personally stress that the variety is the greatest in power. I think the same is true when it comes to the General Assembly, that there needs to be as diverse as any group, and it also counts that there are people everywhere in the country, that there are differences in genders, though they are not always the same in every kind of country. That's desirable. At times, however, circumstances may differ. Then you lean on either sex. The world does not agree with this, whether in a nursing profession, in a teaching class, in a court of judges, in any other place or in any other place. Equality is not that there are equal numbers of genders in all places. We need to get out of that discussion so that the discussion on this subject can become a bit intellectual, for the courts are of enormous importance. It is very important that people there be highly qualified. We're not talking about any middle people. Not all lawyers graduate these jobs, and although some might be considered qualified, there may be quite a difference. It is not given to all to resolve complex legal solutions. It's not like that. It's all poetry, and things like that don't work out. We need to make sure that there are people here who are highly qualified. And, of course, no one is perfectly qualified unless he has good experience. Perhaps that explains why there is still a difference between the Supreme Court and not the rest of the justice system. It is, of course, different when the ratios match those with experience and are written out by this test. I'm trying to sum up the issues and the issues involved so that the discussion doesn't go out in many areas, like at the end of the day. The senator of Smári Mccarthy, who views this as equal, rather than as the ability that really mattered. If we're going to compromise, we'll first have problems with the courts. I'm not talking about if we're going to do more than the gender difference, some other thing, top priority, away from anything that makes sense, we're going to get into total trouble with this. I'm going to repeat at the end and correct it, as I may have done many times, that this meant gender palace is not in the general justice system. He is the only one yet in a very limited way. I don't believe that there will be a limp, in fact, in the new land's right. We have become an experienced female judge. We have very experienced female lawyers. For a long time, there were almost no women in the law class. They were very few in years, but they did not do the legal job. Happily, though, things have changed. The stage has changed completely. I assure you, if all those women who are experienced in applying and qualified for this job, there will be no prominent gender balance in this matter. However, I think it is very wise to take this discussion, so they can see what the matter is in general and have a bit of a prince's finger in what is important. I'm not going to complain if people disagree with me. I'm not going to talk down to anyone, either. I also want to take this opportunity and pray. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér's apologies for my hint that he spoke here in an excessive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u125	A respectable president. Where we're at. paritaprevir Beggar Níelsson is a prince. I'd like to reiterate it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson said in the council hall earlier, but it is the viewpoints that have shown it, in fact, this old prince, that a special law goes beyond the general law. This prince has been used repeatedly to maintain sex halls in the judiciary; by claiming that equality laws do not apply when it comes to judicial law. Wants 'em why. A senator meant, as he claims, that this is just some confusion, that the court law is not a special law, that it does not have to specifically say that equality laws here, as is specifically stated in law that will take effect on courts? If we're talking about a question about a prince, it's only a chance to make sure that the general laws, equality laws, also act in these terms again, judicial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u126	V.E.G. President. In all the commands in positions, to all the government agencies, the laws apply equally and equalize the status of women and men; has always been, always, and always will be, and are done in many ways. The problem, as a dog. A senator is pointing out, with the committee's special law on the order of the Commission, that is a special law on the appointment of the committee. That's not what we're talking about right now. We're talking about orders in positions. If two members of a different sex are equally appropriate, the person should be appointed to the palace. You don't say anything in all the laws. It's been that way everywhere. It's been for a long time. This is not to be confused with specific laws that deal with a particular order of a particular committee, which I think has been corrected by now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u127	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may not have completely understood me. There are also special laws on how judges will be appointed to this new land's rights. That's what we're talking about right now. There's no evidence of gender's motive in a court of law. No gender grounds are found in the rules of the selection committee. So there must be a special law on how to appoint to this judicial office. So I don't understand why it can't be said, and I'm sure that it's also a law of equality. Otherwise, at the end, I just didn't think anything personal about it. A senator hates women. I believe, however, that he is not fully aware of the need to correct the decades's in the judgment system. Contrary to what it's like. A senator then thinks it's society's all that's good because there's an equal sex ratio in the land, not just the senator himself, though he's married to a female lawyer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u128	V.E.G. President. The court law is the law of courts. It's just a general court law. The Constitution always applies to the equality of the sexes. There are always general laws on gender equality unless there are other laws. These laws don't do that. These laws do not exclude the Constitution, and they cannot, yes - by order of the Commission, as misdirected as they were, the people in their town were assigned by their own name. [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] The minister was bound to appoint the candidate. Then you are in a position where equality laws cannot be applied to male and female equality. That's why. For many, this has been a problem. But, of course, both the Constitution and the equality laws apply to the order of judges like to order all other positions in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u129	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before his speech, although I hardly agree with one word he says. You know, in the answers here, there was a reason. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson talked about the United Nations. So I only testify in the previous speech. paritaprevir Brynjar, son of Níelsson, on the exact same subject on this bill, I, by permission of the president, would like to quote his words here that fell on February 7, saying: There is no profound limp in the justice system and the justice system. I'm referring to the police chiefs, the prosecutions, the district courts, to a considerable degree of equality, in some places, I think that if you're going to do that, you're going to have a hard time with men. It is not a deep - seated limp. Yet, last year a United Nations committee recommended that it be important to increase the number of women in the police and in the Supreme Court to fulfill the commitment of Iceland under the United Nations Convention on discriminatoryness against women. [[The president calls.]] She specifically stressed that even special measures, such as sexuality, must be taken without delay in order to increase the number of women in the judicial system. [[The president calls.]] I would like to hear: What is his opinion of this recommendation, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u130	V.E.G. President. All I can say is what the senator said. I have no opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Just nothing. I have no faith that the people, with all due respect to these countries, in Saudi Arabia, Senegal, and all these countries, can teach me something about human rights. I just don't believe in it. The same people found that being free fishing in Iceland is a violation of human rights. Of course, there's no such a mess, so I have no idea. I don't know who's giving these blessed men this committee information about this alleged sex palace. Who gives this information? Is it VG? [[Foreground on: Jesus...]] I'm just asking. I know exactly how many judges there are in Iceland. I know. Will the senator claim that there is a deep - seated sex hall in the province? Is that what the senator claims? It's just wrong. Will he claim that there is a deep - seated sex hall among the county or the prosecutor? [[The president calls.]] I just think all prosecutors have become more and less female now. In the last few years, I was only suing a female prosecutor. [[The president calls.]] What is this deep - seated limp? Because the United Nations Human Rights Committee says that? It's just somebody talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u131	Madam President. Now I have to admit, that's the answer. I was greatly disappointed by a senator. To tell you the truth, I'd have thought that. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son could do better than declare in the General pride of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, saying that he knows better and that he does not accept it. Here, the former president of the National Law Association of Iceland, the Supreme Court attorney, the district attorney, and the senator. This is by no means acceptable. Here we go. A member of the U.S. Senate delivers a series of speechs and repeats the words of confusion and nonsense. His response is to respect the United Nations recommendations on the removal of sex rights established in the Iceland Court of Justice. I want less of that, too. A senator here refers to VG, who provides information to the United Nations that includes the United Nations. Icelandic governments that provide information on the state of affairs here on the United Nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u132	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asked me how I felt about this committee. I just said my opinion on this committee. Is there a problem with that? Do they think that if there is a UN in advance something that it is an unfavourable fact? We know how many misdemeanors are of the whole thing. The United Nations does not have to tell us. If there are so many people in the region, men and women... if there are as many women as there are men in the United Nations... there can't be a sex palace in the district courts. [[... treats they've already known...]] It's just not possible. How many prosecutors are women, and how many are guilty men?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u133	You said there wasn't a limp in the justice system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u134	Yeah, I'm saying it's not a limp. The only item available in the Supreme Court. That's 7:2. It's the only clan. I have explained why that tail is and why it is still there and will disappear. [[The president calls.]] The United Nations won't tell me anything about this. My opinion of the United Nations is not growing. They're about as good at human rights as the Council of Human Rights in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u135	A respectable president. Some things surprise you, and that's all. What surprised me wasn't that. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son did not believe in the value of using sexuality that leaned on one sex. Hv. A senator is naturally here for the class responsible for the failure to achieve a full share of female senators in the council hall. In the other categories, we returned an equal proportion of men and women to the council, but the Independence Party reduces the proportion because the group doesn't believe in quotas. Let's see how it works. Never has there been a female chairman, unlike any other group of two - year - olds. A minister is bound by the committee's opinion, said the senator earlier. I'd like to ask him if he'd read the bill we're here discussing the sentences that are particularly relevant to what a minister's not tied to by the qualifications committee. If he proposes to the General for a qualified individual according to the Committee's opinion, this training order may be varied from the Committee. That's what I'm talking about. A senator has read the bill well enough to make that claim? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u136	V.E.G. President. I want to start by pointing down. A senator is supposed to be letting down the sex ratio for women at the same time, not that it matters. This greeting speech, to me, is incomprehensible if men count on another level that it is the most qualified one for each occasion. If it wasn't important for the fittest to be selected and we had some job that didn't matter which one was the most suitable one, I don't care about sexuality, just nothing. But about bringing this into the council, that unless there's some reason why the committee assessment is wrong or wrong, it is absolutely necessary. There is no other way to make any changes in the opinion of the committee unless there is sound evidence that the evaluation is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u137	Now I'm not a lawyer, Madam President, but in this bill we're discussing, it's open. This way to a meeting of qualified candidates by the secretary's rights is gaming, that's all that is left of the words. The suggestion of the memory is the wording, the same sentences, and the two branches of the court law, the law that the bill has to deal with, 9 and 11. who, on the other hand, are in charge of judicial matters and of this selection committee, which will be followed by this first splash, where legal laws in the courts discuss how to appoint a group of people, use the same sentences as we do in the smaller section, to appoint the members of the people to whom the Ministers are to be brought here to the council. What is it that the senator is afraid of? Is this the reason why we should wake up? A senator, in opposition to his own party here during the last term, said in the Generals hearing, by permission of a president: And that I would like to have something different than this bill. I still support this bill... He did not support regulations. The senator, about sexuality when the bill was originally on the subject, finally let loose because in the lesser part we made a joint adjustment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He finally gets the release that he didn't get here in the winter of 2016. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u138	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u139	V.E.G. President. According to the words, it may well be in harmony with the sounds, but I do not believe that the Allied will take the power to compromise the assessment of the NTSB as a night or as a salutation committee. You see, that is what I suspected that this law, a change of motion, might be thought of - to ensure that a minister and a member of the council would have the authority to make a personal decision about this, to disfellowship the most qualified one. [[Up front.]] There may be reasons for doing so, and I don't always agree with a committee's assessment. It's absolutely a requirement in my mind that if the General or others are to compromise the judgement of the Commission, there are reasons for what is valid. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] There's just a general rule about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u140	A respectable president. I cut by the words of a man. paritaprevir Bruntur, Brynjar of Níelsson, on experience. Today, we have a bit of a variety of times and experience in it to pass out, especially when we update our laws and times. And experience is not the only thing that matters. Sometimes it is possible to live, learn, and develop. Although experience may have been more important in this area than in many other places, we have a sense of well - being at work, and I expect the courts too. A senator may know better than I do. I think it's important to remember that we can't quite encourage ourselves down on terms such as experience, for like a whale. The candidate may be interested in taking into account the combinations of the group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u141	V.E.G. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's experience is not everything. True, I believe that a certain experience needs to be there so that you take such an important job that you are a judge of the Supreme Court. At times, however, humans may be able to perform a totally indiscriminate skills at an early age, perhaps not very experienced. I have seen it in the opinion of this committee that this was taken into consideration. Of course, two people with 40 years of experience and 50 years of experience are of no concern, but it may matter whether they have experience in the past 5 years or 15 years. I agree with that, let's just not focus on it altogether. Some show by their actions that they can solve very complex legal problems while others prove that they are having difficulty doing so, or they simply cannot. Nevertheless, they are written out by lawyers. That, of course, is the point. I agree that there are many things to look at in this assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u142	President. Something else I cut against who. The senator was his list of gender proportions. Since the Conspiracy has one male and female, it's one-third. But if I count correctly, I made a short hand count before going up to the pit, 7 of the 21 members of the Independence Party are women. That's then, I think, same ratio if I count right. There's a judge of half a council member at the United States and three and a half at the Independence Party, I think, for whatever reason. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was pointing out that there was a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u143	V.E.G. President. I mean, I wasn't so slippery on account, but it fits. True, I thought we had 8, but all right. It doesn't matter. I don't know. [[Up front.]] I'm not always thinking like this. [[Up front.]] People who are involved in this can never think of anything rationally because they are trapped in one form, preoccupied with looking from a form, instead of looking at the material and its contents. When men fall into that direction and never get out of it, no matter what subject they're talking about--I say. [[The point is, says who?]] There is now some group that lean on women - in all kinds of jobs, to sea, and elsewhere. Besides, no one worries that teachers are 90% women, 95% women's nurses. All of a sudden, with women leaning, everything's impossible, something special needs to be taken care of. [[The president calls.]] Let's just be a little more objective in this and evaluate it each time instead of being guided by it. It says here... I'm over?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u144	A respectable president. I'm going to allow me to try to close this discussion by saying some final words in this discussion. It is my opinion that prejudice against women in the jurist system is a deep - seated problem. Therefore, there is no special reason to hope that the best will happen, that the indentated men of the justice system, which says regarding the ability to evaluate judges, will then escape without a clear legal basis on the duties of the judiciary, including the selection committee, to submit to equality laws. Women who are selected in the selection committee by the rulers of this system may be in trouble. The question of equality and the principles of administrative rights and the fact that prejudice against women have suffered within it for years is an exposé of much larger problems, i.e. Undistracted regimes where the desire and abuse of public power are offered without responsibility by the court's agencies. In such a situation, the best of people, including women, may have to choose their own battles on the committee and on the counsel of the court. In such a situation, women's lawyers may be reluctant even to reveal or discuss the equality problem in the judiciary and the legal profession, since they rightly believe that it can affect their progress and standards. There's talk behind closed doors. People are told to come to earth with caution and be careful not to be extreme. Hence, it is vital that the lawgiver take decisive action and give a clear tone, not merely in a committee party, as if it were some point of view that there is to be an equal law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u145	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend an action plan for energy exchange interpretation, as per Parliament 205, 146. Energy exchange is well known to us Icelanders, i.e. ... todivideonepower for another. In recent decades, we have achieved significant results by the use of renewable energy in our energy supply, both domestic and industrial use. About 40 years ago, half of Iceland's apartment houses were heated up with imported fossil fuels. Today, this ratio is less than 1%. It is indeed an example of successful energy exchange with positive economic, social, and environmental benefits. Less local pollution, less greenhouse gas emissions, considerable currency savings, improved national energy security, and the growth of all energy innovations. All of this has resulted in energy exchanges in the last few decades. During the 1960's, there were many doubts about the plans for the energy exchange at that time in house - to - house heating, for there was no apparent financial basis for that operation at that time. I don't think anyone today will object to the fact that there was a successful, important step involved. So we are well aware of the positive results of energy exchange and the importance of continuing with the history of energy exchange in Iceland. We are today, in effect, at the next stage of energy exchange in Iceland. The introduced fossil fuels are still dominant in various fields. Thus, there are many opportunities and challenges that we face. First of all, transport is a continuing project, whether by land, by sea, or by air. During the past few years, significant steps have been taken, and government action has played a prominent role in the energy exchange of land transports that have already taken place. Good results include the growth of renewable fuels from 0.2% of renewable energy sources to about 6% in five years. Both of these are biofuels that are now being used to increase, as well as the growth in the number of electricity cars now more than 1,000 on the roads of the country. A long way, though, is still to achieve the full energy exchange in land transport. I believe that in these matters we should set both ambitious and realistic goals. Marine and airrelated activities, however, are much shorter in terms of energy exchange and are nearing its start point. It is therefore suggested to expand energy exchange policies and measures so that they will take on all areas that are more and less dependent on the use of fossil fuels. Energy exchange is one of the government's priorities and a major factor in our activities on climate. The Declaration of Independence Party, Correction and Future Declaration states that a climate action program will be implemented in accordance with the Paris Convention. The plan will hide. in particular green catalyses, forestry, land healing, and energy exchange in transport. The Declaration also states that a uniform system of green taxes has to be established and that the taxation of vehicles and fuel will continue to be carried out. The proposal for the resolution of the energy switch action programme is submitted in accordance with the government's policy declaration. Two projects directly involved in energy exchange are presented in the government's application programme for climate change at the end of November 2015, on the other hand, on a renewable schedule for the next year due to energy exchange, land, air, and uterus as well as on the expansion of national electrical infrastructure. The application programme further stated that the next year's operation plan for energy exchange, both land and sea, will be submitted at the Council as a proposal for action at the 2016 Parliament and that the plan will be carried out by the Directorates of the Employment and Neopair and Green Energy, which is a cooperation site for energy exchange aimed at increasing the contribution of bioefficient domestic energy at the expense of imported carbon fuels. In accordance with this, proposal for a resolution on the energy exchange strategy was proposed by the then Industrial and Business Minister at the General in June 2016 for introductions. The proposal was recommended in August 2016, followed by the proposal for the Administrative Work Committee and reference, but it was not completed before the end of the council. So the proposal for a hearing that I recommend here is reimbursed to the same term from the last legislature, 1405, 802 suit. However, it should be noted that in the recommendations for the interpretation that I recommend it, it has been taken into account the recommendations from the counselees as far as possible. So the Senate has made some changes and has been updated. The major material change is that based on the latest data, the aim is to increase the proportion of renewable energy on land by 2030 from the previous version, from 30% to 40%. Another chief goal in the proposal remains the same from what was presented at the 145th legislature. V.E.G. President. The main embellishment is the proposal for action that I here recommend as a goal-to-do. Targeting takes into account the predictions of the energy forecasting committees of the Power Institute and the government's ability to promote economic energy exchange. The target of a 40% share of renewable energy in transport is proposed in the year 2030 and 10% of the share in the intensive activities. These goals are realistic but demanding. The projections of this success are clear from the projection that only the government's approach, where forecasts that make up undiscovered conditions provide us with 27% share in 2030 for transport and still at zero levels for water - related activities. The proposal puts measures in new areas of energy exchange that so far have not been in the foreground, i.e. on the ocean and on the fly, as well as on the move for transport to the country. Intensification of infrastructure and the importance of the distribution system of electricity, one of the reasons for energy exchange, has been shown to have the necessary infrastructure to meet the increased use of renewable energy sources, e.g. in association with increased motor and electrical use in ports. I would especially like to introduce to you that I believe that more attention will be given to the context of energy exchanges and necessary development of electrical transport and distribution systems. Over the past few years, discussions about the build-up demand of electricity transport and distribution systems tend to cause too much industry and possible big plans. It is, in my opinion, a great simplicity of facts. The increased emission security of electricity is turning to most of the households and smaller companies, to farm conditions, to commercial instruments, and to the equations for national energy exchange. Without adequate transport and distribution systems of electricity, it is such an empty matter to talk about national energy exchange plans. So we must look at these issues in context and approach them in a responsible way in the long run from careful care. The synopsis proposal puts forward a energy exchange action programme until the next year. The plan is expected to be reviewed every five years and updated as necessary at any given time. The treatment plan consists of 23 teams that should help achieve the above targets. Three main categories are the actions. Number one is green catalyses, infrastructure and policy, as well as regulations and research. The initiatives then exchange land, sea, and air transport. It is too far here to list all the actions in the Senate document. The proposal suggests that at the end of the last year, governments are being helped to build up infrastructures for electric cars. 16 Projects were strengthened, a total of 201 million. K., followed by over 100 electrical loading stations, will be built all over the country in the next three years. These strengthens the internal signal that there is a large, targeted structure of the infrastructure for electric cars that will even begin. greatly increases the possibility of traveling beyond the capital area. The proposal suggests that a group of workers provide general measures that help build up the infrastructure for eco-friendly cars at home and workplace. It is suggested that ships be reassigned at ports, providing electrical links for long - term airport locations, and aircraft land management. There is a need to increase the information available to the public about cars, infrastructure and fuel. The need for infrastructure to be available for eco-friendly automobiles at tourist attractions is noted. Then there are the suggestions for transport, economic shopping, and international pollution policies in marine areas. As mentioned earlier, this proposal was made in cooperation with Green Energy, a cooperation field on energy exchange, and consultation with a number of stakeholders. Green energy is a government site of cooperation as well as companies from the commercial world that are linked to energy exchange. There's a lot of agents there for four hearings, i.e. Department of Employment and Development, Environment and Resources, Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and Internal Affairs. On behalf of the industry, representatives from the Association of Industrial Affairs, Civilization, Parking Union, and Human Sense. V.E.G. President. This scheme includes incentives and measures to reduce the use of fossil fuels, to speed up energy exchange development as possible, but also to cut knots if there are obstacles with increased cooperation and cooperation across the Ministry. It is my hope that the suggestions presented in the Senate will contribute to continued vigorous energy exchange activity and will thus support the ambitious goals established by governments in this field, society, and environment for their good. To that end, I suggest that the case be followed by this discussion. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u146	A respectable president. First, I'd like to declare my joy with a proposed proposal, i.e. that it should be submitted, and the emphasis as the highest. A minister puts these matters into practice so quickly that he handles this matter as she did in her own case. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to some point of this. I may so perhaps enter more of my talk below. But since I have a chance to have a place to speak at the highest. A minister directly would like to ask, because here, concerning the infrastructure, it says, to aim for electrical services that supply the demand for general ships in ports to be available for 2025, how far it is being accomplished, and how much work it is done in cooperation with the sources responsible for the electrical power system, Landsnet. It is not a secret that the lack of lines has proved to be simple. More often than not ended up in court. V.E.G. One minister spoke of the need to set ambitious goals, yet practical. It may be unfair to pray to the highest degree. Minister on such an extensive response that I would like to try, but I ask how this policy harmonizes with other policies that are either in the people or those in the lake, whether this is being looked overall in connection with a frame plan, in connection with the Landsnet System. I hope that as soon as possible, I will have a word with the Minister on political policy when it comes to lines. [[The president calls.]] How does it all rhyme and have been read together?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u147	President. I'll start by thanking you. A senator for the questions. He's right, these are big questions, but the answer is in full form: Yes, it's been seen together. It is true, however, that you are right. A senator says, moving on with this job has not been easy. I don't see that it will necessarily change in the near future. That's still a project, including. Our work here, to put our arms around this subject, and to show the importance of it at the same time that we have respect for the concerns people may have in these matters. It's also been worked with other resources, such as my introduction, the Environment and Resource Ministry. and the Ministry of Economics and the Internal Affairs that handles transportation. The answer is: Yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u148	A respectable president. I'm a big fan of shorts and pointed answers. It often helps. First, I want my second answer to come in to the highest level. A minister proposes that this case be referred to the professional committee. I believe this is a matter that has all the same place on the board of environmental and transport committees and is wondering, without any intention of making a major disagreement about it or about the weather, as some have been done here at the council Hall, whether this could be referred to as both committees or at least make the knots so that there could be a great deal of good cooperation there. That's what I think would continue to help the case. It's so wide, it's like the highest. The minister himself came in, and touched so many policies and matters that are on the table at the moment. Environment and Transport Committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister end up opposing me into economic motivations that appear on page. 2 of the report. The first subject, by permission of the president, says: • A transport fund will be reviewed to ensure that it provides sufficient tax pay for the construction and maintenance of transport workers. What does that mean? They're reporting further roads like the highest level. A secretary of transportation has suggested that I already have a job to look at or at least proclaim it? How does this relate to, ensuring enough tax revenues to support the construction and maintenance of transport workers, economic motivation for energy exchange?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u149	Yes, please. First, very brief on the committee. The case has already been sent to a professional committee. Of course, a professional health care committee may request a review from an environment and transport committee. I just want to say in general and of course in this matter that this requires cooperation between both committees. I hope that's how people do it. This is then part of the climate project, which includes a link to the Environment Ministry and the Environment Committee as well. The tax system is not part of the roadside talk. Rather, it turns to the fact that we are motivated today, those who buy e.g. An electric vehicle does not pay the same price as a fuel truck driver. That means if we're going to increase the size of these cars, we're going to pay fewer and fewer, and the other costs we're using to build up the road system. That's why this calls for a review of the overall picture. That's what's going on at the Ministry of finance. It will explain. If we proclaim changes in the picture and possible changes in reality, we also need to reevaluate all donations so that we can continue building roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u150	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for delivering this proposal to the council resolution of the energy change action programme. I think it's the way all of us are treated in this room that we think it's a beautiful prospect to change from space and gasoline to electricity, e.g. In the fleet of cars, not to mention the fleet, which is greater than and more complex. But this good case also depends on our ability to transport electricity and have enough electricity to take on the energy exchange that we are going to need in the country, on the whole of the motor fleet. There are also much larger cases facing the ports of the country where the boats are at the docks and lack electricity. In many parts of the country, especially in the North, North East, and Eastern countries, no more electricity can be moved to connect with ports, with fish farms driven on oil. Today, all of them are crumbling their hairy skin, and most of them are being driven by oil because there is not enough burden in their transport to transport electricity to them. This beautiful vision, which I think all of us in this room can agree that it is based on our being ready to create the electricity needed to meet the ideals and ideas expressed in this Senate resolution. And if we want to produce the electricity, we need to be able to transport it. But we're always getting caught up in it over and over again that in our society everybody wants to have enough electricity, but almost no one wants it to be manufactured, let alone that it's moved. It affects our environment in many ways. If we're going to drive all the cars in this country, we're going to have to set up the bases around the country. This requires the increased electricity needed by means of a fresh transport system. Of course, there is another debate, but it somehow follows the other idea completely. That's why it's a good thing that happened at the top. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, of course, has to do with this matter as well as the environment and transport committee. I'll agree with that. I think we're always going to have to do something so big that we're going to have a broad solidarity. I think it's probably possible that a professional committee consults the environmental and transport committees in this matter and that we work best together, members of all committees and all classes. I would also like to mention a few points that I have more insight into than others. There's a mention that public transportation can come in here. I heard about the other day that Reykjavík was buying nine electrical buses. It's an improvement. Absolutely. We're on the right track there. As the situation is, I think we'll put electric cars on every short road. It is mentioned in this bill, e.g. The route between the Keflavour Airport and Reykjavík. There is a great need and a good thing to do, and of course we support it whole - souled. Then, it refers to the energy saving in the sea. The fishing fleet is now entering the fishing fleet, fishing, and fishing instruments. It's getting much more complicated and bigger. As we know only in the past few years, both instruments of fishing have become much lighter and stronger than the wire has ever been. In time, however, the ships are much bigger, and the fishing opportunities are much higher. The biggest piece of sheep opens up on a fishing trough, like many soccer fields. There are giant tools. When you pull them out of the coal, you need a lot of engine power. It takes tremendous force to pull these great trolls and these giant doors that keep them open. At the same time, while man increases the efficiency of the fishing ships, the fishing instruments are getting heavier, and even though machines are more efficient and more efficient in using energy, it calls for much energy. Of course, we need to examine how we can continue to reduce the use of energy on each kilogram of the caught fish we arrived in the country. I think we can all agree on that. Here we are talking about ways to go. Although it's more complicated than it is when it comes to cars, we must not give up. We need to keep going and see if we can't get any results. But I don't think we should talk about any bans or say what fishing tools to use. A line and a net and such fishing instruments call for much less energy to sea. We all know that. In bad weather, more energy is being destroyed at sea by dragging a troll or a net. That's the way it is now. Nature also plays into this with us. But I appreciate this bill. True, it was made up of last council, and I don't remember if it was just presented or submitted, but now it's done here and for discussion, society and the environment for good, as the minister said so well. I think we're all there right now. I can't wait to deal with this project on the job committee and will see to it that we're working with an environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u151	A respectable president. I reiterate my joy that this matter should come in early from the highest level. Minister. I cannot help but describe my joy with a word. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson on good cooperation and working with the Commission and the environment and transport committees. In some ways Ásmundur Friðriksson himself is the cooperative site, seated on both committees. I trust he will speak for our environmental interests, and he will be trusted to do so within the employment committee. Also, I couldn't understand the highest. A minister may be somewhat different from that one. It's a vast piece of paper. That's not true. There's a lot under here, energy exchange in transportation. It's like the highest. The minister reviewed this based on a document submitted to his last assembly. The report by Industrial and Business Minister on transport energy exchange has been widely quoted at the 2014-2015 Parliament. I would've chosen that this record would be more important that numbers had been updated. It seems to me that in many places, a review by the then industrial and commercial minister is referred to from the EPA2015 council. However, only numbers have been updated, such as the proportion of renewable fuel in transport. I would have thought it should be so that we could just get without too much trouble numbers over what the switch was now between various categories and more. I only introduced it in my counter here whether this was a realistic goal, whether it would be possible to set up an electrical signal for a ship, for example, this time. I hope that the goals set here are achieved. I have from time to time been in discussions about the environment, as I think it is primarily, though there is a lack of approval in those matters we agreed on in other areas. Thus, when it comes to environmental activities in other areas, we do not always discuss what we are going to do together. Here, for example. There is a trend in the report that energy exchange in which fossil fuels are replaced by electricity increases energy demand in the electrical energy system. While this is certainly not a suggestion for fossil fuels to be completely replaced by electricity, there are interesting figures about the need for energy. I quote this, by permission of the President: ▪ If you are going to be all transports around the country, including tourism vehicles, as well as fishing factories, industrial industry, and ports, you will need maximum energy of 880 MW and share in emissions of CO 2 1,411,700 years. It is necessary to consider the concentration of the transport and distribution system in order to meet any future national energy exchange. There must also be enough electricity to meet the demand. I feel that if I'm in the middle of an adult, I'm in the middle of two factors that could cause a poor timing of these targets, i.e. The energy itself, i.e. the power force, and the distribution, on the other hand. I only came across it in my opponent earlier that there is a lack of political exchange policy in Iceland. I've been asking questions about that case to the highest level. Minister. The fact is, according to electrical law since 2003, a minister has proposed such a policy to a council every four years. It's never been done. Today, all of this is too much in the hands of the company of this machine, which thus stands in the direction of how to distribute our energy, our resource, without preconceiving the political will of the government. Contrary to what we know from the North countries where there are simply agreed policy. In this proposal for interpretation and the report provided, there are an enormous number of positive points. But I'm afraid, as I came into it, that it will come to this mind that is here, the changes that must be made to become reality, all the way into the decisions that we make in connection with this when it comes to energy and power lines, for example. It mentions electric cars and cars, if I recall correctly, more than 20 passengers, and special discounts. Here, by permission of the President: A reimbursement tax for cleaner vehicles has to be reimbursed with more than 22 passengers. That's good. Like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in, someone is already taking experimental steps in that topic. But I miss it only in this, and I think it would have been a lot better if we had talked about things like the city line. Moving much of the traffic in the capital area into electric cars or trains is a process of energy exchange. So we only figured out the numbers we're dealing with here in the capital area: If the increase is predicted to be up to the year 2040, changes in road habits with the city line could translate less emissions to 100 levels. ton of CO 2 levels. To put it in context, CO 2 emissions in 2014 were exposed to the entire capital area, 373 of which you are. a ton. In order to achieve the objective set out here for energy exchange in transport, which is also a factor. to reduce emissions, should be a city line here very early and present, in view of government policy as supreme. A minister came in earlier, a priority to support her. I want to thank you very much. Minister for her answers to my answers earlier. She explained things to me that I needed to understand. But I'm just gonna go to the end and teach us to do that, both of you. Minister, let's get out of here. Councilmen, taking such a bag seriously. The use of a fishing factory is referred to as the presence of electric wood. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in earlier. It is a significant responsibility to establish such a connection. Although we often look at ourselves as the purest and best land in the world that has most energy, the fact is that there is a lack of energy and not quite clear how we are going to produce energy. That's what we're talking about. But the goals involved are good. Some of them could be even more radical. Here, for example. According to one estimate, 20% of public vehicles should be eco-friendly by 2020. [[The president calls.]] Governments have the utmost opportunity to set goals above them and to follow the lead in a clear example. It would be best if all the Ministers were eco-friendly tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u152	Mr. President. I am very pleased that this proposal for Congress has come to the fore to try to put energy exchange into a particular order, which is then driven by decision-making and will of the government. But when I look at it, there are some things that really hit me that make me feel that this motion is just not progressive at all. In support of my case, I stated that on the European Commission's policy framework of energy and climate issues until 2030, which was put forward on 23 October 2014, one of three main objectives is to achieve a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the 1990 reference year. But on page 18. 21 says, with permission from the President: In accordance with energy sources, the aims of a 40% share of renewable energy sources will cause fossil fuels to be close to 1990 levels and greenhouse gas emissions as well. What we're going through in this suggestion is that we're trying to achieve a 40% share of renewable energy, including in transportation, 2030. This will bring us to a place where we can begin working toward achieving the goals that were commonly submitted to the European Union's policy frame. It's one of those examples that makes me think it doesn't go far enough, as it says. In fact, there are many good suggestions in this room, but we also have to compare this with other countries. In Norway, among other things, 100% of all new cars sold for reinvigorated energy has been reported in 2025. I'd like that to be progressive, I'd think it'd be an attractive approach. There are many ways to support that use. True, today there are not many automobiles that drive on electricity, but it is clear that battery energy levels are increasing rapidly. This gives us a measure of hope. At the same time, more automobile manufacturers are producing cars that go for clean electricity. True, there is a bit of confusion that in the motion, people are a little housed under metal cars and even the boethanol cars and things I think at this point, it is safe to say that they have lost in the ideal war of who is the ultimate environmental energy source. It may be too early to say this, but at least I'd say that to cars it's the case. Also, there are things related to the cost of electricity. Electricity production in Iceland has long been very good and cheap. I think we're going to assume we have a total price of about 36 bucks. in a minute. This was a very low price ten years ago, but today sun power stations are being set up in many parts of the world that produce solar energy around 21 k. in a minute. This simply means that while this increase in electrical stability, electricity production will remain totally uncompetitive within ten years. This has consequences for the development of the modern industry and for the modern - day industrial industry. But I think we could look at some opportunities anyway. Energy exchange is an enormous economic advantage for the country. It is an economic point not to spend money on oil. There's no need for people to be lighting dinosaur juice to get to work in the morning. We can save tens of billions of people a year who buy foreign oil by speeding up this exchange of energy. The money saved will, of course, be used to offset the cost of maintenance the road if we put up with the stress that only the first 12,500 electric cars will get invigorated but will continue until 100% new cars have become electric cars. That would be, I think, considerably better. Besides, there's something else that I would like to be done in this suggestion, and that's that we shouldn't be consumers in this energy exchange, we shouldn't just eat what comes. There are lots of opportunities for innovation. If the government provided funding for the development of regional technology, which in any way contributes to energy exchange, then the thing that could actually make Iceland a leading country, both in use and in production and in the development of renewable energy sources, beyond the good results that have been achieved, e.g. in the soils in high - temperature areas and such. You see, there are a number of things that could actually be done here, especially about a ship. Putting batteries that have enough water to stay small, stop bursting them into pieces near water - if we can find a safe way to replace them with oil in large vessels or even small to begin with good batteries, that is something we can lead into. Also, there's a lot of opportunities, I think, in flight. Finally, I'd like to go to the Larsen C ice pack that's in Antarctica. In 2016 it formed 131 miles [111 km] of crack, as far as I know, about 100 meters [100 m] wide and 500 meters [500 m] deep at the moment. There are only 20 miles [20 km] left unscrupulous before the ice cave is completely released. It is estimated that she will be released from Antarctica this year. When that happens, there will probably be 5 of you. A square mile [2 km] of iceberg, which will likely melt there and may result in an average increase of up to six inches [10 cm] in the ocean floor. This isn't the largest iceberg that's ever formed. That's the one I think to call B2 for 11 of you. square miles and it broke from the Ross ice pack in 2000. There's a lot of them, and they've been increasing, and these big ice caps that are getting out. This is very dangerous. This is something that can cause the world's environment to become so furious that we have never seen anything like it before. While I'm talking about the opportunities and economic effects of not importing dinosaur juice, or not continuing - and we should certainly look to the interests that the nation has by stopping oil and by developing technology that can replace it and using the energy that we have better and that we try to contribute to an even less efficient energy production - I think that the biggest thing in this energy exchange, and the reason that we need to spade in a considerable greater way than in this otherwise ideal is that the earth's environment is no longer tolerated. We're in dangerous times. We are in dangerous times, which are not only measurable in the amount of carbon dioxide in the environment but in 5 of you. About a square mile [2 km] of iceberg is about to run to sea. If this is not the time to take important action, much more important than in these other excellent orders and ideas of energy exchange, I don't know what. Now's the time. We have to do this. Now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u153	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a well - arranged resolution proposal, which is a positive step in our forced expedition. Maybe I'll come in to some of the council mishap proposals and discuss them. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to address the missing issues of the discussion and the climate struggle. I realize that these things don't necessarily belong here, but because in the government and environmental minister's lawsuits, I don't think that it's necessary for us to go into it only, and also because the car that the thing is pretty much tip-acked in the discussion that's under here. Then I think it's also important to come on these things that I'm going to do. The car is one of the most dramatic inventions of the 20th century. Of course, part of the car problem is how it's driven forward, i.e. that it has been driven by fossil fuels. It is necessary to respond by switching to ecological energy. However, regardless of how the car is moved, it is a product of self - destruction. That's where I'm primarily talking about his mobility. It is the mobility of the car that has made our cities and urban areas evolve from the idea of what we can call the European model prepared, dense, low - density built, built around man, walking, where people lived on the upper hills and worked on the lower floors and then served in walkways or by public transportation in the vicinity, to move and to build after the American model of the car city, which is built on all the other princes, you see, grouping and separation. What do I mean by that? The strength of the car enables us to live far away from work, to seek recreation at the third place, and to shop at the fourth place. In other words, we have stretched far beyond anything that could ever become sustainable. As noble as it is to switch to eco-friendly fuels without doing anything else, we do nothing but treat the symptoms rather than attack the disease itself. This arrangement needs to be carried out in other areas, which are far more extensive and which deal with all infrastructure and the environment. Today, it is generally believed that about 30%, 40% of all carbon emissions are due to man - made engineering. Most experts agree that reducing unnecessary structure is most effective. Not only do we need to build smaller and more practical ones but we also need to build and live closer to one another because the length of distances is enormous. I believed that the Parliamentary arrangement would require a much larger and more progressive goal of making the environment more sustainable. For example, people are beginning to realize it, I think I've read it somewhere, that 50% of the goals that Reykjavíkurburg is going to achieve in its climates are directly due to the structure of the world. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Minister to adopt this at the government meetings and for the highest degree. Environment Minister to make proposals and actions or to assemble a group that encourages us to handle the most urgent matters. It will not be all right if the cars are moved forward by something else and we continue to stretch on the settlement and to build a means of transportation far beyond what is needed. It just calls for a different kind of problem. Here, tens of thousands of tons of steel are used for unnecessary use. It's just another waste of energy. Here, we have built buildings for many decades, using the wrong method of building. As a result, we know. We know the mold speech. It is rooted in our being built in the wrong way. We've been building a concrete wall too little isolated within, requiring that people living in their homes have to associate with them in a certain way in order to avoid problems. There's a lot of energy waste in apartments. It's not just about energy exchange, it's about energy waste and shrinking. The magic words are actually just three: building better, building smaller, and using less. In the Senate arrangement public transportation is spoken of. It shows the need and benefits that are right, but it does not say what causes public transportation to become acceptable. They all know it, and it's really the good news that these are the problems that all the cities around us face, so there are so many places and many that we can learn from. The magic word is built, so it has good walking skills, it is tight; it enjoys good public transportation. However, based on the area of the capital, where the concentration and number of apartments per hectare are always becoming smaller and smaller, only to make public transportation a kind of illusion, costmaking, monotonous, and inaccessible. There is no incentive for you to stop using your private car. We're not doing this on one board. We cannot build up obstacles, and we cannot prevent people from using the private car. In some cases it is absolutely necessary. But we should start building up so that people want to use it because it is a better option. In recent times, there is an amazing number of remarkable things that have happened in these matters. But we are still back where we are because we are going to adapt to the unusual circumstances we have come up with and then try to control the symptoms. But we are to attack the root cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for his historical record on this important subject, and much interesting point was made in his case. Certainly, it is not to deny that the car's vital quality is exactly its mobility. But there's something else I wanted to ask the senator. It focuses on, if I can see this in principle what he said about the terms of the synonym, that he agrees with its objectives, whether he also agrees with the context that energy production in the country will be in agreement with this strategy, and whether it is not important in all discussion of other issues, the framework and the like, of the use of renewable energy and hydropower workers, to take into account the specific issues presented in this Parliamentary arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u155	Mr. President. Yes, it's fine to get an answer because it may well have seemed to me that I was very negative to this record. I'm not. I really think it's a good step, and thank you very much. Minister again for performing this procedure so that you can work with it. However, I wanted to use the opening opportunity to declare that we need to handle this on a much broader basis. The question again?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u156	Mr. President. My question to why. The candidate is this whether or not it needs to be included in the context of the sections, using renewable energy sources to generate electricity, whether or not all energy production and programmes for the use of hydropower workers here in the country will need to be adhered to. to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u157	Mr. President. Yes, I think it's necessary to do so. I've been a spokesman for how bold we are when it comes to making our energy, so we can live up to these goals. Of course, we need to take a moderate measure of this. But I believe clearly that it involves being a man and building a culture to use nature in a positive and upbuilding way. I think ab alleged that eco-efficient electricity is a factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u158	A respectable president. A report was published in 2009 at the Environment Ministry Svandís the Safari Svavarsdóttir, under the title Potential to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland. It says, with permission from the President: To help reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from fish fishing, fossil fuels use is to reduce fossil fuels in a unit, to remove the same amount of fish from the sea at lower costs and less greenhouse gas emissions. The main factors involved in reducing emissions can be three categories: fuel saving, climate-fueling, increased land electricity use. Thus, a high priority is put on climate - changing energy sources and the increased use of land electricity in the energy exchange program. Although these factors are present, they are only a small percentage of the problem, as is suggested in a energy exchange program. Team B.5 speaks of checking for obstacles to the use of electrical energy at ports. It is an interesting comment, but this question can be answered simply as follows: But the port transport cost of electricity has the highest level of what happens in Iceland. It would be a good step toward this goal to reduce the cost of electricity in ports. Team C.5 speaks of the full implementation of the MARPOL Convention for docking black oil. I'm happy for that team, because this is a good thing to do when we consider the increase in cruise vessels in Iceland's port. What is lacking in the transport of the problem, however, is permanent solutions to carbon dioxide emissions at sea. It is said that by the year 2030, electronics will be used, i.e. machines that are restricted to electricity only, 2% of the total use of the fishing fleet instead of fossil fuels. Page 3 paints a picture of increasing greenhouse gas emissions below 2025. Aside from whether carbon dioxide comes from a biodiversity, it is still emissions. If we are actually going to attack the root cause of the problem, we need to cultivate environmental benefits. One of the best ways to reduce the number of burnt oil tons for the number of fish is to use the correct tool for the ticket. The use of fishing instruments needs to be substantial, and further permission to fish less is required. Fuel use in tug - fishing is about 300 litres per ton and 450 litres in the use of cryopreservers. However, the use of oil in hand fishing is compared with about 120 litres in a large ton. Main design factors affecting the energy efficiency of fishing vessels are e.g. The appropriate resistance features of a ship; the size and design of a ship; especially the size and size of a mechanical machine; especially the size of a power machine; the size and size of a good isolate of cool water and the use of air for heating. Fishing instruments are a very large factor in the fuel use of tugheads. About 75% of fuel use is carried out by pull. This is caused by increased resistance when the troll is drawn along the ship and with increased pressure to overcome the resistance. However, fuel consumption is more likely to increase energy production in low ports only 0.6%. In comparison, I accept the use of oil in hand fishing, which is about 2 liters per hour during hunting. The armboat kills on the plane, then gives the wind and current to move through the fishing area. It moves only a few hundred meters at a time and then goes back, which means that the plane may be used for two or five minutes every hour during fishing. So I miss the impulse of an energy exchange program to get more for less, to reduce fuel consumption. Piranium has provided a bill for increasing coastal fishing, and I ask members of the Parliament to keep greenhouse gas emissions in mind when this discussion takes place.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u159	Mr. President. I'm going to take up a discussion about this synopsis proposal, which I think is very important that we are discussing here so early. I'd like to draw special attention to the impression that it was a struggle. A minister makes a whole new tone when she recommended her case in which she assigned our project, energy exchange, in a different context, but we may have developed a long - term discussion. It put it in the context that in order for us to achieve real progress and to make it possible for all the people of the country to participate in energy exchange and the major work that we all really want to do, we would have to improve significantly from the network of electricity around the country. You see, a respectable president, it is not really acceptable for all citizens of the country to take on new energy sources, e.g. in transportation. I think of the inhabitants of the West. I think of the inhabitants of the Northland and the North, all over the country, and other parts of the country, that they will be used, e.g. In transport, it may not be possible for every country's home to build their cars in the same condition. For visitors who want to attend the Norwegian or Western countries home and everyone plugs their cars in, then there may not be an electrical transfer system that transports energy to load the cars as we would have to do, except that there are other possible resources, such as electrical preparations, etc., which I'm not saying is a day-to-day forecast, but I'd like to call attention to certain problems. If we are going to get the good ones we want them, we need to think about these things at the same time. This I would like to say is the new tone that the Minister put in the debate on energy change and that he is particularly pleased because it's a real problem we have to deal with, not tomorrow's problem, but today. There's a lot of ways we can get to the energy exchange of the mountain, and to mention it, not just a limited transport system, but also the level of energy being renewable, says the text of the proposal, about 70%. It is natural to be happy and to put us as a nation in a unique place. Of course, it's also part of this matter about how we can save the energy and the energy we're already producing, and how we use electricity. Perhaps it is one of our most convenient or realistic activation devices here for some time to install thermal pumps and thermal pumps at the houses fueled by electricity. This releases a lot of electricity and use here on the country. I would also like to discuss other advantages, and speakers mentioned earlier, e.g. energy consumption of fishing vessels or ships. I now mention it here to keep the latest fleet's ships saving fuel or to use much less fuel in fishing than we've known before. Hv. Einarsson The talk "How to Think These Things Together " was presented in the morning, and I agree that we have to do so. Then I mention one item regarding fishing vessels and energy to those not addressed in the text here, but I would like to maintain and also affect the potential of agriculture. You see, farming has a tremendous potential and a great opportunity to provide energy exchange and new energy sources. First of all, e.g. The production and culture of energy production, whether to drive cars or to drive boats. I would like to mention the potential for agriculture, farmers and landowners to produce energy with lower hydropower operations than we are often used to talk about, i.e. So-called microdoers or peasants. However, they also depend on our improving our electrical transport systems. Then I'm not talking about the big cod line or the big moats, but merely the distribution systems that lie around the countryside, many of which are now old and present in their years and are technically imperfect, are not that way, based on the generation of electrical transport systems that we need, which in common, are sometimes referred to as a three-phase electricity, and is really a requirement for the greater power production of farmers, whether it is by small hydropower activations, the potential wind energy. Or those who also counter-important action on climate matters, because we talk a lot about climate in connection with energy exchange, the electricity production in which agricultural energy is released, which is such the major action that agriculture in general can take to reduce emissions from its activities, i.e. Released energy from agricultural sources, which in many lands have become a very large source of energy in the world of renewable energy to be talked about. Achieving in this regard would be a worthy task for a professional worker committee when it deals with the matter of using potential eutrophication, which also binds carbon, using the potential for microindustries, and using the possibility of producing electrical energy from dumps in dumps. These are all things that sort of fit into all this picture of ours. Then there are many other opportunities that we may not be able to discuss in this matter of Congress, but it is important for us to consider that the energy we are using in our main occupations. This is in short my input into this debate about energy change and this fine Senate arrangement and then start again with it as I made the beginning of my speech to say: The minister makes a completely new tone because when we talk about energy change and when we talk about moving forward and increasing e.g. Electric energy in transportation, we're actually talking about homes, and we have to talk about this in terms of domestic interests. Homes around the country need us to expand our transport system so that it is possible to participate in this major project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u160	A respectable president. I couldn't afford to come back here in a pita after listening to speeches why. senators who spoke before me. I'd like to start by saying things with what's happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who rejoiced for a new tone coming from the highest. Minister. I just have to say, I'm pretty optimistic about how we can get together on these subjects. Hv. paritaprevir Einar Björn Einarsson asked earlier in a frame plan. That's why I just wanted to come up here and put this material into my speech. As I look at this, this material is closely linked to so many other cops, policies, and tools that governments have, and into our tables at the General Assembly, as we look at the underlying goals. Of course, financial interests also exist when it comes to using foreign fuels, not imported. But the underlying environment, of course, is reducing emissions and walking on the environment in general. This plan has to do with a frame plan, it has to do with a system plan, it has to do with what I would like to see; a energy efficiency programme, i.e. not a collection but what to use the energy, how much energy we want to see in industry, how much of a home, how much green activity and how much energy exchange. The plan has something to do with a transport plan. Will We Build Up? I entered the city line in my first talk and why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came into the farm. This has to do with the livestock deal. That's where we pointed out why. A senator rightly has various opportunities. In this context, all manufactures against import need to be reviewed. What does it mean to import more and more agricultural products? That I do not talk about climate policy, which is expected to be followed by a recent report on the state of the climate. So I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to encourage the highest. Minister, not that I think she needs special encouragement because it sounds like I'm talking. A minister speaks in a very similar way as I think, in order to view these matters completely than we have. There's been talk of the need for the travel special office, I'm not gonna reduce that need. I reflected on the need for the climate Ministry, the climate Ministry, the climate office. It would be contrary to all the ministry and all the issues associated with the target and process, going through it, because it should be blown into the whole administration system and being everywhere in question, if we are going to achieve real results, which I want to hear and are convinced that at the highest level. Ministers agree that it is necessary. Before I step out of the platform, I'm going to come back to see which committee is referred to. That shows just how closely this is all connected. Actually, this case should be held at home in most of the Generals' committees. I just hope there's going to be as much cooperation in these topics as possible with an environmental committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u161	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the good and upbuilding conversations, and firstly agree. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson speaking even ... oftheencouragingsystem for the ships, which is key. Similarly, energy security is one of my emphasis. There is certainly a flash in the air, as has previously been seen in the electrical report of a former industrial minister. Of course, we have to watch the demand, so I'm referring to electrical energy. This calls for increased supply. That may be the big thing, and it can't be overlooked. This is not the only element in these matters. Rather, it is called for an increased supply in many places. There was only mention of a city line. That's good. But it's not in this, I guess, because it's part of the community custody, but as the whole discussion here has shown, it's all part of a bigger picture. I agree with everybody else. Elders who have mentioned that this is part of a larger picture, yet we must not forget that this is just one part of the big picture. We have this project that will then break down on a number of projects and many departments and many institutions. This project will never do all the work we need to do, but it is one thing in many people. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy spoke of a vision, saying that we need to go far beyond what is being done here. The workaholics and after the events of an environment and transportation committee can make a special examination or have some opinion about it, but I am stressing that despite being fully developed by vision, I feel that it is important to be realistic, so that it can also be stressed as a way of doing so. It is easier to ignore any lack of interest in institutions or communities in some way if vision is so that it may no longer be practical. If we look back to 1990 and up until 2030, then the reality is so amazingly altered that if we run the electricity of the entire car fleet, it's not enough; we'd have to stop all the tourists who want to come here and see our beautiful country driving cars, at any rate, if they run on fuel, which I as a minister of travel would, of course, know, say not to put it into perspective. There are a number of factors that were presented here that involve the whole climate and the work being done at the Environment Ministry, so there are different options for what I'm saying. Often the discussion was out for this document and this project, and again I stress that this is just one part of it. Of course, it's not just an environment. It's also economic and energy security here. This is also a business of industry and innovation, which is why it is also saved by the Department of Employment. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson has built a nest. I agree with him that it's a good thing, but there's the picture he pulled up pretty big. That picture is bigger than this one. I agree with someone else. Councilmen, I'm personally fond of the big movie and interesting to discuss. But to reiterate this, neither automobiles nor transportation as a whole can be the only solution. That needs to be clear. I emphasize, of course, that this document is not sacred. It is a living document that will likely make some changes in the committee. I agree, too, that it's a good thing for the job board to send it to a management board on the environment and transport board. I think it would be very useful for us to get as many people at the table, perhaps especially because the Environment Minister will further oversee his work here, which, of course, is the project of the Senate. Because it all speaks together, it must be helpful and helpful to discuss this as well as the environmental and transport committee. I'd especially like to agree with what. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, when discussing agricultural possibilities. I welcome that thought. He briefly discussed microindustries. Hv. A senator is very interested in them, and he has infected me with their interest. I'm glad you're here. It's a good approach and sustainable, as is good development. I don't know exactly because it was done before my time at the Ministry, if anything has been discussed with the agriculture process. Perhaps it could have been done more and more, but there is something that the committee can consider. Again, I highlight the structure of infrastructure in this context and the importance of the distribution system of electricity, which is one of the reasons for energy exchange. We would not really be able to fulfill all of what is presented here with the position that is today if nothing had to be done there. This context of energy exchange and the necessary development of electricity transport and distribution systems is important. As I said before, the transport and distribution systems of electricity cannot be talked about plans for national energy exchange. That's why, as was very clear in the language of everyone. Councilmen, must look at these issues in context and approach them in a responsible way for a long time. I'm also going to join Gunnar I. Guðmundsson, okay? Pirata's senator, and the speculations he had on the fishing grounds, believe that the ideas and speculations of the committee are not part of the committee's work. Finally, I will say that I am no better than we have at the council all the opportunity to approach this matter in a wholesome way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u162	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the authority for the government to validate for Iceland on the free trade between EFTA and Georgia signed on June 27, 2016, Bern, Switzerland. EFTA and Georgia began a conversation over the construction of a vacation contract in September 2015 and finished the talk in February 2016. The contract contains mutual delinquency and a reduction in industrial products, marine products, and theindustrial agricultural products. Tolls will thus fall from the value of the contract on all sea products and industrial products exported from Iceland to Georgia. The same is true of the major agricultural products produced here in the country for export. The treaty will therefore improve the competitiveness of Icelandic immigrants who take their goods to Georgia. It is also part of the common EFTA project to improve the marketing of their enterprises into markets around the world. By this agreement, the EFTA countries have jointly made 27 such vacation contracts with 38 states, states, or states. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the free trade agreement. It tells us that the contract includes the two contracts. the provision of trade, trade of services, right to establishment, protection of the brain rights, public shopping, as well as business and sustainable development. The exports from Iceland to Georgia have been small over the years, but it has increased over the past few years to over 300 million. K. Last year. Georgia's import has also been small. With mutual delinquency and the reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the increase in trade between countries. Georgia may not be a powerful economic power, but we do have to negotiate with the countries that are not in our place because it is absolutely impossible that they will achieve the economic prosperity that we and the countries we compare with us, except by means of other markets. I'll draw attention to that, I'm not going to read all the Congress resolutions, on the basis of the contracts, and so in general with the EFTA state, there are also various regulations related to things that we want to see and are more specific on page. 1 and p. 2 of the Parliamentary decree. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u163	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister of his historical background here and would like to ask him about what he actually mentioned in his brief discourse, i.e. which attracts sustainable development and that this is one of the factors listed here. I see that in chapter 10, business and sustainable development are exactly what shows that economic, social, and environmental developments are independent factors that support sustainable development in a mutual way. I think that those of us involved in politics in the 21st century have an obligation to consider such things as sustainable development, as well as climate change and climate change. I just want to have a place to talk to. Ministers on it and this interaction, in part in general, I want to use this opportunity because this is a declaration of a free trade deal with a distant state. I think we always have to think about these things. It is true that Georgia is not a powerful economic power and can be strengthened by trade. But we also need to think about the eco-efficiency that comes from the transfer of other countries. Therefore, I would like to ask: Has there been any debate about whether it should only increase the general trade between the EFTA and Georgia, or should the products lacking in these countries be viewed specifically and therefore it is necessary to move between the states, but is it not that it can be economicly beneficial for any member of the EU? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her answer. I draw attention to the fact that I did not read the motion all the time. What I'm here to say, because of what I'm referring to. A senator referred to sustainable development and the environment, on page 24. 2 shows up, with President's permission: The commitment of the Member States to aim for sustainable development as well as their recognition of the importance of business, environment and work policy coordination. It is also a persistent agreement to take the terms of the contract according to the environmental protection and practical resource use objectives. There are other factors that have nothing to do with similar matters. Regarding the lack of management, it is not taken into account in these contracts, but we do not know how such a thing develops. I hope there's an opportunity for some immigrants here to see parishes in this and business opportunities. They don't do that unless they have some goods they have there. But at the same time, and above all, I hope this will push Georgia's economy and make them sustainable, for they are in many ways in a very difficult position. I think it's our moral obligation that claims to help poorer countries not just talk about it. With all due respect for development aid, which, of course, is of great importance, it will not do anything if we do not help the states and people in these countries to become economically independent and to become stronger than today. We don't do that unless we open our markets. I hope some people in Georgia can sell some goods here. What they are, I have no idea, because we do not know the ways of the people and the market, and we will never be able to foresee them properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u165	Madam President. I don't disagree with the highest degree. Ministers when it comes to our having to promote and promote sustainable communities. One of the ways is sure to be through business. There's something I think we need to check. I believe, however, that we also need to keep in mind climate change and how we deal with it. Hence, we also need to remember that some products may not be necessary to move long distances, rather than to look to climate goals. I'm only suggesting that we make other contracts, whether at work it's going to be at the top of the two viewpoints. Ministers or members of Congress, for I think we must always share this view, which is the climate issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u166	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here speaks of very important aspects of the environment, which take the nature of a matter across the border. I'm glad to hear that. A senator agrees with me on the value of a vacation store. I think if we're going to be successful in the environment, first of all, people need to consider them and set their goals, but I don't think they're going to do that unless we're going to be successful in technology. Actually, it's about us taking the part of the world that's in the place we were in a long time ago and putting it in the place we are now, not the way we did it. The countries that are most successful in environmental matters are those that enjoy the most economic prosperity. Me and the Icelanders have a lot to offer in this regard. There is also the possibility that if everyone were to use the energy as we do, the world would not be affected today. [[The president calls.]] It's about transporting knowledge another, including To Georgia.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u167	A respectable president. I sincerely welcome this vacation contract with Georgia. I now think that I am one of the few in this council hall who has gone to Georgia and was there for a while, so I embrace it quite, so to speak. What I would like to know, perhaps more curious, is whether a foreign minister will use himself in some way before the launch of Georgia, Georgia, and vice versa. Now I know Georgia is a very wealthy country, and so to speak, it's going into a mess. The wealth has been increasing in that country, and the situation is changing rapidly, including the United States. of the European Union and the free trade agreements being made. So I think this is a very good step for Georgia, but also for Iceland, because like the highest. Not long ago, a minister mentioned that we were in a position similar to Georgia. Not long ago, Georgia's entire villages received electricity. After the fall of the Soviet Union, everything was a paralytic. This country needs a lot of support. I'd like to know if the Secretary of State has some planning or ideas about how we could better introduce Iceland, and possibly the other way around, and how to cooperate when it comes to introducing Georgia to Iceland. I think it would be very successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u168	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for what she has said and is pleased to know that she is celebrating this contract and that we want to inform her, as we discuss it. A senator is not the only member of this council hall who has gone to Georgia. True, I left just after the opening, after the east kingdom was liberated from Communism. That's how it was, because of what it was. A senator mentioned the energy issue, that the electricity in Tiblis averaged every 20, 30 minutes. It was interesting to be at that place where things were like that. It's so nice to talk about. About a question why. A senator turns this on how we will use ourselves to introduce our products and services in such countries as Georgia and how we introduce what Georgia has to offer, but I have not been in the Ministry for long. On the other hand, I have some ideas that relate to that as a matter of course. A senator mentioned. On the one hand, I think maybe we can do better with a presentation of what we have to offer and, of course, in Georgia and other countries. I especially look to the developing world. We need to be very focused on how we help the developing nations. I don't know how Georgians stand in this regard, at least we have no development aid there, and now I have to admit that I'm not prepared for numbers about Georgia's national product, but we certainly do not support this state in a direct way. But if we're going to help the countries I mentioned, of course we all have countries, we need to help them present their products on the markets as we do. It's not about any particular country, but like a whale. A senator correctly mentions this one of the things we must do if we are to help those countries in the place where we want to see them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u169	A respectable president. I'm so happy to hear it. Ministers have now gone to Georgia as I have. It's not that long since I was there, only five years or so. I think there are applications with this vacation contract, just like the highest level. A minister mentions, not only when it comes to a vacation store and store, but also simply by means of development. You can, for example, do so. Note that when it comes to energy, there are parishes in Georgia and Iceland, certain skills there, as well as in women's rights. I think the highest. A minister of foreign affairs might bring up women's rights, as it were, trampled on there. It hasn't changed much. It is mostly the women who have the Georgian economy at the moment. [[The president calls.]] It is for many reasons that I would be happy to discuss with the highest. Minister for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u170	A respectable president. Again, I agree with you. Senator. I think there's something that we can be happy that in our development aid, much of the emphasis is on conveying what we do well. Hv. A senator mentioned two things. It's both in the United Nations University here in Iceland. Hv. A senator named the earth's heat. That's something we've been blaming around the world for a long time. There will be an even greater demand for it, and it is important to do so now, as it were. of what it was. A senator spoke of what he was doing. A senator Steinunn Steinunnath of the Year's Árnadóttir mentioned earlier on climate issues. We have the United Nations School for Earth's Combat. We have a United Nations school on fishing, although it does not completely help Georgia, as well as a school of equality, in land healing. Of course, it is important for us, since we have done well, that we share that experience with other nations. [[The president calls.]] I can't say anything else, but I agree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u171	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history. I'd like to ask him a few details. A package of free trade agreement states that Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland will impose their commitment to promote democracy, rights, and freedom according to their duties as national rights, including their commitment to national rights. As shown in the treaty of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I'd like to hear his ideas on exactly how this vacation agreement will contribute to and support democracy, legal regulations and human freedom at the time of the Human Rights Watch Management Association's new report. That's where even the two of them come from. Until the International Crime Court authorized his prosecutor last year to study war crime and crime against mankind in the time of war between Russia and Georgia in 2008. In February last, a special U.S. adviser on violence against women published a very black report showing a serious national ratio of violence against women. Also, a leading human rights organization in Georgia, a young Georgian lawyer organization, published a report that last year showed that the city's cities are being tortured by the authorities that have never been investigated. It's a violation of human rights, and I'm very interested in hearing the highest. Secretary of State and his ideas on how Iceland can get in there with this vacation contract. Although conditions may have occurred During the past few years in Georgia, there is a situation in a country where city rights are trampled on. I'd like to hear some of the best ideas. Secretary of how Iceland can get in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u172	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentions something of enormous importance that is human rights. Just to be said, the countries we do business with, even with, very much, are not the conditions we will deal with when it comes to human rights. I think it's the norm. Although there are several major human rights violations, we still did not accept such abuse. If you go to the Amnesty pages and look at countries in Europe and the European Union, there's a lot of pots broken, although I hope it's not like the case that happened. A senator referred here. The same is true of many countries, of course not all, but many countries that are farther away from us. Then the question is, How do people approach it? Iceland and I can do something about it. Number one, we can set a good example, which I think is key. Second, we can discuss these international issues. There's something I intend to do and will do in a few days on a farm. But then the question is, Should we try to improve communication between countries we disagree with regarding human rights, or should we reduce them? I think the general rule is that the more we interact with each other, the more likely we are to carry out the ideas that we represent and agree on. This is not to say that all the countries we deal with are exactly at the place we wanted to see about the lawsuits. A senator mentioned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u173	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, even though I may not have received the clear answers I would have wanted to hear from the highest level. Minister. My question earlier was about the commitment of Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland to support democracy, legal regulations, human rights, and freedom in accordance with their duties to national rights. It is good to set a good example and speak for international human rights. But my question was precisely about the validation of a free trade deal between EFTA and Georgia, how we can get in a clear and powerful way and speak and fulfill our commitments, which are clearly laid down in this contract, because there is indeed a wide range of pots broken in that country, as I was trying to trace the above and quote a report by the Human Rights Watch. I would have liked to hear a little more clearly about it, more than to speak for human rights and set a fine example internationally. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to reiterate my question, "How is it the highest? " The minister of the foreign countries takes note of exactly how we can use ourselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-24-32.u174	A respectable president. I don't know what the answer is. A senator wants to know how it can be clearer. Hv. A senator knows these matters very well. Hv. A senator knows we don't have jurisdiction in these states. Hv. A senator also knows that we will not use military force to pass these ideas through. Hv. A senator knows quite that we can do certain things, which I hope we can do. A senator would agree that we should do so. The reason for this is mentioned in the contract is natural to emphasize it. If these conditions are not met, we can naturally point out that humans do not live up to what they have written. But we cannot change the situation in these lands by force, not there or elsewhere. We just don't have any place to do that. Even if we say we don't do any free business deal with one country, it won't change those things in any of the basics. Actually, I think it would have a bad effect. I think it would make the struggle more difficult for those who are affected by human rights in these countries. I'll just say one thing to what. Senator and Congress: I'll put it to work as I can, but let's just see that it's primarily in words. [[The president calls.]]
