ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u1	Borist has a letter from 2th. Witchest. "Granni Bragi Sveinsson, "that he will not be able to do any act of Congress in the near future. So today, at Arms II, a deputy of the Future Party Art, Lilja Sigurðardóttir. 1 strategist of the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, has announced before. Lilja's letter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not taken place before in the Council and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u2	Lilja Sigurðardóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u3	President. I wanted to mention to this team that tomorrow's meeting isn't on the Web. We know that there is one specific discussion to be on the program, but according to my information, we still do not know what that discussion is. So I encourage a respectable president, Prime Minister, and members of Congress to be more willing to accept this subject on a program. We need to know more about what we are about to talk about for the future. In this way, I would like to ask a respected president to consider my request to bring up a special discussion of understanding as Prime Minister on a national report. The contents of this report are one of the topics that have been discussed, but the development of that report is another matter, a matter where Prime Minister secreted information and tried to lie about it. We need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u4	A special discussion was given at a meeting of the council groups and at the Presidency Meeting this morning, so these matters were considered, and they tore up what was the main focus of the groups that had requested discussion. I assume mail will be sent out on the first issue tomorrow, but I know that this preparation has lasted a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u6	Madam President. I must come up here and ask the highest. The prime minister to explain that two reports he made to be a financial and economic minister during that office did not appear late and eventually. One was a report on macropolitic matters, the property of Icelanders in debino societies followed by a Economic and Business Commission in October s. but not until recently appeared. V.E.G. A minister has said that it was a mistake for that publication to be delayed. However, it is a report on the correction. This report was adopted at the General Assembly in October 2015, so it took an incredible long time to receive the report of my request and eight other members of Congress on a case that was the major political issue of the last government and the last election period. She's just out there, too. I don't think I or the highest. Whether the content of these reports would have affected the outcome of the last election, the prime minister is worthy of judgment. I heard it thrown yesterday, quoted at the top. Prime Minister, that he felt it had nothing to do with their earlier appearance. That's not the point of this case, Madam President, it's a complete detail and neither I nor the highest. Ministers are worthy of judgment on whether this content would have had anything to say on the outcome of the election. The main issue is the obligation of the Minister to communicate information, on the other hand, to the General and to the general public. That's the big deal here. On the other hand, we have the right to give an answer to this report by members of the Parliament and to the general public the right to publish information available. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who now leads the government, leads the Commission's communications with the legislators, whether he approves of this performance, whether he feels that the evidence should not have been better published, and whether he does not owe an apology to the General for the fact that this information has not been published earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u7	Madam President. It is more than likely to discuss these matters depending on any way the members of the council would like to do; here in the Hall, in this question period, and with special discussions I have agreed to discuss here this week. I've been answering for these matters before. Now, therefore, in connection with these matters, it is related to the general obligation of the minister to answer the council. It is said that matters have not been answered. This was the case, for example. in the government as hell. a questioner sat in that in April 2013 the number of queries had not been answered. [[Take it up: Pick it up.]] There will have been 19 written requests that were not answered for the 2013 elections. This question is why, on the one hand, the National Report didn't come to the council, and I've answered it many times, it was because of my election and the intention of bringing the report to the Commission for which it had died, and I've said that I'd better give the matter to the council as the circumstances were. Of course, those who have been discussing this matter have observed in the second word throughout the entire period that the report contained information that was absolutely necessary to communicate with the people of the country before election. Then when I ask what this information is, what it is in the report that is so important and that is so important and could have caused a turning point in elections, there will be few answers. Then, in turn, it is so important that a minister should report to the council. I agree with that. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, and there's nothing new that has failed to answer all the written inquiries from the Council at the time, unfortunately. Hv. One inquirer knows this well because she herself did not answer all the requests for the 2013 elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u8	Madam President. I would have thought it was the highest. The prime minister could do a little better in his reply. There were, at least, 22 written requests that remained at the height. The former financial and economic minister went out of the last government with his partners, so, of course, questions aren't answered. However, these are two reports. I haven't said anywhere that I believe that the content of the national report could have affected the outcome of the election even at the highest. Let the minister do so. However, it is only natural in the macropolitical language that caused the elections to rush, when it is available, to be published when ready. And so can the correction. I'm not saying that it must have affected the outcome of the election. But this is a macropolitic case, the largest political issue in the last government. Is it not reasonable for members of Congress to request 2015, in October 2015, that we demand that we be answered, on the whole of eight pages that were received, until then?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u9	Madam President. I don't have a problem with what. A member of the Parliament that it is by far the best chance for reports to be answered quickly and safely to the council, e.g. A request from Pétur H. Blöndalur, the last term he had to make three times in order to submit to the government but never received an answer. On three occasions, the same inquiry appeared for the council. Never did he get an answer from the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, never, the government that was. A senator sat in. I'm more than ready to agree with what. A senator would agree that the management board is so strong, well designed, and dynamic that inquiries are best answered and speeded. With the correction report, she took too long. But do not forget that it was returned to the council in contrast with what was meant by the request given by the never - to - be - born Blöndalur H.. And the same is true of the national report. She was returned to the council. Information was promised, information was provided. That's what happened in these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u10	Madam President. The web site is listed at the highest level. Minister of Justice that she attended an informal meeting of Justice and Minister of Justice in Valletta, Malta, January 26, 2000. Since the issues of the trustees and the Schngeren society were being discussed. A press release for the meeting will appear, with permission of the president: There, the secretary reported the focus of Iceland's new government on trust issues as well as Iceland's doubts about the planned changes to the Daffron Protocol, i.e. increased responsibility for the payment of shelters and the continuation of shelterers from European countries who accept most of the refuge attendances to countries that are not comparable to the pursuit of trustrs. To promote such changes, a minister spoke of a fundamental change in the political community. After a discussion, it was clear that countries continue to discern the best ways to cope with the increased flow of wasters to Europe. The story isn't detailed, but it raises some questions. Iceland has here to avoid taking a real responsibility together with other European countries because of the geographic situation in the country, which includes that we are never the first stop of the trustees, so we can almost always send people out of the country, all the way on the basis of the Order of Dublin. The conduct of this country has been by the fact that we use every authority to send people back to countries where their basic human rights are put out just so we don't have to take our share. I especially refer to repeated extemporaneous recoverys to Italy, now the last homosexual from Iran who is seriously at risk in Italy. As we know, Italy is among the countries that have to be met by most of the refugees, along with Greece, Malta, and Spain. I'm asking the highest. The minister of three: What changes are exactly what a minister believes is a fundamental change in national cooperation on the basis of the Order of Dublin? Is a minister opposed to the idea of increasing Europe's collective responsibility because of the payment of trust? Would the secretary's counsel oppose the expulsion of the inmates to Italy on the basis of the Order of Dublin, especially in those who belong to defenseless groups, such as the Ámír, the homosexual takeover from Iran, is an example?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u11	A respectable president. It is true that I had an informal meeting with my colleagues, not only in the European Union, but in the Schengen area, where there were once again ideas of changing the Dublin Protocol in order to have the participation party assigned to take over the position of the State for the first payment. I pointed to this, along with other justice ministers of other countries, that there was a fundamental change in Regulation. In this regard it was to make up the question that the change would also limit the resources of the trustees to move to their posts in the European Union. In this regard, the question was specifically discussed whether such a change in the Dublin Protocol was intended solely on the basis of the statistical facts, i.e. that it would be obligatory to receive a certain number of inmates without any other viewpoints. I stressed that it was unrealistic to handle the interests of the inmates in this way. It would be in harmony with both humanitarian and human rights to always look to the prospects and wish those seeking refuge at any given time so that it would not be the sending of inmates to lands where they would not be interested in staying. As a result, there would be some sort of continuation, an idea of banning at this stage. I strongly warned that this would be the route. However, there is now an idea that instead of changing the Dublin Protocol, they place this obligation on other European countries at the scene of the European Union rather than on the scene of Schengen, so that I will answer a partial inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u12	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, but I'd like more than that. It's the highest. Ministers against the increased responsibilities of European countries in the pursuit of trust, especially Iceland? Will a minister take steps against being expelled from the country, especially to Italy and Greece? Then I prefer sensitive groups such as, for example, Gays, or children, and other groups that have been identified as sensitive groups, both under foreign law and also by the order and by the United Nations International Refugee Organization. What exactly does a minister think is a fundamental change in the Schengen community service? What exactly does that have to do with the EU or in this issue with the Secretary - Minister's Order of Dublin? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u13	A respectable president. I'll go to the last question. That is especially so, as I described earlier, that there are ideas upstairs that after they have received a release for the asylum, they will take the steps of the trustees. It's called in English, by permission of the President, caused by the secondary moment. It's, for example. The core and core structure of the Schengen Convention. Of course, the tactics and participation in Iceland are based on an agreement. In nature, therefore, it is such that a fundamental change in the Dublin Protocol involves a fundamental change in cooperation. Here, too, questions asked about increased cooperation. Of course, Iceland does not violate the increase in participation and acceptance of the trustees in this country, and Iceland is doing a very good job in the company of the trustees, whether it is a part of the host or the welcome of candidates for international protection. [[The president calls.]] Iceland is on the level of appeal in that context and is going to continue in it, and it is possible that there will be a higher-relevant greeting rate in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u14	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with the stewards and members of Congress who say it's important that the parties of the Marine Controversy shoulder responsibility and find a solution to the bargain table now that the strike has lasted in the eighth week. Seafood is one of our most important occupations, and especially is the spine, and sometimes the only sector in some regions around the country, small and large. It's not a good situation. We're losing many of our best markets, the one paying the highest price. The total number of fish workers on unemployment is nearly 1,600. Transporting companies and other services are very difficult for the article. The small number of bloods that will contribute to a further compression in the article, which is sufficient, and one of the main points of political debates is a loss of response. At the same time, each minister steps forward with the highest power. A sea chief of armies, telling the state that this marvelous economic problem will not come in any way. That's why I'm asking the highest. The prime minister who in the last summer, as secretary of finance in the last government, was willing to help solve the issue, then, by opening up a day - to - day money system, as seen in other classes working away from home, which led several members of the council. paritaprevir Páll, the Jóhann of Pálsson, in terms of day or day's allowance, has been submitted to the council again. With everything in place, an economic impact on the population is much and even more serious in life and living a large and wide number of people around the country, businesses and rural areas, the highest. Prime Minister that this is out of the question, if indicated, in the weekend's discussions statements. So I ask, " What's changed? ' Is this really a new government base policy? A complete lack of interference with one of the most important and often one industry appeals to communities?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u15	Madam President. It is proper to state that I have asked that the government does not have the privilege of re-electing a sailor's discount, his tax arrangement. But, of course, we've been in touch with the state - of - state struggles, through incidents, conversations with individual parties, and closely observe the progress of this long strike as well as the driving. A senator runs here, has a very serious influence in many parts of the community, not just on the strikers, either side of the board, but on the third party. This effect is even increasing as time passes. That is why I have wanted to reiterate the great responsibility that lies on the shoulders of those involved here. There is no way to minimize the impact of the strike. When these disputers approached the government in the fall of the year, some kind of appeal for food money could be registrared as to whether any contracts will go along and whether the seaman president would recommend them in his backyard. In such a situation, we were. A senator agreed that it was right for us to try to pay for the success of the dispute, and for this, there were also many other reasons. On the other hand, the situation today is in a completely different place, and the point is that it is very complex, difficult, and farfetched for governments to try to enter the issue. It is not the same as it was then, saying that the disputers have taken over matters of conflict but would bring only one distinct part of the matter to the government to pray for relief. [[The president calls.]] This is why the situation is not comparable to what used to be. We will continue to pay attention and pay attention to the solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u16	A respectable president. It's good to hear the tone as high as possible. To this end, the prime minister gives that it is not excluded that the government will proceed. It's certainly quite a different tone than the highest. High minister of the sea, maybe even the highest. Secretary of finance has suggested something. Actually, I don't understand in terms of day-and-day money or food money rules that they should not apply in general to sailors like others, where there are such rules in all countries in the North Atlantic, all the way in Norway and the Faeroe Islands, but not in Iceland after the seamen's discount was taken away. No one is talking about recording it. Rather, it is talking about whether the government is ready, as we have seen, that work is started in an analysis of national and national damages, and, depending on. a lot of pressure from a job committee. Therefore, it is a pleasure to hear that a secretary of finance does not rule it out, but I wonder if there is a problem in the government when it is determined that they are not going to do this, and then you have heard in the individual members of the government who feel that it will not be possible to solve some of the biggest issues that have existed for the longest time in one of the most important sectors of the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u17	Madam President. We in the government have wanted to be absolutely clear that we are not going to release a party from their responsibility. We do not wait on the sidelines for a role in this dispute. It is not that the government meets a certain requirement, but we appreciate it very seriously. What I have found to be a lack of from this council is that we take this discussion on a more broad ground and ask ourselves: Is not there something wrong in the Icelandic labour market model when one of our most important resources is ruined for months, as is going on right now? Or when our most vulnerable institutions, such as operating rooms in hospitals, are taken into a parley argument, and patients thus almost become direct victims of a parley? Isn't it a lot of thought for the Generals that our labour market model should invite this to happen and a state-friendly man has no tools, no tools more than merely to make some mobilization proposal to cut the knot? [[The president calls.]] We need to look to all eight of this, not just those who are involved in the dispute.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u18	Madam President. The report on Iceland's property in ethnic areas is interesting, and it has resulted in a wide range of discussions in the community on tax cover, on their use, on the methods used by a wealthy Icelander, some of whom have used to shelter their property from the IRS. Social media, media, and press reports have covered the story, laid out the need to prevent the preconceived and tax evasion, what measures are working to counteract them, and who are the most involved in such fraud with society. Such discussions in the controversies of elections had obviously further drawn the attention to the Panama documents and the reason for choosing sooner than expected. But the highest. The prime minister decided to delay the release before the election. Another report that was also ready for election is the report on the large promise that led to the development of the national groups at the time of the election for a greater proportion of voters in the 2013 election. This report first reported how the adjusted process, called 72.2 billion dollars, was adjusted. which were paid from the state's funds, divided between income and property groups in Iceland. V.E.G. During a campaign campaign, the prime minister decided to keep her in the Ministry's wall too. This report included: until the half of the population with the highest assets received 72% of all the money paid and 10 percent of the Icelanders received about a third, or 22 billion dollars. Clearly, the report would have raised much discussion in the leading of elections, drawing attention to the project, to its injustice, to the development of prices and status of those who never received, tenants, and young people, for example. So I want to ask the highest. Whether he drew these reports, either or both, directly to what many people wonder, because they had been adversely affected by the independence party in the election. If that wasn't why, then why was she?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u19	President. The answer to the question is no, so it is out. It's like whisk. A senator is asking himself: " Could any reports in progress possibly have had some positive effect on her own category in the election? I can't answer that in myself, but I call for a reason. A senator who wants to take the points of these reports on the program points that are lacking in the discussion of either of these matters. In the national report, what subjects were the factors that prevented it. A senator could wield himself and put the Panama papers on a tight schedule like that. paritaprevir Did Jónsdóttir Jónsdottir make such a memorable move in the TV hall the day before election, or all the others who wanted to make it the big campaign? Whatever the facts were in the report. A senator would have liked that? Is this really hard to evaluate? Is it true that we have a marvelous lack of data on these issues? Is it true that there is nothing special that the report points out that governments have failed to do in order to prevent these problems? What material could have saved the United States in the last election if they had only settled before it was chosen? Or the other report on the economic impact of the correction. Of course, it is a shame that we would not have had the same distribution of tequilas by the 110%, with an average of 7 million going to every family that had real estate, which, in the correction process, was 1.2 million. In the 110% route, how much of this average 7 million went to those without real estate? 0K. Zero. Of course, none of them will go to them during such an operation that does not own property and does not owe their mortgages. But that is really the subject of this report. And I would like to be asked for a special discussion on the effect of correction. I'd love to be a part of it. Then let us consider the subject of this report in relation to some of the other measures being taken, the 110% pathway, the legal correction of the currency loans, and so we wonder here at the Senate Hall how much child reforms went on to families without children or even how much interest was paid to those who didn't owe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u20	Madam President. For the then government, the two reports were a dramatic matter. They were about two of the main issues of the season. The reports contain information that concerns the public and that obviously was important in the leading of the last election. The report on tax fraud by rich Icelanders provides confirmation that their national activity was not limited to one legal office and was much greater than that of our neighbors. It was made clear how governments under the Head of the Independence Party drew the crash in order to set rules to make it difficult to transport money into the tax industry. And to say as it has been done that it was good for the Independence Party to discuss debt abduction in the fallout of an election is like any other joke. The surveys also showed that only a quarter of the people responded positively and satisfied with their actions. I'd like to ask you what it is that gets to the highest. The prime minister to think that the material discussion of the reports that have been conducted would not have been made if the reports had appeared before elections and that the material discussions and news items had nothing to do with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u21	Madam President. I've said so many times over and over again that each person can have his own opinion on how these reports could have affected. I'm just calling on someone who claims it was so important to point out something that wasn't already there. Here we go. A senator mentioned two, three things that were already ahead of him, critical of the fact that the previous government had not done something about it. It's an old tug. That's the subject that's been discussed many times. This report does not reveal any new information. Or that the Icelanders were very close to these matters. That is what was specifically discussed. Was a what? A senator was not one of those who specifically promoted it? But okay. I'm not going to judge it for each and every one about this evaluation. I have often explained how the report was produced and why it appeared when it appeared. Let us just keep it in mind that both of these reports were compiled and submitted to the council. Yet, it is in this hall that something has been kept secret forever. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, it's going to be done.]] It will continue to be done. Yeah, yeah, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u22	A respectable president. I trust it to the highest. A secretary of transportation is a source of concern to me about the emphasis and emphasis of this regional government. But a word at the highest. Minister, including. about Reykjavíkur Airport, have given me and other reasons to hope to the highest degree. A minister is an exception to that category and emphasis in it in this government. People have gone so far as to call it the highest. Minister of hope, light in darkness in settlements. That's why I'm going to ask the highest. Minister on his position, actually the Reykjavík airport, but two other airports too. First, what's the highest attitude. Minister, now that he has had time to look into the situation, for the future location of Reykjavík airport, the whole airport? That's where I'm talking about the three runways. Tells you the highest. Minister warrants for reopening the third runway, the so called emergency airway? And has the highest. A minister took a look at the work that was done in the last government to open up more airports into the country, which is now a very challenging one? There have been recent reports of the pressures at Keflavík Airport, how many new airlines are starting their flight to and from the country. As a result, the importance of using the land's resources is even more reason than ever to help ensure that these two international airports, Akureyri and Eunice, will be used as such by getting tourists into the country in more places. There's been a lot of work done on this, as I'm sure it would. Minister is aware. What, though, will the minister do in order to follow that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. First around Reykjavík's airport. Reykjavíkur Airport is the center of an internal flight in the country. There has been no decision that this activity will be carried out. While such a decision has not been made, the centre of the international flight will be in Reykjavík at an area of water. With regard to the long future in that subject, it must only be revealed. There are many questions there regarding both locations and costs of a possible new level of construction that could host this service. So I have given this much importance and will emphasize in my discussion with the authorities in the city that we can immediately start building up a service center for employees and passengers on Reykjavík International Airport. You're absolutely right. One senator noted that it is a great deal to distribute our tourists, those who attend here, better out of the country. One of the factors is whether we can open up our minds and pay for a direct plan flight. will be in an airport like a dog. A senator mentioned, in Akureyri and Bulgaria. There have been operations to try to facilitate this. I think it's called a flight development fund, which has actually been modified rules so that he allows not only to fly to these locations but also to fly to an international plane in Keflavík. Iceland's airline will begin a direct flight from Keflavík to these places. I'm afraid we can do as far as we can, the government, to pay this way, but it must be the market that answers who, how, and when these things will happen to a greater degree than we witness today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u24	A respectable president. I would have chosen to the highest. Rather, a minister would be clearer in reply so that he would live up to his name as a minister of hope in this suit. But I'll try to figure out a better question and ask about Reykjavíkur Airport, because answer to the highest degree. The Minister was only what we've heard before, and I think everyone knows that the airport will be in place until another thing comes out of place and the future is lost. But it's the highest opinion. Minister that opening up the third runway, the emergency runway, should at least be considered? At least consider it? And about Akureyri Airport and Eglish Airport: Teles at the highest. Ministers to attack the cost of fuel transport in order to provide fuel in Akureyri and the Egressium at comparable markets? But as it is, jet fuel is high to twice as much expensive at those airports as Cheflavík, claiming that it will blow their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u25	A respectable president. Whether to open up a so - called emergency track back to Reykjavík's Airport is certainly a matter I'm looking at. The so - called Rackt report on the future location of the New York International Airport or the national flight did not consider the safety role that Reykjavík's airport has to do with its inhabitants and its duties to the citizens of the country. Thus, I have temporarily employed a member of the Department of Transport, which is specifically reviewing this role in the field and in the broad sense not only with regard to hospital flights but only in general, security and the public defence role of the field as well. That work should lie ahead of spring, and it will give us more information in that regard. Recently, my attention has been drawn to this massive cost of domestic fuel because of the costs of moving north, and I find that very interesting. [[The president calls.]] I've specifically discussed it in my field at the Ministry, that this is something we need to look at. Also, I've started a job to look at further equations, or such an equation of inhabitants of the country in order to make greater use of domestic flights. [[The president calls.]] It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " They've been talking about a so - called Scottish way that I don't know how to tell so well yet, but I've wanted a special examination. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u26	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for talking to me about public financial matters, as the discussion is important and has an effect on both the legislature and the executives where the whole process is now in important shape. Therefore, it is of vital importance that the success and success of the law were very successful. If I assume the minister will agree with me on that. It would have been best to take up a discussion of our policies, plans, and budgets separately, but to keep them up one after another to get a full depth of the discussion, since, of course, these are all parts of a single unit. I have doubts about how everyone is aware of what is going to be accomplished in each part of the discussion, and I became on a budget committee to address this discussion about the budget now before Christmas, when some thick doors were locked and both members of Congress and interest groups were going to initiate a traditional financial debate. The discussion was technically completed, as was planned. In view of this experience, I think it's highly dangerous that we can agree with a policy without knowing how the initiatives are on the distribution of funds in the budget and later on in financial and financial stocks. I think we need to talk about it better. My experience is still that not everyone is involved in the procedure, either within the council or outside. I am deeply concerned about the very little time that a financial committee has to do with seeing the legal assignments given to the committee and the visitors she thinks she may need to meet. I give a witness to the conference at the General Assembly on Economic Policy, Plan, and then the budget. I don't see how the council should be able to discuss in a brief period of time what most of the Board of Directors and its institutions are discussing and working for the whole year. To me, the matter is basically a careful preparation for the budget and better planning, increased discipline, and greater integration of public funds. This is why Congress needs support. A respectable president. I'd like to know if a financial minister believes that the production of financial policy will lead to that professional discussion, for the main focus in financial policy is overall and debt, but key numbers are not published, e.g. each country's production will be worth billions of dollars. That number is not listed in Haustabistic predictors, and all presentations are based on proportions, but not on numbers. Since financialism is intended for both experts and citizens, I ask the secretary of finance if he does not consider the desired policy to be set up according to both methods, both from transparency and from the point of making it easier for different groups to evaluate policy. It is also of interest to know whether the proportion of the state's funds is the most practical and, if so, how. The government set out a budget which includes the total government budget not to exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product over the period. I'd like to know what that definition is. It is also missing to show how the standards and comparisons of the ratings are expressed in comparison with the latest financial programmes. The Office of Economics is a year from preliminary assessment and there will be no state bill until the end of June when the Council is due for summer vacations. Doesn't the Minister think that information on preliminary assessments of previous financial policies and explanations of abnormalities needs to be made when discussing new financial policy? How practical is the methodology and the emphasis on transparency and informed discussion if its findings can go a long way after the year? Do we not need quantifiable goals immediately? The impact of investments and maintenance on financial matters was seen during the collapse. There is a great impact on banks and government sales, but the policy does not mention key assets that should be sold even if it is known what the value of sales is to be set aside. Does the secretary of finance consider this part of the contribution to financial policies clear enough? Wouldn't it be better if we published it too? Since the time is very short, I will turn my song into a cross and ask a very important question. How does the minister support the arrival of smaller members who have come to this point directly to the legal committee for support when it comes to the financial work? It is not a matter of remuneration that ministers receive considerable increased resources by means of the new law to regulate expenses within their legal categories. One facet of what we senators face is how much power we put on amputating. Senators, however, may have more plans, or they may look at the overall picture, but less are they involved in the payment of decisions and individual funds that many, especially smaller ones, have made up to date. There are both pros and cons, but there is a demand that members of the Parliament have a good view of how the funds are divided between individual institutions and bodies, but a significant need to be made to strengthen the council. So I think it's important that we consider how we visualize the Council's handling of the entire budget, including the rest of the budget. Since recycling aid is not a legal tool and policy marks the box that again marks the plan that ends in a financial follow-up. As I said earlier, the time of committees is extremely limited to work this with zeal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion. It is my hope that the presentation of the policy will lead to a professional discussion. In this regard it can be noted that its main purpose is to promote economic balance over a longer period of time, thereby creating a better basis for more practical use, resources, and resources. The debate over financial policy should focus primarily on how it is used as a government economy while promoting money policy to promote the economy's balance of economic prospects. The professional debate on financial policy is not to be about how much government resources are going to protect for health, education, etc., but rather into a financial program. In financial policy, the main focus is on public financial issues, i.e. growth and debt goals for the public and the public bodies as a whole. With improved growth and protection from the public, the demand for now - to - be is weighed in some way, making it possible for the Sensian to keep steering growth lower than it would have to do, which once again has a positive effect on homes and businesses. The degree of maintenance, however, is always controversial. The main aim of the policy is to promote economic balance in the economy and to promote sustainable and stability in public finance. The enthusiastic debate is about how much maintenance, how much rest, the government is to provide for the current economic situation. Is the policy of supplying enough resources, too little or too much? The same is true of the theory of debt. Is paying off the debt of the government too fast or too slow? It should be noted that in accordance with official financial laws, financial advise whether financial policies meet both the baseline value of the law and the financial rules. It will be published publicly and may be expected to increase the level of professional debate. Hv. A senator also asks how it was decided that the total pay of the public will not exceed 41.5% of gross domestic product. Simply put, this reference was found based on historical developments and also on official status today. The government's firstborn, i.e. Total expenditures in the range of interest costs, in the remaining years after failure, have gone up to this target only once. The mean initials are between 38◯39% in that period. With a reduction in debt, interest costs are reduced. The remaining plan will be about 1.5% of gross domestic product by the end of the season. It appears that the total cost will vary from 413/441.5% for 2017 and the primary expenditure by 38%. Thus, there is a degree of variation in this reference, about 1.53/42% relative to the estimated position in 2022. Hv. A senator asks whether it would be in the best interests of having such a financial approach to real - life statistics. Clearly, such comparisons will be made in the future. This is in accordance with one of the baseline laws on public finances. We are not yet able to make such comparisons because of the shortness of the law and no figures to compare, but I agree with the senator that such comparisons are very important. The question is, What should be involved in the financial work? Public financial laws involve the change that the definition of funds is now down to the topic range and topic classes in the past. This change is aimed at using material discussions about government and council policy on different issues and on the total budget for them instead of the discussions about individual institutions or projects, often to one year. But I completely agree with what. The senator's discovery of a channel in the faunas will be considered in the comments of these smaller parties. The question is, Is it reasonable to set the course both in centenarians and in proportion? I think this might be misleading, because we're talking about a dollar, maybe a dollar worth in the future, and people might think that it would be talking about a few expansions when it wasn't really that much. But I'm quite aware that men understand the proportions of the difference. At last, it was said "wow." A senator whether or not to state the plans for the period of sale. To answer, no special property is planned for sale during this period and, if it happens, it will be subject to extensive consultation with other categories. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u28	President. It's what we're talking about. It's a big deal, and it's very important. However, in the discussion so far, a very important point of the law has not been received notice regarding effective management and administration of public funds, assets, and rights, as discussed in the civil law. Who's watching them? is an old expression that is found in various languages. On the basis of official financial legislation, it's the Parliament, the budget, the administrative and administrative committees and members of Congress. It is our primary responsibility to supervise, to watch, and to ensure that public funds are handled well. In order to stay awake, we must be free of conflict. We are not qualified to monitor ourselves. There's a reason to say in the Senate Code, by permission of a president: Senators should avoid conflicts between public interests and financial and other personal interests or family interests. And members of the council should not use their positions as members of the council to work on their own interests or interests of others so that they are not in harmony with the standards of these matters. In order to maintain effective surveillance, we members of the Parliament can only be biased toward the public interests. To be able to maintain effective monitoring, we need information that is available only if we act on the principle of translucency. The goal of a law on public finances is to prevent official corruption. In many terms so far, we have seen the so - called ultimatum, where projects come to an individual senator or from individual senators who are so lucky to be on committees and are in a position to handle matters while others are not. There is one factor that we need to stress the importance of changing. Public financial laws give special consideration to the fact that we are under surveillance and no longer sharing money. [[The president calls.]] We're monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u29	Madam President. I would also like to thank the advocate of this discussion and the highest. The secretary of finance for his answers, which I found in many ways, was very clear to the work we are dealing with these days at the moment. A legal committee, and we work there as a team. What I wanted to do after the talk that was given before me, and to agree with what others have also said, I feel that not everyone has figured out the changed ways in which these new laws involve. We are talking about three separate matters. First of all, we're talking about financial policy, which marks the box for the entire terms of terms, and we're taking place only once in the terms of an elected period in the beginning of each government session at least. I think the debate over financial policy now, I'm afraid I couldn't be there when she was transferred to the Senate Hall, maybe because we haven't quite figured out the big job she is; it's the one that beats the frames, so after we've typed the frames that are there, the work goes up. The next session that we receive on spring, which is the national budget we have to discuss each year individually, that is, in fact, the big financial gain we know has been in recent years primarily in the fall. I'll be very aware in my line of work that I don't all feel that I've realized it, even if not even members of the state system, let alone any of the key clients of a financial committee, if I may say so, a respectable president, a local government at any given time, have not realized this changing procedure. It must be taken. I'd like to agree too with what. The proponent that we need to examine the Council's work plan and the job, how the budget board has room, tools, and tools to work. I'll wish for that at what. The chairman of the council and the office manager that we are in charge of it, perhaps even after we have more experience in the work we are actually following our first steps, how we can also adapt our new council plan to this changing process. At least it doesn't work in my mind as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for getting up on this fine discussion. There's always a line dance how financialism is presented. According to this, I'd like to say that I find it very reasonable and responsible to have the objective that the total government will not cover 41.5% of GDP over the period. I have to say that I am deeply concerned about the way in which a minor person handles his financial work, which was one of the points of the saying: "I'm really worried about those things. " I am concerned that there is a new law on public financial matters that all work is based on. As a result, the power moves from the Council into the Ministry. A recent example is the work of the General Assembly on budgets for 2017. At that time, it was decided that the funds for Vega were to be donated. going to reform on Smoke Road in the Blue Forest. As soon as we look at it, members of the council get the information that Smokey Road is not on Vega's plan, despite the proposals made by the legal committee and then the State Department of State has made that decision. Then I ask, and I hope to what. A representative of the government can answer: Why are we here spending time on the budget service if nothing or little is addressed to us and our recommendations are being assigned to projects? All right, here's your name. Unlike the former, the council members of Haraldur the son of Benediktsson and Leví Gunnar's Gunnarsson to supervise the new law would be our primary role. Should we not, then, simply refrain from giving attention to special assignments if that is the case? According to this, I am deeply concerned that the same things will apply to the smaller parties and the way they feel about their financial work. The benefits of new legislation are certainly greater discipline and forethought in terms of money, and we certainly need it, but I fear it will be at the expense of Congress and transparency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u31	Madam President. Thank you very much for this important discussion. On the other hand, we have such a big issue that we cannot erase the discussion in half an hour. In my opinion, it is very important that at the General Assembly be given a thorough discussion of the entire financial process. It is now in an important shape, and the way we move into these changes really matters, that we are all aware of what steps are being taken. Therefore, I wish that the discussion would not only be the one here right now but would take four of the discussions where we first considered the financial policy that is once put in terms, which is very important. She can't be changed unless something terrible happens. Then there is the financial agenda, so we need to discuss the role involved. The budget and the role of other professional committees already have on the budget. Then the budget bill will be based on these two cops. Finally, it would be nice to have the fourth talk, since it would all be taken together. That's what worries me, like what's wrong. The perfunctory, that the presentation of financial policy, as reflected in the Parliamental resolution as a financial committee, is now working in no way leading to the professional discussion that is expected to be the goal of it. I'm asking how we're supposed to understand this policy: Despite the overall balance of government policy during the period, much of that direction may be attributed to the economy. It would seem that if corrected, the goods of the State's Fund would be in irons. It is then said that it would be unwise to pursue lasting expenses. We look at this policy and compare it with the declaration of policy and the supreme. Ministers have said in a speech chair, that they want to set up permanent medical expenses, social security, etc., and I'm asking: "What are we going to agree to if we accept a policy of this text? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u32	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for starting this special discussion about public financial matters and how to deal with them. I think that, in view of experience, all of us can agree with the stated objectives of government laws on public finance, which are the means of promoting responsible government of public funds. The stated targets of the law clearly indicate that the contribution of the bill to budgeting will be paid by means of sectoral expenditures and seminaries rather than to the financing of individual institutions and projects. Here we come to the act of the law, which, unfortunately, seems to be lacking in the problems of the council because of some kind of lack of information on how to conduct the law. This is thought - provoking because ambitious preparatory work has taken place inside the administration for many years, and it was being done by specialists in the administration board and during the reigns of four financial ministers. Even so, like the wind. paritaprevir In his speech, Haraldur Benediktsson was impressed by the fact that working under the budget for 2017 in the financial committee under unusual circumstances, it was noted that the instigation of the law and the implementation of the laws had not been made clean within the administrations and that there were some neglects in the act of the law. This is unfortunate, especially as a result of the preparatory work that has taken place and the expertise that should have been built up and formed within the administration. But that may change, and experience will bring us new and better practice. Nevertheless, I would like to contribute here and reflect on the position of the General Assembly, which more members of Congress have taken on, and remind members of what I hope all of them are aware, that it is very clear and stipulated in the Constitution of the Council, 40, 41., 42., and 43.g. The constitution. [[The president calls.]] I would like to suggest that the Council, and then, in particular a financial committee, be strengthened first by the presence of experts in order to preserve the council's financial authority and to make decisions on the distribution of public funds not only on the table of the administration but also on the table of the politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, too. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this matter. This is one of the biggest issues we're working on, and hopefully it will put its back on the work of public funds for a long time. As noted, one of the main purposes of this new law is to promote a professional discussion of this sect to put the public finances better frames and ensure that sufficient time is available to discuss the overall picture before working on the individual aspects of the budget. It is clear that the benefits of the new approach will increase over time, as we begin to enjoy comparing reality with previous financial policies and so forth. We also live in a situation that is not necessary, as it were, but we are working on these matters and are quite behind schedule, as is clear to everyone. The spring, and thus the development of the financial program, is beyond the corner while we are still discussing financial policy. But the overall change is good. Hopefully, in the near future, there will be a positive effect on financial work and public finances. There is one particular thing that I would especially like to mention in connection with the new laws, such as in the discussion at times. The adulation and others. It is how the new business deals with the various smaller members of the community that have so far been able to direct the legal committee in connection with the financial work in search of support. They seek financial support or payment on some project, quite large and small. With the new law, there is a change between the definition of the budget and the litigation of litigation groups instead of going down to the plagiarism. The natural goal is to improve the material discussion of government and council policy on different issues and to discuss the overall budgets in the future rather than contributions to individual institutions or projects to one year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I believe that it is necessary to create a situation in the fauna that these smaller people have access to them and their requests and tips go on a professional course. To ensure that, it is the way to do so. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate that this is a very important link in the chain being designed here with the goal of promoting professional work. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that elected members of Parliament can carry out their monitoring duties on the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u34	President. After all, it's a matter of responsible use of public funds. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir told us to stop talking about something special. It is true in a sense. The process of the matter is different in a new law where the Ministry comes to the Generals and explains the projects it's about to address, according to cost. The Commission makes decisions on the total cost of this topic in relation to a job position. Then, when the project is carried out, we need information about how the money we agreed to use in these activities, whether or not they are being used in a responsible way. To do that, we need data, static and stable, over and over again. That's an enormous power of surveillance. On the other hand, there is a conflict of interest between sharing the money ourselves and then trying to monitor their handling of money. We will keep an eye on ourselves, and we will not be able to do so. It's a conflict of interest. I'm just going to be self-involved and quote Pirata's economic policy: To work for the interests of the public, the responsibility, stability, sustainable development, and long - term goals should be clear in all economics. This rhymes very well with policy and goals, with laws on public finances. We need to look at the bigger picture. We cannot attach ourselves to unique matters. We have to be responsible. Only by doing so can we be able to fulfill our role or our responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] We can hold people accountable if they abuse public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u35	Madam President. Here we will discuss, as has been said, a very large and important matter, which is actually an molding of how we conduct our government affairs, how we act in shape a new legal structure in terms of money, may be justified in saying it, under these issues; financial and financial agendas. Perhaps some of the first steps were taken in this direction by the local communities a few years ago when the debt rules were taken up. We may find ourselves setting a similar standard in the government business to figure out the picture. All of this may be about the disciplined economy in Iceland, that we are going to try to create better conditions for disciplined economic management. Thus, in the historical context, we have never been able to land the economy well. This may be a major project with a new financial policy and financial plan, this new system we're creating right now. It's all for shape. We'll probably discuss in the next few years a percentage, a debt of GDP and other factors. I might point it to the highest. Secretary of the budget with this percentage in the case of a lawsuit, this 41.5%. It was explained, but maybe it would be more correct to talk about it being 393/41.5%, or whatever, just depending on the pace. Well, it's all about swings, all this stuff, as it clearly shows in financial policy, i.e. about what it's all about. That's what we're trying to do, that the state, the community, public members, and just the homes of the country are going to have a more disciplined economy with a fluctuary to try to land the fluctuations better than we've done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. At first glance, I thought it was relatively dry, but it's very interesting from our policy discussion, what we are going to do with financial policy. This is shown in the questions of the senator to the highest degree. Secretary of finance that policy puts emphasis on overall living and debt, but financialism must involve so many other things. When making peace with your new government contract, even if you have to respect the Supreme Court, you may have to do so. To the pity that he was relatively new to the Ministry when policy was submitted at the council, a minister asks himself why it was not possible to take at least the opening words from the Constitution and put them in this document. They highlight balance and vision, that living in Iceland should be desirable, that is, human rights, equal opportunities, diversity, freedom and responsibility, and to contribute to the development of community, transport, health and education systems, and vigorous and competitive business life for citizens all over the country. That must be our primary objective, what we are going to do by making sure that we have the money left over. On the other hand, when you read through financial policy, you feel that it is more focused on more living than on how we are going to get it out. I also want to reiterate that it did not appear in the minister's answers, and hopefully he can improve when he comes here, how this figure is given, 41.5%, that the total cost of the government will not exceed that of gross domestic product over the period. Where did that come from? Based on OECD data, despite our status, we already have a lower total budget than all the Norwegian countries. not with an army. [[The president calls.]] I would like the answer to where that number comes from, that it is not taken out of nothing, but that it has some thought behind it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u37	Madam President. The laws on government finance are about responsible government and vision, responsible government of government, that we try to look a little forward to what Iceland and I are not used to doing. Like the changes that the law involves, we may need to develop the habit of using it. The value of sustainableity, caution, stability, firmness and transparency that should be passed through financial policy, financial programmes, and then the budget itself are very important. The government financial laws call for a great change, whether by the council or by us at the council. The role has been changed, and there may be some small obstacles to take when we take our first steps, and I'm challenging the highest. Ministers to get on their feet when the numbers start to arrive, when people start to say, "It's impossible, we have to go back to old times, it's not gonna work. We need to get over the deer and keep our eyes on the goal. What is it? Yes, better government management, professional discussion, professional work, and the rich role of the Senate. A financial committee also needs to develop into an increasing role, a surveillance role. The discussion was made about smaller parties. On one occasion, some of them had access to financial committees and members of the body of elders. They are unhappy with the change, disappointed by those who had easy access to members of the council. There are various traps that we must not fall back into, but we must find this good costume so that our smaller members are not left out. [[The president calls.]] But we're supposed to place it in a professional process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u38	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers and those who have participated in the discussion. It's been very useful. I agree that policy has come first to be visible as an economy device. But I think it's very important that we can adjust our policy to the proposed strategy. The course is, of course, long - term, and then a plan is within every year, but to keep a general view of how this will work out together, I feel that it is too long. I also feel that we have too little time to discuss the matter. The policy presented by this document is the largest case in every government at any given time. She'll take it at the main size of the maintenance phase, like the highest level. A minister said, but it doesn't change that I still believe that when we discuss financial matters, they need to be measured closer to each other. Regarding the GDP and the general public reading of this, I have to say that since I first arrived at the 2004 Parliament, the Hall of Congress was always emptied when it began talking about financial or financial matters. It still sticks, and now when we are about to take on increased discipline and financial maintenance, it is important that as many as possible understand the issues involved. That's what we need numbers too. I think we can put them out of our minds by saying in what way we decide to make them comparable between years of age. True, the council and the committee have an important monitoring role, and a change of mind is needed in many areas. I agree with that. But I'm concerned about the smaller sides, and we have to have it taken out, for the country where I come from is saying very much, and not just in my district, that it doesn't come well in the pot distributions that have now been increased in the plots. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what has been said here, we would have needed much more time, and we would have needed, in effect, three talks in a row to make a great deal of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u39	A respectable president. I find it interesting who is interested in these discussions, that's why. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson and the practical housewives who are in large numbers here. So it is vital that we talk about it. I see there's been an increase in the councilroom as soon as I said so. [[Take it up in the side room.]] This is most likely the most important subject of the ideal season. This is where we mark our policy, set the box, and mark it well, once the frame is set, this policy has become Generalis, and we will act in harmony with it. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir who's encouraged to get up. I will certainly try to do that. I'll tell you what. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir that this is certainly the government's motto, and it is clearly evident in this policy, i.e. steady state and vision. Looking ahead to five years of age, we have much stability as our primary goal in financial policy. There was no clear answer in policy. I disagree that this needs to be a dry discussion. I think it's a lot of fun. Actually, I'm just a little different than most people are. But this should be taken into consideration. I don't think it's any wonder if there's any problems. We're learning this and we're going through it for the first time. But I want to agree with them. Council members who have stressed the surveillance role and would like to remind them that in accordance with these laws on finance Ministers, they regularly report policy development reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u40	A respectable president. I've asked you a question to the highest level. The Minister of Justice on foreign exoneration for abduction in Iceland. I think we can say that almost every year we find news about the misfortunes of Icelandic youths who become aware of crime in distant lands, especially drug - related activities. The situation in prisons in those countries is often frightening, serious human rights violations in these overcrowded, totally lethal prisons. Recently, The Guardian of Brazil's Brazilian prisons discussed terrible conditions, where there would have been a constant conflict within the walls of prisons that would have led to horrible massacres. These are circumstances that we here in Iceland cannot possibly imagine or grasp. Some might say that those who commit a crime should take their punishment, but I hope to the highest. Minister agrees with me that it is very important to consider that the human rights of all citizens of the Icelandic state, including those who make mistakes and break laws. Also, it seems common to be not in the countries where conditions are the worst and where human rights are trampled on. It's valid, e.g. about Brazil In the request for ex-sential and prisoner transport agreements to the former secretary of state from the highest level. A former senator, Ánar Össur's Skarphéðinsson, last year, found that certain legal conditions were met by international cooperation in full justice, satisfying a so-called legal decision from a foreign court in Iceland, despite the absence of a payment agreement. However, both countries have to agree with and decide on the application of this legal authority in the hands of the Minister who will transfer judges under the Precinct on the switch to administrative matters in the Iceland Board of Directors. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice to see if there is any special expedite or prisoner transport agreement on the country. And whether the Minister has developed a policy or a vision of the expansive expansion of Icelandic prisoners to the detriment of Iceland, although there is no special expedite or prisoner transport agreement with that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u41	A respectable president. It is as if someone in question suggested that the law is in force in this area. 56/1993, on the international cooperation of full penalties, which were filled with the international accord of Iceland, i.e. The European Parliament's agreement on transport of prisoners from 1983, and the subsequent agreement with it, as well as the European Council's contract on the international value of penalties from 1970. It is proper to assume that the members of this contract are 64 countries. And there are a lot of countries outside Europe, including certain countries of South America involved in these contracts, not Brazil, which is specifically mentioned in the inquiry. So these are treaties that provide the basis for the transfer of foreign sentences between a number of countries, both within Europe and outside. Besides, Iceland has never made a two - sided agreement on the ultimate criminal rights of a foreign country. Rather, it's based on these international contracts and the legal legislation found in Icelandic law in that topic. It is just right to make a decision in Article 3. The law of the law is permitted to decide when specific reasons recommend the completion of a decision in a country made by an Icelandic citizen or by a person living on this land or by another court's decision in another country. It should be noted, however, that such transfer can only be with the approval of both states and, of course, with the approval of the prisoner. A two-sided agreement with another State on the transfer of full sentences cannot be made without consultation with the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the affairs of prisoners and the transfer of convicted ones. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, there has been no two - sided agreement made with Brazil or any other country for the transfer of full sentences. The Department of Internal Affairs is aware that representatives of the Washington embassy of Iceland dealt with the representative of the U.S. government of Brazil's Washington embassy on the license to pay for the transfer of the full legal punishment that has been made special in Brazil over Icelandic citizens. It should be noted that other North countries have not made a prisoner transport agreement with Brazil and that they do not intend to make such a deal soon. Yet, Norwegians have negotiated individual prisoners in specific matters. At this point, I think it is more successful to apply that particular law in Article 3. Which I tore up earlier, i.e. when specifically indicated, e.g. a special concept of charity, especially with reference to the young age of the Icelandic citizen, I believe that it is more successful to use the legal authority to search for the possibility of a prisoner's transfer to Iceland. Such transfers to the best foreign sentences, however, cannot be done unless both countries agree. However, because it was asked whether there was a particular policy in these matters, it has been done in a formal manner, even though the case has been reviewed from time to time, both in the Ministry of State and in the Ministry of Justice, as well as in the State Department of State. Of course, there are many viewpoints that need to be kept in mind. Two-sided contracts, of course, are meant to be two-sided. However, people have felt that they are not likely to, for example. Brazilian prisoners in this country would wish to serve judgments in Brazil, and the state may not want to receive the prisoners. This is one view that needs to be kept in mind and in view of the potential and scope of the Icelandic judiciary system for the service of both foreign citizens and Icelandic citizens who may have committed crimes abroad and may have some of the wide range of links to international crime, which the Icelandic judiciary system may not have much experience. Of course, this will be considered. On the other hand, I think it's 3rd. The law allows full space to intervene in isolated cases in terms of humanitarianities and particularly in the case of young offenders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for bringing up this important subject. I think it's important, like a whale. A senator, to think beyond the box, and to focus especially on countries where there is a danger that the basic human rights of the Icelandic citizen may be trampled on. So I want to direct my comment to the highest. Minister of Justice, whether or not she is aware of how many prisoners are in the prisons of countries where there is no expeditation agreement and how they are handled. Similarly, I am curious about the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State in these matters. Do they have some kind of working team? Is there any particular cooperation to ensure that the prisoners in countries where treaties are not available will receive assistance from the State Department of State and may also cooperate with the Ministry of Justice to bring them home?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u43	President. I appreciate this discussion. It's very necessary. I just want to draw attention to the fact that during the last term Iceland was signed and legally validated by a European directive designed to be arrested and delivered by men to and from Iceland for criminal acts on the basis of a warrant for arrest. This was the matter of Congress No. 463. Piratar and I criticized it because it seems that there's little awareness of what this population is. This means that the Icelandic citizen can be handed over to Europe, not just the northern countries as he has been before. I wanted to ask if this would have been a reason to explore ways of making negotiations between countries. Because prisons in Brazil are not the only things that are disgusting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u44	A respectable president. I thank the Minister very much for her comments and for others who have participated in the discussion. It is good to know that the Minister believes that the present legal environment will provide her with sufficient authority in her opinion to promote cases that arise in violation of the human rights of the Icelandic people and even in grave danger to their lives. However, I would like to point out that in an inquiry directed to the then secretary of state, preparation would be made for a contract against Brazil in particular. However, it is stated in the minister's answer that it counts, pointing them to the rest of the northern countries, that it did not make such a deal. And that is because it is difficult to predict that such a contract could, in effect, be two - sided. I also believe that in response to the minister's words, a certain vision was given, and a focus on how she wants to approach unique matters, referring specifically to her young age and circumstances that need to be evaluated at one time. As shown in the case of what? Jónsdóttir Not only are we talking about one country but there are many countries in which circumstances may arise in such a way that such individuals are simply in a terrible situation. So I strongly want to encourage the Minister to continue working on these matters, on the foreign expansion of foreign prisoners to serve here in Iceland, to consider setting up a policy of how they take care of this law, and I also accept the importance of good cooperation between foreign service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-06-25.u45	A respectable president. Yes, it is a good cooperation, of course, between the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Justice on these matters. I don't have numbers over how many Icelandic citizens sit, for example. To this day in prisons in countries, let us call which are not members of a European Parliament agreement. However, there are probably one or five cases per year involved in the implementation of prisoners from countries involved in the European Convention. That's how it goes. Of course, there is no need for the Icelandic government to provide any information about Icelanders in foreign prisons. So it may be in the heel whether it will happen. When that happens, however, it is usually a request for some assistance because of equipment in the State, equipment in prisons. It can also be noted that the issues that have developed and involved e.g. Brazil, then there has been some success in dealing with prison authorities in that country. Although this may not have led to the forwarding of the prisoners, there are other ways to ensure that an Icelandic citizen enjoys human rights and appropriate prison equipment, whether in Brazil or elsewhere. That's exactly what we need to pay attention to. Of course, we will respond to every request and inquiry that this requires and will continue. Thank you for a very pleasant discussion about this. No doubt these matters will be considered, at least in the Ministry of Justice, so I'll just answer for that, but certainly also in the Ministry of State as necessary.
