ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u1	At a meeting in Iceland at the Western Council earlier today, Egilsdóttir Eelsdóttir was elected vice president, and at a meeting of the Council of Iceland at the Council of Northern Iceland, vice president was elected by Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u2	The Prime Minister's report on treatment and implementation of Council 2016 has been submitted and is now scheduled for management and monitoring committees for discussion according to 8 mg. 45. g. Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u3	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 29, 2017, or later, if necessary, to January 22, 2018. Mr. President. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u4	A respectable president. I vote in this case by not seriously paying votes in line with my other votes in these matters during the recent councils, with the same vote as I have also made for the previous council. A General Assembly is legalizing civil rights. Of course, that authority will not be taken from the General Assembly. It is natural, and the Allied council is supposed to be able to provide citizens' rights by law. However, it has to be known that I have enough logic. I do not consider them to be in accordance with the administrative or best - chosen transparency, but I consider them to be the payment of the council as it has been in the past few years. I have previously proclaimed a change in the civil rights law and hope to have an opportunity to introduce it here at the spring council. I think it's better to see that in any way in the administration. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I'd like to wish all the individuals here to be congratulated on the citizenship along with the more than 500 people who have been granted citizenship this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u5	Mr. President. There's a hole in the sound of hearing the highest. Minister of Justice will discuss that there will be more administrative procedures here for this council. It's kind of ridiculous. But just to calm down a little bit. The Court's office of Justice gave these individuals the commission to work professionally on this matter. The civil rights service through the council is a well-founded decision. It's not a rule of government. They apply, however, to the minister's office, which should see fit to vote with a proposal it is to congratulate the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u6	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for Congress resolution of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdiction in 2017. The Commission has discussed the case, but with the proposal, General's warrants have been sought to confirm the Iceland Convention and the Faeroe Islands on Fishing in the United States in 2017. The Treaty says that in 2017, at the annual meeting of European legislation and agricultural ministers of Iceland and the Marine Department of the Faeroe Islands held in the Faeroe Islands in December, there has been no agreement on the fishing warrants of the Fragsies in Icelandic jurisdiction and on mutual access to the jurisdiction of the state due to coalism and the Norwegian European Siled in 2018. Iceland has made a humble agreement, but the Faeroe Islands demand additional clearances, as well as requiring that all restrictions on the land of hairys for agricultural work in the Faeroe Islands be removed. So without agreement with Faeroe Islands, Icelandic ships are not allowed to hunt on carbons and Norwegian-islen fjords within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands in 2018. Therefore, the proposal suggests that in the Icelandic jurisdiction of the 2017/018 furturbing industry, fishing warrants are also allowed for fishing on the coal and Norwegian-islentic documents within the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Islands in 2018. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Signed by this paper, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Jánddor Valdimarsson, Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, Roasak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdótir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gógnsótir, and Smári Mccarthy. Sæland Gorand, an officer of the hearing agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u7	Honorable generals. The final meeting of the General Assembly is this year. The entire organization has been in a very unusual way, and the time we have had to complete the budget and other important matters for the years was very short. However, during the two weeks we've had our work done, the Generals have managed to complete a lot of work, and it's my feeling that the quality has been there as much as possible. Of course, the success would have been accomplished only before and because of the good cooperation that has marked the last few days' Senate work, so I'm not talking about today. May they be promising next year on the Senate work. An effective compromise has also demonstrated the strength of the Generals and its ability to care for its responsibilities. I put it this year, when the Council had finished work before Christmas, even after a lot of work in a short time and in unconventional circumstances, that the Council would have passed the test. I believe the General has also done so now and with quite an excellent score. For that at the U.S.R., all commendation was due. Then it is proper and obliged to mention the priceless contribution made by our capable members in the committee field, in document processing, in a council meeting office, in a Senate hearing, and in the General Support Board, to this conclusion. It is a good thing that a small amount of space depends on this round, even as it does on the members of Congress itself. The General will meet again for a meeting on Monday, January 22, but it is assumed that the committee will ever begin any earlier, i.e. Tuesday, January 16th. I want to finally move everybody's ass. The delegates, the office manager, and the staff of the Alleglers have the best wishes for a joyful new year, and they thank me for my enjoyable cooperation in the year that is about to come to an end. Anyone who has a long journey home, I wish we could all meet together in a whole new year. I sent my best New Year's Eve to the Continentals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-12-30-13.u8	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 148th, from December 29, 2017 or later, if necessary, to January 22, 2018. All units, December 28th, 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that the Council is postponed by the 148th legis. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the generals and the staff of the Generals for a good cooperation with unusual circumstances at the council. Thank you so much for the amount of work that has been done here in a few days and can't wait to see you all again in a new year.
