ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u1	The President has received a program proposal, as follows: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st General penalties (reflected decrepit), etc., 111 cases, flm. Bjarni Benediktsson, F., 1st. 2. It's an election for the Council, etc., Case 112, flm. Government and monitoring committee 1st. 3. Foreign law, etc., 113th case, flm. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, O.C., 1st. 4. Government regulations, etc., 107th case, flm. Birgitta Jónsdóttir We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, write down. The members of Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Leví Gunnarsson, Eva Baldursdóttir Bárlsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Smári Mccarthy, Logi Einarsson, Brjánsson S. Bránsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Brynjólfsson's daughter, Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Avjörnótir, Harðardóttir G.. A vote for the proposal is now made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u2	Madam President. It's very simple. That means that we are preparing for the council whether it will agree to put on the program a meeting of Pirata's bill, which is, in fact, that in the future, there will be a political adjustment under the nation. That's what we're asking for. If we have the case planned today or before the end of the council, we could vote for it, finish it, and then the next election can agree, and we can immediately change the constitution, such as taking out the constitution of the regulations of honesty. You can't finish off your business and wipe out the law unless you do it in a constitution. We can start installing some serious transparency regulations in the constitution. We can do this slowly and calmly rather than wait four years again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u3	Madam President. Yesterday I suggested this at a meeting of the presidents of the classes, hoping that a new constitution could be joined, a proposal for comparable regulations, and what was in force in the years 2013◯2017, i.e. could be accepted by the old method, but an additional provision would be made to agree to the Constitution with an increased proportion at the Council and to the threshold that 25% of voters would lend them their vote in a national law. This proposal is based on a set of requirements here, but with a higher inclusion threshold at that time, i.e. 40% of the threshold involved in national pay. It was an attempt to share matters, to create an increasing solidarity on the Constitution, and all classes at the council unless the Independence Party accepted a very positive suggestion. It was my hope that we could have agreed on this compromise and thus gained an added solidarity on future constitutions. We didn't get it. Therefore, our left - green estimate is that it is best to complete the terms of the program published and that the nation will have the opportunity to renew their commission to members of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u4	Respectably the General. In the bright future, we will wholeheartedly agree on the need for improvement in the constitution, and we will agree that this change should be made in order to make it easier. However, we have very open eyes, especially after the conversations of the classes last week, that we are in the last record, if not the last centimeters, in this council. It has been threatened that there will be a debate to prevent anything from coming through if this motion is considered. We believe it is important that the laws of the law be taken away from the law and that the laws of foreigners will be changed, including the law on foreigners. to cover the affairs of young children who have won the hearts and minds of all of us, both at the council and among the nation. We feel that this is so important that it is not dangerous for this council to be completed without properly finishing that matter. However, we feel that it is very important for the next council to immediately begin a review of the Constitution and to reevaluate the Parliament so that smaller things cannot be prevented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u5	V.E.G. President. The proposed day - to - day proposal assumes that a new matter will be scheduled, and this will be done before the council hearing. The situation, of course, is that there is no time for an election. It is a contract to complete a Senate hearing, and when a new matter is thrown in this way, all such plans fall apart. This is a matter that if the program was to be held, it would need to be handled, discussed, and examined. Pirat's case assumes that governmental changes can be provided by national law without any barriers, either in Congress or in national legal requirements. Materially, too, the situation is so completely unacceptable on my part. In fact, I don't think it would be a good idea if we went into a change, even if it was just a matter of change in the Constitution, without any discussion, without being seen to the end of it, on the day that the plan is to complete Congress. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u6	President. We offered to make a suggestion to the left green. They didn't want them. This was shown in this meeting. We've made a similar suggestion, and we're very open to change the motion exactly as a firm left green sounds, if that's what it's like. We can offer exactly as was approved here in 2013 except for the 40% threshold considered by the Venetian Committee. We are open to all possible means to make sure that here we can make the Constitution changes to the nation by either the greater part of the council or the greater part of the council. That's not what it's about. It's a premium. What this is about is that the Independence Party is about to complete its conquest. Independence refuses to allow the case on a vote so that we can see what the real will of the Allegorium is. On the other hand, they are ready to set aside temporary regulations so that their children will not be sent abroad. But they disagreed, but they were ready to allow it to be part of the program. On the other hand, they are ready if this case is taken up here to hold the council hostage and threaten that this case will not be resolved if this is taken care of. What a board of directors. [[The president calls.]] What arrogance and hypocrisy and wickedness. I don't have a word for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u7	A respectable president. Over a year, two governments have been killed because the public did not like government practices. Governments have far too little confidence, and only one fifth of voters trust the General. It is essential that the Council establish a better relationship with the nation and a vital and wise step toward returning the public to work on a new constitution. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Extensive support was given in the Nationalitre Board and polls on the proposals of a management body, which should form the basis for a new constitution and is urgent for the program. We politicians must not hold the case hostage. We must not fear the nation. Socialism, general knowledge levels, and new technology are now very different from when we received the old constitution and new circumstances directly require that we adopt new practices. If we don't develop our democracy to the level of time, the rate of election participation in the public will continue to decrease and will continue to increase between Congress and nation. I refuse to believe that men want to use children as traders in action. [[The president calls.]] That is why I support this program proposal. It must not happen that we cast this matter into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u8	V.E.G. President. It's a big, big thing that we candidates don't think can be overrun on running or in a hurry. That is why we are opposed to this program program. We're members of a concluded contract we're going to make. Of course, we are ready for an ongoing interview and cooperation in changing the constitution, but we need to be good at what we do and work hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u9	Madam President. A number of groups found out which subjects should be concluded. It was not all that we would have chosen for restoration. It included such issues as the Constitution, one of those to whom we were open to discuss. I was a personal member of this agreement. We wanted to settle down with other councils. In this matter, some members of the Parliament will sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u10	Madam President. When I saw the bill that the program proposal is about, I wondered if the movers had forgotten the last six years because this is the dust of the Council of Government's proposal since 2011. Since then, many things have happened. The management board has, e.g. Cut off 2 mg. Fortunately, this is not followed by the suggestion, for it was passed before the nation. [[Up front.]] Then why are other indications of the management and monitoring committee at that time such as having someone involved in the barrier? It doesn't have to be 50% like a dog. 1st Member of this case proposed a 141.1 legislation. Neither does it have to be 40%, as did the end of 2013. This is no simple matter that needs to be completed quickly. This was also shown in the 2013 hearings. At that time, all agents in the greater part of the administration and monitoring committee, including representatives of the United States Group, including representatives of the great party as fierce as possible. þm. Jón's daughter Birgitta back then, whatever his name was again, agreed that the change would be difficult, at least difficult to make, but difficult enough to change because the Constitution protects the city's rights for more violence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, this needs to be done carefully and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u11	The president would kindly direct them to members of the council to observe the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u12	Madam President. Here we have a historic opportunity to give the nation a sovereignty and a right to the rules of conduct that would be left behind by members of the Parliament and ministers in their national service, the actual community covenant. Everybody's here to see what's left of it. In order to set rules for us, it is a historic opportunity to follow their conscience and to choose the right of the nation. I urge all members of Congress not to compromise their threats. Sit prime minister, Barry the Bjarni of Benediktsson, but now he stands with the nation. If not us, then who? If not now, when? Your responsibility is what you're responsible for. Councilmen, your conscience is yours, and the time for following it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u13	A respectable president. 48th. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and the Council of Government Proclamation states: ▪ Councilmen are only bound to their convictions and have no rules from their voters. You might add:•None of the rules you use from your classes.•No rules from yours. Here we act according to our convictions, according to our conscience. Stop hiding behind some kind of behind-country veil in prehuman rooms. You, each one of you, the senators, have access to this vote next to you. You can give your opinion on this matter. Do you really have a conscience to say to the people: "No, you can't vote for a political change, just us? Is that really the message you want to send out?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u14	A respectable president. The program held for this meeting is the conclusion of the conversation between the presidents of all classes. I strongly object that it is directed against me that the result is aggressively threatened by threats, by means of some kind of effort to use people in sensitive positions, trustrs, or others who trade at the end of the council. I'm going to tell all these comments to the Father House. The independence party is in no position to go to the council. We're just a group of members like the rest of the council here. We support the program here as a result of the conversation of all classes. All these accusations are inexhaustible attacks during an election that would have really not been a good blow for many meetings at the General Assembly for the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u15	Madam President. It is true, of course, that we are offering the proposal as it comes from the bill of the Council of Government, because the people had agreed to it, except for this law, which means that the assembly can pass the nation because it is not democratic. As we mentioned at the meeting yesterday, we are, of course, open to install thresholds, insert democratic barriers. According to the Venice Committee, the 2013 proposal was incorrigibly incompetent, and it was temporary. The proposal we are now making for the council is democratic, and we are ready to put the democratic barriers so that the nation can make a lasting change, can be a permanent part in changing its constitution. But look what we are facing today. If we don't begin today to change the management system slowly and safely, which accepts this proposal means that we can do, and we always have to wait for elections, wait and wait and wait, and may be postponed and postponed, we face the fact that the national expectations are not fulfilled, are facing the collapse of governments, and explode, face political instability. That's what we're facing if we don't change the constitution and the management system according to the country's expectations. [[The president calls.]] Then governments will explode and fall. This leads to political instability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u16	Madam President. Let us not overdo the matter. It's very simple. It's about a change in the Constitution being able to pass through the council without having to interrupt a council and then go into the hands of the people to vote for them. It's so simple. If there is something in the media to define what the senators say, there is more to this at the council. But for some reason, when one company brings up any threats to the language, everyone in their shoes will tremble and nobody will dare do anything. We have more parts. Is it really so that the Independence Party operates everything in here? If the Independence Party doesn't agree with the case, can't we drive it through? I'm just asking you to vote according to your own convictions. We're not even talking about voting on this change right now, we're talking about putting this on a program for a democratic discussion. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u17	Madam President. Here we will discuss some moderate adjustments on the program. We are not insisting that the end be done necessarily, for it is for each individual to decide for himself. This, however, is a modest motion on matters that should, of course, be treated by the council. Then we can come to some thresholds, as some have already spoken. And the credibility of the council is indeed at stake. If we cannot take this unique matter for a short time at the end of the council, where will we stand? I even say that the future is at stake, for if the Independence Party with its third votes can determine everything about what will be worked out and how are we simply in position that the future will be postponed another four years, again. It's just enough of this. We must take advantage of this opportunity to welcome the future, to do what is right, and to put this change to the fore. [[The president calls.]] For to be honest, the vote we are about to enter is now interpreted, it will be interpreted in some way. It's the kind of person to evaluate how it comes out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u18	A respectable president. The future will be on the program for elections on October 28th. There the nation has the opportunity to vote for people who want to get back to work on the general review of the Constitution. But the most important thing we face today when the election was suddenly announced as an election is a flight of children. The change we are now making in foreign law is sufficient to control the situation of these children. There were children waiting for humanity, who were waiting for justice. A arrangement to finish it is an agreement that's worth something. That's a deal we're on forge at the VG party. It's my conviction, and it's my conscience that tells me not to go on an adventure campaign where children's positions of flight are below. It was our food. Therefore, the VG party suggests the program of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u19	A respectable president. I have much to say about it. Councilmen of Pirata, and also with what? paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson of the United States, which is behind this program. I think your mind is good. The suggestion is well - thought - out. The situation is that members of Congress have discussed and agreed on their conclusions. In the bright future, we do not have a conscience to jeopardize the well - being of family members here seeking refuge. We're in a hurry. That's what we're dealing with today. We know what happens if we don't. We know that, we who work in this room. Then the discussion breaks down and begins to revolve around something else. We need to deal with children's affairs while they're on the run. That is what we want in the bright future today. We would like to respond to the matter of revulsion and confusion. [[The president calls.]] That's why we don't pay our vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u20	Madam President. I must say that the first time I heard of Pirata's program proposal, I felt rather positive about that idea. I'm sure it's a matter of discussing the constitution like anything else. Then I thought I'd discuss a suggestion to be accepted by six members of the council. The problem is, the suggestion is too far away from what is considered good in my opinion. Three things are mostly missing, which I will mention: First of all, there is a threshold lacking, which is, in my opinion, not an insoluble factor at all. Second, more part is missing at the council. [[Up front.]] Third, which is as important, is given too short a time in the motion from the motion offered until a vote is made. I would have liked to see that length of time, at least For one year. In the current suggestion, there is far too much danger that dominantly more parts of this article will be used to play out some popfly and make them a politicalized language. I think the mind behind the motion is good, but I think the dangers in it are too great. [[The president calls.]] I will not vote with this program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u21	Madam President. Trust in the Council is minimal. I pray to them why. Senators who talk about us doing this right here in the next term, thinking about their business. You see, this has been promised before, and it is being betrayed again now. Here we simply suggest a simple change in how the nation can enjoy a change in constitution, their community covenants. It is easy to reach a conclusion, and many had come to a conclusion as to what sort of barriers would be desirable for this matter to go through. But the groups sitting here were not prepared to fight for this. If they are willing to fight with us for having this matter on the program, of course we will discuss how we fully secure a democratic procedure surrounding this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u22	President. It's good to know that the Independence Party is not in charge of the council. Rather, it's up to us to take our votes here. We suggest that nothing more complex is going on here, and I would like to see a panel before asking: "What is the future of the children? What is the future of the children in doubt? We planned a regular change, since this part would be our last item on the program. Then I'd have finished all the rest. I'd appreciate it if I did. An environmental minister answered the question about the future of what children would be in danger of doing so. This is where we're talking about a four-year re-examination date, okay? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. Is it really not possible to do both? What's so complicated about it? Really. We can save both the children and change the constitution. It's not that complicated. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u23	V.E.G. President. I wonder if there's a lot of people out there. Congress officials have missed that a few days ago the government exploded, the council was breached, and they announced an election. We are in a position where we have just over four weeks of total election elections. In fact, I find it completely amazing that men think of taking politics into them during the last day of the council, so far taking on it as if there's no problem in this situation. [[Up front.]] I don't think that's right. [[Up front.]] I don't think it's a good idea for men to think that it's a failure to complete the Senate process of bringing in the Constitution a few weeks before election. I don't think that's right. Since the 2013 event was the rest of it, it is not comparable. Actually, I didn't like that case, but it's another story. This is worse, though. It's obvious that this is a big need to discuss the Constitution, but, unfortunately, it's just been interrupted and elected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u24	President. Actually, all the members of the council in this room are going to make an option for the next election. They are doing professional interviews with the nation and ask the people to trust them to keep their interests in check. Those of you who are asking for it will not trust the nation for changing the constitution. What hypocrisy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u25	Madam President. Children are often spoken of here, perhaps the most precious possession all of us have. At the beginning of the council, the United States seized two other classes of an emergency and gave a bill to stop two girls and their families from leaving the country. It was the emergency bread. Of course, things should be solved in a general way, so it happened that the matter would take place that perhaps more children will come to the rescue. However, the General Assembly will then need to establish general, humanitarian guidelines. We would never have negotiated anything, and we would never have done anything that would have put these children at risk. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I have no faith that any member of the Independence Party had ever prevented such a matter from coming through. I'm not going to. Therefore, there is no rule that we will accept this matter and take positive action. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u26	Madam President. There's a couple of them. The members of Congress expressed concern that if this proposal is approved, it will jeopardize the important bill that all agree on and bring back to life for these children. So it was a pleasure to hear that it was the highest. The prime minister was to cross the line for having ever threatened a filibuster or other consequences of accepting this bill. I don't understand that any man in this room has any fear that there will be a filibuster first. The prime minister has promised that he will not. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u27	A respectable president. The meeting effect last night. Piranus and the Conspira don't agree, but we won't rock the boat. Of course, we will let the originals pass through it. The program is therefore threatened only because it is intended to add a change in the constitution. This is not what we're putting refugees at risk. We don't have to have any technical hairpieces. Let's hop on this job and be quick. Pirats and I are open to change. Let's do this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u28	A respectable president. I say yes. Of course, the people are to vote for their communion covenant. It is not a matter of mere senators. The people themselves should be able to say yes or no to what comes from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u29	Madam President. I say yes, so that we can begin to ensure that the country's approach to change immediately after the election, that the nation has the chance to have access to the Constitution itself, that if the General approval of the Constitutions, they are referred to as national law. Then we can change things that need to be changed. When people's expectations change, as they have been about the information technology revolution, the social media, they want to get more information on the issues they face and at least find out how decisions are made. This is what summer was all about. People wanted to come to their decisions, at least to learn how to make decisions. We are faced with the fact that people are not listened to unless they are loud. Then people will just keep loud if we don't change the system. Then governments will continue to explode, fall. This leads to political instability. And then there's a collapse, like the highest. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson has already said that it is likely to come, and most know it. [[The president calls.]] And in the Fall - Who, then, will come to power? Is it possible, then, that they will be responsible for some Populists who don't put civil rights on the tip like Pirantar? Is this likely to reach the power of people who overthrow the system? We need to go to the Constitution as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] This is our chance to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u30	Madam President. Of course, I'm saying yes to the disparaging suggestion that we will be allowed to discuss matters here. Of course I'll say yes. However, I find that it is rather unmistakably clear how there has been a new feature at the council that seems to violate future changes. This certainly surprises me. [[Top of it: not right.]] I'm very disappointed in this. But there it is. At least now we've seen where there are barriers between progressive classes and past. [[Top of it: not right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u31	Madam President. Now it seems that much of this assembly was entrusted to the Icelandic nation for bringing about their Community covenant, that our future will be settled between Congress and nation. I experience a reimbursement, déjà vu, from the time that the greater part of this council voted for an illegal vote by the then Court of Justice, with a bitter taste in the mouth, contrary to its own convictions. Then it was my biggest disappointment in this work. My heart hurts now because my disappointments have never been larger.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u32	Madam President. I am not standing here with a bitter taste in my mouth saying no to this suggestion. However, the votes here, particularly from the Pirata councils, show that there is a natural hope of discussing this matter with some balance while people are in the middle of a re-election campaign. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There is no way to discuss the change in constitution while people focus on something else. Here we are, yes, surely, more than a member of the Parliament's supporters, to get a new constitution based on a proposal of administration, and I'm asking just the respectable senators of Pirata to stop horseing and remember that we're here together on this project. And if we trust in the nation to choose the reforms of October 28th, we will now be able to reach or do not make any difference. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u33	A respectable president. I refuse all accusations of wickedness and hypocrisy and explanations of what this no means. My no does not mean that I don't think that the nation should have some sort of change in constitution. I believe there needs to be a much greater separation between the legislature and the Constitution. I'm here to say that changing the constitution requires careful action. This need to be taken into account, both for the review and for the management of a committee. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u34	The reason we made this issue last part of the program was that we would not stand in the way of the important things that are still mere washing of cats, since there are not lasting changes we are going to make here, e.g. The law of honesty. It's only half. The rest is that the Constitution can be changed, which is the first law to be changed. If we took this proposal into the committee and then turned it over to the motion of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, we have a case that is a vast majority of the council members agree on, and the Independence Party accepted at the time, though with a higher threshold of involvement. [[Up front.]] The majority of violence is now being talked about. If we wanted to handle this matter that has been over and over in the council, we would settle it. They just don't want to. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u35	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill delivered by the directors of all classes at the General Assembly. This is a bill for the legal adjustment of public penal law, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, and with particular growth rate. The bill was originally made up at the Ministry of Justice, which has been since spring for a complete review of the arrangement of integrity. These plans for a full reexamination of the arrangement depend on reviewing and, depending on incidents, to eliminate the definitions of the law on which the offenses of public opinion are flagrant and to bring in to ruin a reputation, as set out in Article 4 and 5. track No. 24/2000, for elections to the Generals, and also repeal in the general penalties of justice. Instead, it would be recommended in the relevant legal code in which a criminal career will lead to the loss of certain civil rights, such as votes, office gangs, or certain legal rights. In this way, may it be reasonable to consider the differences in interests involving different jobs and rights. At the same time, it will be completely turned aside that governments make decisions about honesty. A respectable president. I'm going to refer to a rather detailed paper that follows the bill, but I'm going to use my speech just to tap a big one. I would like to continue talking about the necessary overall reviews that are not under attack on this step of the matter. She's at the Ministry of Justice. Transporters believe that it is important for proposals to receive a comprehensive democratic coverage, and then, in time, a conquistador treatment at the General Assembly. Thus, in the process of elections, however, time will not be won to complete such treatment, such preparation. So the bill suggests that we take the first step toward an overall review. In this way we are only suggesting that the work being done here will be stopped for decades, i.e. ... thatthe administrationoftheaggressionofthe administration of government is under the authority of Article 85. General penalties, No. 19/1940. If the bill is the law, as previously stated, work on a total reexamination will be carried out and the Council will soon agree to a new law in which opinions are taken to study with the bill. As the matter has been worked so far, they have seen the necessary work to be done as a two - step attack. In that sense, we are suggesting that the first stage be completed. The overall review of the entire Law code, and note where an unspotted reputation can be found as a condition for civil rights, will be the second stage. I would even want to add to the fact that it is unlikely that there will be some time later that people would want to go to the third stage, wondering if there is any basis for staying beyond the rights that so far has not required an unspotted reputation and ask: Well, since we have many laws that require men not to commit crimes to laws, so that certain punishments have been judged, it is important that there be equal justice between professions, between professions, between rights. It is easy in itself to think of a number of examples that would make it difficult for us to reason that we would not discuss if we were to make a decision on the whole of these cases. However, I have full insight that as matters have developed this year, and as we have in this discussion, our view of current laws is directed that in these two stages there is only a sort of firmness in this subject. I would like to draw special attention to a historical summary found in a paper with the bill and a discussion of Norwegian rights. It's, for example. It is of interest to note that in the 19th century, Sweden decommissioned its authority to take away civil rights. In Sweden, there is not a law of thoroughness in current penalties. In this context, there would be a number of legal and moral issues, the Constitutions of rights, personal rights, job rights, and such factors. No doubt it will be part of the general discussion. But at this point, we're taking a phase. Even if we are simply suggesting that the council take this first step, finish this first review phase, however, there are issues of opinion that are tried to deal with in chapter 4 of the report, on page 20. 4 and 5 on the bill. It adds to the conclusion that there is an opinion to make the adjustment proposed to the end if the Senate's stated goal is to move forward in further adjustments. It can be said that in a certain way the legality of this coming law will be adopted, depending on the fact that the General Assembly will be subject to the completion of the work, this overall review. This is discussed in chapter 4. Then, at the end of my speech, I want the bill to go to the General and Education Committee and get the relevant coverage, even if we expect the council to complete the work today. I don't think it's unrealistic because it's been taken care of for weeks. The Ministry is prepared to provide all the answers and to examine all the matters of opinion that may arise in this regard. As we have considered, the matter has been prepared for months, and a general review has been conducted so that I don't consider any myth in overcoming the matter as presented here. However, I feel that the council should not take lightly that there are certain administrative questions that humans need to take sides with. One of the consequences of completing this stage without a complete reexamination is the formation of a certain legal vacuum. I'm pointing, for example. To be elected are rights that have so far been protected by the arrangement that we are taking here for review and actually delinquency. In effect, the question remains, in what way can a person be restored to a perfect success when the arrangement to resurrect someone who is unspotted by his reputation has been removed from the penalties of the law. The question remains, How should this treatment be completed? The answer must come in what I would like to call the bandorm, which comes in the bandormins. I'm not going to start a long discussion about all the subjects presented there. I just wanted to mention in loose terms that I sometimes find it in general that it is underestimated how difficult a job it must go over each case and ask: "What manner of getting the rights below, whether there are legal rights or some other general rights, rights to take place in the management of partner members, etc.? It will be a challenge for the Council to consider all the questions raised by various other professions that have not yet been involved in this discussion. There I refer again to the issues of equality that must come to my attention. Other than that, I want to thank you for the excellent solidarity that has existed among the chief of the classes in this regard. I expect there can be wide agreement on the matter at the council after necessary committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u36	Madam President. The nature of this bill is a certain operation. It removes one of many tumours that were discovered after the relentless struggle between the fracturers and those who had advanced until the system finally responded. In this spirit, and in fact, because we take only one very specific feature of this enormous case, I'd like to ask the highest degree. Prime Minister: How does he see the need for a full reexamination to change the constitution so that this work can be completed, especially after this much discussion has been discovered that the term "resurrection " and the concept is no longer acceptable to the public's judgment? To be elected to the Generals, you must have an unspotted reputation. If we remove it without replacing anything else and without any change in constitution, we will be fully convinced of who is elected to the Council at the coming election. Finally: Before the council, a careful bill on a change in legal law was to ensure that those who sought legal rights were required to be entrusted with the vital role of law. In order to determine whether one class is being sifted out, there are only two professions that have specifically exalted a good name and an unscrupulous reputation in this context, that are lawyers and accountants. V.E.G. The role of an accountant and the role of an attorney in the community regarding the authority given to those classes is certainly different from that of those who often do not have hope. So, my two questions are, how's the highest? Ministers have the impression that this global review can be changed and implemented without a change in constitution? And why did he resist a legal adjustment?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u37	A respectable president. I'm running out of time to answer huge questions. First, it is no problem to define in election law when a person has returned to an unscrupulous reputation. We'll do it in elections. That doesn't require a change in the constitution. That should be obvious. Regarding whether the legal profession is somehow designed to have to be especially careful of those who do such work, I just have to protest. I don't think there's any evidence to make the legal profession something special. Nor should lawyers and accountants speak of just a number of other sensitive jobs if they want to do so. I can see in the future the need for lawyers, lawyers, accountants' laws, yes, both, but a lot of other classes. I'm not going to go out in the discussion that it would call. But I think it's in nature. There are so many people who have such delicate confidential work. We could talk about doctors. Where does this list really end? It will be extremely difficult for the council to do that work. But I'm going to say that the step here is important. On the bill asked about here, I made special comments that it had been arranged so that the Legal Society should give a review of whether it was right for lawyers to get their rights back. There, the Legal Society was to look for public opinion, to see if it was good for a new legal rights to be granted. [[The president calls.]] I just say for my part: It's a totally ridiculous idea, just as ridiculous as that courts should judge not only by law but also by public opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u38	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister may not have observed that there was a suggestion to remove the public opinion from these ecstatic points, and he was probably just a matter of concern. Nor have I claimed that lawyers are more cautious than other people. In the sense that we put them into practice now, there are attorneys and accountants. Certainly there is a difference in the nature of these two; the privilege and availability of attorneys in various aspects of society and facilities that the accountants have in no way, e.g. To a children's house, e.g. child protection data of any kind. There's a lot more to count on. So there is a difference. When there is a bill and everyone is ready for the compromise, I ask, "Why wasn't it willing to complete that case? " Public opinion? It was gone. I don't understand the premium. In this process, she leaves behind a complete guarantee of the civil rights of those who are now unable to restore their abilities and rely on these laws. It's just that way. In that light, I think it's worth asking. Whether it would have been a good idea to see at least that lawyers whose delinquency had some way of getting their legal rights back, since that would also have been the result of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u39	A respectable president. I just don't want to be carved around a case that's not on the schedule, and I've never been laid out in the General Assembly, and I've been surgingly prepared with the strict agreement that public opinion should be handled by law, which is completely indistinguishable that people have thought they had something to do with legalization in Iceland. [[It's been taken out.]] I think it would be closer to the senator's understanding of how she came up with the idea of making his suggestion that public opinion should be controlled by the services of civil rights. [[Foreground on: The Senator...]] Imagine that! Imagine how we are involved in this discussion when members of the Parliament offer a discussion at the General Assembly that public opinion should be considered when it comes to civil rights. We were there. I'm not gonna say anything. It's just a bill that's not on the agenda. That discussion will be taken in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history. I'd like to approach the matter out of a slight doubt. So, despite all that, in a single day, we are canceling many decades of work. Although this bill was certainly being built in the Ministry for some time, I saw it as a private senator first a few hours ago. Of course, in the image that the bill was presented to me as a general member of the Board of Public Education and Education Committee, it was to be followed by the part that was involved in how men could get their various civil rights back. But in this first phase, which is referred to as a step only one way, i.e. taking away human authority to regain certain rights. Men who received specific judgment on certain matters, perhaps now in prison could expect to return to their rights. But if the bill shows up in this way, it's more difficult for them to do so. Of course, there are laws that have to be changed, such as the Supreme Court. Prime Minister mentioned. But is it not clear from the fact that if we do not, we are at the top of ice on the Constitution and on the European Convention of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u41	A respectable president. Is it not possible to say that the development of this bill was thought to be a clear message from the General on the matter of taking seriously the discussion that has taken place in the past few months, that the council felt it would be unacceptable to go home and go to the election without taking some step. It is, in fact, revealed in the report, and I mentioned it in my history, that this is not a perfect step. There is a weakness in changing the changes that must now take place in a phase. In fact, in my background, I made it clear that if the second step does not take place, yes, I believe that people are going on a high track of employment freedom laws, for example. And also with other general civil rights protected by both constitution and international agreements. However, I do not doubt that there is much solid solid solidarity at the council to continue this work. Since the Ministry has produced such a bill and actually has it in a review process, as explained in the bill, I feel that I provide at the end of it, too, even if it is chosen late next month. There is no boundless way to go that way. I do, however, feel that a clear message is coming from the council, as if I were referring to the above, and I believe that the legal matters that arise here are manageable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u42	A respectable president. I may not be as sure as many others do that it is the role of the Senate by its legislation to send a message, but, above all, to create a review of the rights the citizens receive. It is a fact that after the election, a new assembly will meet. As much as we would like, we cannot fully guarantee what will happen during that assembly. It is not certain that those taking seats will make the criminal civil rights of criminals, offenders, a subject of emphasis, and that will be put first. That is why I simply want to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he will stress the importance of their discussion of government development or the future of congregational work at the next assembly, if he will qualify, that these matters be put first and done soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u43	I can say yes, it is clear that there is an emphasis on completing that work. There's nothing else here. It is part of supporting the situation to support continued work on the global reexamination. There is then much to say about the recent discussions and the terms, the experiences of those who are tolerated, e.g. Sexual acts have been taken care of because this aspect of the matter is really different from the question of whether a certain specific or civil rights should be restored after the person has taken their punishment. It seems to me that such restoration of civil rights will continue according to the alliance that will appear in the Council soon ensure that it will happen spontaneously in the future; there will be no application; there will be no recommendation, no administrative decision; it will be not supported by the Minister's assessment, as the warrant stated today; it will simply be established in law whether or when it will be able to obtain certain specific rights. The public rights, and then I'm specifically referring to a ballot, I don't think it's clear that a man should be recovered. This aspect of the matter may not have received much attention or discussion. In this respect, however, the result of the review may be that in some cases it will be easier, easier, more easy to restore the rights that all the discussion has been about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u44	President. I'm glad we're going to do something about this. However, if there's not a completely specific time line on how to proceed with the case -- we don't know what happens, we don't know how long the next government will start trying to get together -- there's a pretty small risk that very many people live with uncertainty. Although this is a response to a tragic failure of the management board for the relapsed application, many of the people who wish to get caught by autopsies so that they will have, according to the spirit of the law that should be done in the next season, are entitled to apply and be able to obtain the rights they seek. It is naturally very important to keep in mind. I think there's been a bit of a misunderstanding in the discussion, since on the other hand we're better off living in a reformed community. Those who are truly better off sitting in prison, just as others are granted civil rights after they have served. Fortunately, we are not like the United States. On the other hand, the whole process around this issue shows that there is something extremely important about implementing various regulations and regulations in the administration. I hope that this will not be the only way that the work will be done in a natural and open process, but it applies to other matters that are somehow provided for closed doors. What I would like to do in any part of this process is that the reason we're changing the law of honesty has done a lot of harm to people, especially to families and crime. I have not seen that those who put this bill first and whose main importer has done much to repair the damage done to these people after they have gone through very difficult experiences. I say like what? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek that I don't think it's a good song. I don't feel that this is the way the Independence Party is talking about, and just now, the importance of law being done was expressed. Instead of tearing it apart so as to score some point, it could have been resolved by a statement, it could have been accepted into this process. The information on what might be better handled and how to adapt was handled by the proselytists so that the Independence Party could support it. But now, it was mainly the Independence Party who did not want to change the law about who could get legal rights. I believe this is really a step forward, but at the same time, after my experience at the council, I do not trust that this will necessarily end well unless this very rigid plan is made. It will come, for example. in the case of a judge or rather a prime minister - I don't know if a man calls a minister who is destabilized in a government supreme, so I'm just going to skip it, Mr. President - it says Prime Minister on the staff that he thinks it's only possible to shit the mix to go past the constitution. I think it's a very strange word. I don't get it. I hope that the General and Education Committee that gets this case on board to get a memo on whether there's any forensic doubts in this case, whether there's any uncertainty in case this tape worm doesn't run out very quickly. Do we have a thing for saying that the next assembly will go to that job right away? I hope to make it very clear what our will is. It is absolutely necessary that it actually adheres to the law, for we have just found it in the laws of foreigners that if something is not clear in the law and is in the paper, those who enforce the law feel that they are not to be examined in the spirits of the law and in the articles and talks of the members of Congress. There is always a better way to prove that we must be more careful in handling laws. The laws and suggestions we have on the table of this brief council would have required more than one day to complete them, that's just how, President. I think it is important to show respect for those who have suffered because of this matter that we give ourselves the time we need in order to cover it thoroughly so that we do not return to the point where there is a defect in the law that comes from us at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u45	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change to general penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes i.e. the change in the term "copying " from 84th and 85th. gr. The law in accordance with the discussion that has taken place in society since spring. President. What we face here is in many ways a reaction, a political reaction to the reality that all of us have to face, face, and face, and do not look away. In 2015 we held in Iceland on the 100th term of women. During and since that time, one feminian wave of another and one force has affected the entire community. We can name the slut walk. We can name the breast revolution. We can speak of real violence. We can mention all kinds of grass - based movements that have been raised and that the tolerance of sexual crime should be exalted, should be exalted, and should require society to stop shutting down these problems, that society will take note of these voices, and society will react by reevaluating all laws, laws, and practices in society, the ability to break down for good. This wave we're part of right now is the wave that blew up the government. Iceland's government, which only sat for a few months and ends it, is part of Iceland's women freedom story. This endpoint is part of a feminist struggle story because it was due to such strong waves that it was not sufficient to lean on traditional political decisions on economic growth, economic control, and other standards that people would like to agree with when it comes to politics. The time had come for those who had high standards to be more aggressive and stronger than for them to be overlooked. The families and representatives of Róbert Downeyr's violations raised this out - of - date code and this unscrupulous procedure set the matter up, discussed the facts, and also the restoration of legal rights by court hearings discussed here in protests. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir and Supreme Court. Minister. The media discussed the matter. It's because of them. The media does not stop. The media helped keep things high. The media reflected what is good in Icelandic society, that we are not going to participate in the silence of such crimes. Thanks to that. When a board of directors and surveillance committee first considered that my wish in July came early in the day when the management department found that the issue of honesty is a disgrace and has been a disgrace for many years. It reveals that the project has been mechanical, without reference. While it is in public penalties that the president can give men credit if the formal requirements are met and the applicant's standing as well as the valid proof that his behaviour has been good at the time to be observed, the procedure has been made enough to call after the comments of two persons, who have been called to know men, though not in the law themselves. In fact, these reviews are very universal, consisting of very general expressions, and there is no reference to what should be made. It seems that it's enough for a childhood to say, "That's a good guy." This same Ministry, which has been hosting this project for years, let me say that it is not beyond doubt that it is in the hands of legislation on this matter. I would like to impress all of us here, as well as those who will be here again after the next election, with the new members of Congress who are authorized by the nation, to maintain that the Council itself must first look at the most critical changes to be made. We need to hold this project because part of the impossible is the responsibility of the Iceland Board of Management. I'm sorry. That is the case, and that is what we need to discuss. A bill of what is available here from a minister is at least a possible change in this legal environment. As we have seen, this is because of an extremely important case of opinion, such as to form a legal right, which is, in my opinion, a case that should have ended at this council. The government that reflects on this project in the Ministry of Justice for years is part of a profound lack of understanding in Icelandic administration and in Icelandic politics on the severity of the effects and consequences of sexual abuse. It is so that the Ministry is also responsible for creating suspicions around the case with unnecessary covertism, by intruding into red death, by delivering data that were naturally required to be published, normal requirements for the public, normal requirements of the media, and, finally, the natural demands of the administrative and surveillance committee. Sadly, this secret thinking and approach to these matters are also very deep among various politicians. In the Commission and Control Board, the chairman of the Commission repeatedly discussed the matter with a certain lack of seriousness and superiority that, in my opinion, would not be appropriate for the chairman of the Council's Commission, made the shoes of no importance, that no one had anything to ask for or examine them, etc. But something else has happened during the day. The point of view. The former director of the Board of Directors and Follow-up committee was given during the discussion, there are views that must be no more than past. These are the viewpoints we've heard and heard last in answers to the highest. Minister of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, answers us now. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. Take care of the matter, take a firm stand, speak down to those who want to keep the discussion open and in the air. That time must be past. We must show such respect and show this feminic wave the understanding of how it works with an open mind, listen, and reacts. The bill is as follows: the slightest possible reaction to the above events has been observed. An article with the bill speaks of a law that needs reexamination if this bill is to be a law. That's good. That's very nice. However, there are also other issues to follow. What's that, Mr. Honorable President? This problem is so profound that here we need a matter of Congress that will explain the status of sexual abuse in the entire justice system, suggestions for reform that include re-education of judges, re-education of prosecutors, re-education of lawyers, in this area. We can't stop here. We have a long way to land, but very important steps were taken this summer. It is our to continue this struggle in behalf of that open discussion of the effects of sexual abuse in society, this vast impact of bullying and rape. We need to keep in mind that taking a single term out of the law and then living up to its standards is not enough. That won't do. It's a step we're supposed to take. We're supposed to take it and support it. But we must not let it go because it is not enough. We need a wide range of campaigns in the entire justice system, in the whole system, in the school system, by education, by reeducation, and by awakening, to keep it on schedule that children and women are not comfortable with sexual violence day after day, month after month, year after year, and year after year, and are allowed to shrug over it. By morning, the gathering was on everybody's lips for the women's shelter. The lady's wife's manager told me that by Saturday, there were 29 women lying on the pillow in the women's shelter because they had nowhere else to lay their heads. How much of it is of those who are fleeing violence from their closest ones? While these matters are still so, as long as the Icelandic Women's Association needs to be supported, while an Icelandic community needs to be held in politics, we need feminism to be promoted in the government. We have to face the fact that in another way this fragrance of the fathers'empire will not be broken again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I'd like to think about it by the way I asked the highest point. About the President. Chapter 4 of this fine piece of articles presents statements that could be understood as becoming this bill to law, and nothing else will happen for a long time, we have taken certain civil rights such as this. of the men who are serving sentence longer than one year. I'd like to ask her if she agrees with the opinion presented in the report, that it would not be good alone if there were to be a permanent situation. I'd also like to ask her if she will stress that these cases will be complete as soon as possible, i.e. the second stage of this review will be complete. How long is the time offered by men serving a sentence longer than one year unable to volunteer to the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u47	President. Thank you. A senator resists. As shown by the review of the case, the matter is absolutely showing that it is working under a pressure of time. In fact, my position on this matter was that it should be stated in a preliminary law on the bill that a review of the matter within the stated delay should be made in order to maintain pressure on the Ministry of Justice to complete the case. There is always a danger that such a situation may or may become overly difficult. So I worry about what. Senator, you have to lie down as soon as possible. It is never good when new problems arise in the process of legalization, but there are truly questions that need to be answered. It will be the task of a new assembly, along with some others, to answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u48	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the answer. Then I'd like to ask the following question, because why? A senator mentioned temporary matters. That's exactly what I thought first when I saw this suggestion that there might be a better way to put either some kind of pressure output against the European Commission to make suggestions to make changes that would truly give men a chance to gain civil rights, re-election, or simply to make the knots of this particular law, 81. g., wouldn't be effective for a certain time. Thus, rather than taking away a window without making a clear promise of what would take place, the council would be pressured to respond. So I'd like to ask you why. Still, a senator would be pleased and content with this conclusion as it is available, or would she have chosen the others, and why she felt that it was not the result? In case of a moment. A senator would go to work to suggest some sort of deadline, how long does he think it is normal? Keep in mind that the deadline is the time when Icelandic citizens who serve a sentence for more than one year do not have the opportunity to volunteer to the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u49	A respectable president. The Senator to information was that when we were starting our first conference at the end of the Council, we began to draw out an outline of the bill as this because we had not yet seen any bill from the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice. It had not been distributed. We had not seen what it would look like, though it was since what was presented here. So the discussion was at the point where the pressure was being debated. A senator and I agree that these data need to be included, should be more appropriate in a report or provisional arrangement. My stand was that it was a matter of temporary action. That was not the result. Then the minister suggests that this is only part of the report. It's just a list of what needs to be considered on these laws. I'm not gonna give you a date. I can't shoot at any date in the air. I'd like to hear from the Ministry about what's practical in that. It's not acceptable that that that time is long. I'd rather have that frame narrower than bigger. If the Ministry mentioned a date, I would be closer to today than far away to meet the Ministry's wishes on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter for her passage. I would especially like to agree with the senator that it is a joy to be a revolution, to say, feminism changed the community and the minds and standards of most people, I would like to hope, here on the land. I think it's a quality of society when the citizens themselves get together and talk loud and clear about what they don't think is good enough in society and that listening to it is a sign of community strength. I have personally been involved in this fight. I can testify that it's not only strength out of hand but also for yourself. I agree with the senator that it is a great sign of joy and strength that a case is moving toward a better end in this way. But I would like to ask. A senator. I heard her review of the subject that the discussion in the community since spring moved on. I wanted to ask a kindly question, since there is a justice minister who alone had a justice minister, before these matters were discussed in the community, where her sense of justice was offended - she felt that these laws were not good enough. Is it not proper to maintain and also rejoice that a minister of judicial matters made a personal decision to do something about the situation, even though no other outside pressure was there?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u51	A respectable president. Yes, I can thank you very much. A minister of justice for her part in meeting this atmosphere in society, as well as for putting question marks on the mechanical hearings of the Ministry of Justice, for she has certainly done so. But I wish I had also seen the highest. Justice ministers and other government ministers, perhaps particularly the Ministers of the Independence Party, would have approached the matter and the discussion with greater humility in the general population. Sadly, much too much of the talk was given to these matters. Without the fact that I'd like to discuss the words of some noncommunicators, I think everyone will see what this is all about. So I don't want to let the matter pass on Sigmid Andersen's position by checking it out in her Ministry. I think it's important. I want to thank you. A senator for mentioning it and keeping them a part of his minister in this discussion. Nevertheless, I think it would be a good lesson for politics in general that we listened more closely to the fact that the political debate is not only about economic matters, it is also about feelings, even about when you are offended, about the time when you are given the opportunity, about how children feel, and about how people feel at home. You see, political also revolves around values and the value of society every day. I think that's the lesson after the explosion of the government in the days when people need to realize that politics is more complex than just economic groups. The last two governments were killed, not because of the economic situation, but because of a sense of trust between the government and the nation at any given time. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important to be a lesson, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Regarding her closing words, I think that some executives of the management board are sorry to work on the other side of the law in which they insist on certain laws and regulations to avoid breaking up in their jobs, and on the other hand, to meet discussions or demands where they themselves feel pain and are very understanding of the matters but are in the way of the law frame. They may be bound to take other steps often but, unfortunately, feel good about themselves. So I would like to ask you why. A candidate in its expression on the bill presented here, which is exactly the reaction of those in charge to receive calls, although only to improve the mental damage of those who became hurt and angry during the discussion of the summer, although all here agree that this is not a perfect law of law. This isn't the last step. But isn't that where they're trying, within the law, to meet the calls of society? Where it is. A senator standing here saying that these laws do not go far enough, I would like to ask her kindly and respectfully: This first step is being met by a community cryer. Is it not a simple paradox to say that it would not go far enough and then say in the word when officials followed the laws and rules, that they should have done something else because they were supposed to meet with society? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have a better explanation for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u53	President. First of all, it is true that the bill considered here is part of our response to the Council, including an apostate government, to this appeal in the community. I hope it was perfectly clear on my part. But when I say this isn't going far enough, I'm mainly concerned about what's beyond what's stated in the report and about what's sometimes called the tapeworm, i.e. the legal classes of others that need to be joined on the basis of employment rights. Then I'm talking about how much closer we have to get to the root of things like this, i.e. position of sexual dysfunction. We need to go closer to the roots of society. We must not forget that. This is not just a case of betrayal and the implementation of laws or the restoration of offenders, sexual offenders, or other offenders, of society, or of legal rights, or of civil rights. Then I just want to stay with it for a while. A senator mentioned the different roles of the minister, as I understood it, i.e. that counsellors would have no problem, for they are officials who have to submit to the rules of office and, on the other hand, political leaders of their trade. And sometimes they go in front of their own party. Thus, they need to try to balance these factors, to fulfill their duties as officials, so that all is above doubt. But at the same time, they have to be careful about their relationship with their colleagues, with voters, with the Council, etc. I think this case is a good example of speech, and I think we'll see it when we look back, since the Ministers lost sight of the part of the role of being ministers, i.e. The political role involved in confidentiality with voters, General and collaborators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u54	A respectable president. I'm a little concerned about the schedule for this meeting. Now the President has completed more council members here, but I'm sure I'll ever do it. But we are once again discussing a case of some type of pressure, a case that is tried to pass through with some kind of contract, and it's changed, and so on. We were here less than a year ago, in a similar area, reminding me to negotiate a matter or to try to complete a matter. I have to say, it's all very important. But I ask, Mr President, how is it that we are not involved here on this program one of the most urgent issues to be resolved today? I don't agree with what. A councilman left greening that the most important thing is to get children to safety, I think she said so. That's a very important thing. But it is equally important to meet and rescue the families of sheep farmers whom no one has mentioned here in this hall. Some senators now roll their eyes around. I just want to know, who prevented them from handling matters before the end of the council? Who did? I'm told that it was discussed with some of the chairman's meeting to resolve a case, but that agreement was not reached. I told them last week at a council meeting that if this were left out, I wouldn't be able to handle the issues listed here. For the matter which I have mentioned here; the family, the house, the future, the gain of the sheepfolds, is no less important than these three matters here, to be done. I'm asking senators to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u55	Mr. President. This bill contains a small patch on the hungrybeds of sexual abuse and of others who have suffered pain because of the dreary way of ruling in this matter as well as others associated with it are going astray. This patch does not heal the wounds that happened to Róbert the Árni of Higgi's Hreiðarsson. Or Hjalti Sigurjón Hauksson. He does not heal the wounds he suffered when the Supreme Court of this land found that it was not risky that a man convicted of abusing five young girls would be restored to his legal rights. Not dangerous. These patchs here did not heal the wounds of those who had high standards, sought answers, and demanded that they be listened but received only pride, pride, and humility of the offenses they had tolerated. This patch does not change the way the government treats them in refusing to be guilty of wrongdoing and for information on how their tormentors can be granted a proof of his reputation and how it was carried out. Denial of access, of course, information with narrow statements that they have no right to do so. This patch does not change to the highest. The Minister of Justice spoke of the mechanical payment of these cases, of how each steward rose up after another, and said: "I'm not responsible, the system does, I didn't do it, I just signed because the system told me to sign, it was just some memoir that made me do it. This doesn't change anything about it. Here we are talking about surgery, which removes one small tumour of many that occurred after the break - resistant process and that of their caregivers began to be high. And this assembly was not prepared to take for another of all the greater things that were considered to be of little concern that a man who has abused five young girls gets his legal rights back. He is clearly trustworthy because he does not consider it to be safe to get it back, and nothing should be done to ensure that the same situation does not occur again before the election. So it is not dangerous that men who kill other men or abuse young girls or abuse women who are disabled can only get the privileged position in society to be lawyers. Mr. President. There was a suggestion that someone, just someone, would take the responsibility to weigh the interests of an individual who is reaching out for the privilege of acting as a lawyer again after they have been taken over because of the transgressions used to be known as a publicist, weigh and weigh the interests of society on whether or not the community should trust men who have committed to abuse their situation, to abuse their authority, to use oppression, deception, and other vile practices in order to force people to rape, rape, or oppress them in another way. Whether the community needs lawyers who have not committed such a crime. In this context, I may be able to correct what was presented in the case of a private prime minister that the one mentioned here suggested that in some way the public opinion of people say about the fractions of those who are retrieving for legal rights. It's just that it's not right. The one present put in place a bill that simply assumed that people who became guilty of abusing children, raping people, killing people, and standing that other sexual abuses can only be granted legal rights. On the other hand, a covenant proposal, which is not of memory, was made to ensure that there would be at least some material food so that someone, in this case, would accept the responsibility to weigh and assess the social interests that there are decent and good men and women who are doing this important work, against people's right to have some right to work as lawmen, the prerogative rights of society. Someone's got to make an assessment. So far, it hasn't been done. Courts didn't do that. The client thinks he can't do that. Because our law does not require that someone with the public, in the community, stand by the violations of the human beings who seek their legal rights again after a very careful violation of the laws of the land. No one took responsibility for it. This bill doesn't do anything to fix it. And this council was not prepared to arrange for someone to take responsibility that those who choose to be lawyers are worthy of doing that important work. What a disappointment that was! Moreover, this bill does nothing to address the huge number of information freedoms in this country. Not a thing. For example, a new constitution, which this council has refused, might be changed. What the bill, as well as the law, does, is removed from the common law of penalties. That's all it does. Besides removing the reproach that has been committed in the general law of penalties, it says that the offenses of those who have been forgiven are not to be mentioned. Fortunately, I say, this abuse has at least been removed from the law, which is a natural disaster and disgusting violation of freedom of speech. I'm glad this bill does, at least. But it could have gone much further. And if that's right, as high as possible. In his talk on this matter, the prime minister says. paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszek, of course, that in the bill there's a certain message from the council to the highest. Prime Minister, to see his own respect in coming here and to apologize for his conduct in this matter. You could also do that with a local justice minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. From that summer onward, a senator and her conduct in the matter. Without leaning on anyone else, I believe that members of the council of Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir have more than the honour that these matters have become so effective in the program of the council. As shown in a paper with the bill, there are 28 laws that would have to be revised by this legalization. But there is one thing that has not been mentioned regularly since these issues have been brought to the fore. It's youth laws. It is a code of law that has to do with children and young people under 18 years of age, but that criminal records do not reveal the possibility that candidates in such activities will have a clean record in them. I'd like to have the senator come into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think this is an outstanding indication that has been made in this regard and, of course, something that has to be done quickly. But this is, of course, part of a larger mex, that is, that is, an absolute failure, in the law of 1869 or so. It does not belong in our modern society, the way we are doing it. But how it has been interpreted and has been able to enter our legal systems so far, it has been designed to defend the State, mainly the state, from men guilty of economic crime. It's just a matter of guarding the government's money. For example, children, women, lawsuits, never had a voice, or had any expression. Nothing has been done to ensure that individuals who have committed atrocious act cannot do this. At least not sufficiently. Of course, this is part of what must be considered in this overall review. Many have come to my attention: Why not teachers, why not these or the others? I say, of course, all these professions. However, it is only two people who have these ◯ students who have got the credit for their delinquency as conditions. That is why I felt that this was also a significant matter for me. Of course, all of this sums up the changes in our society, our attitude toward what is responsible, our attitude toward authority. Is control simply the management of the State's money, or is it possible that it too is in some way a position or authority over other people, having them in its charge or responsibility? This is something I think must be the theme of an overall review of these laws, i.e. To protect the rights and human rights of all those who are in the care of others and in some way have less authority than those who are responsible for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u58	A respectable president. I wanted to introduce the senator to a similar statement, a stand, in the spirit of what I've been fishing for in the presence of other members of the council who have spoken about the bill. As members of the Parliament are known in chapter 4 of the report, certain doubts are presented in the statement by the president's permission: The right of individuals to volunteer in elections has been discussed in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The judges provide a principle that allows for a measure of limitations in the right, but much more than a moderate measure of such limitations and that they are not intermittent. From the moment we accept this change of law, which I imagine we will do, and until the revision of e.g. elections are under way, and the measures will not be intermittent with certain individuals, those who have been judged for more than one year. They will have no opportunities to volunteer in the elections that lie ahead of them or in the next election, unless we change the law. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the fact that I know that she is concerned with human rights and civil rights, she considers it acceptable that for a certain period of time humans cannot have their rights to make themselves available in any way. I'd also like to bring her in, as shown in an answer to the highest degree. Prime Minister to my request that he foresee in the future that this changed law would automatically restore the civil rights, whether she likes that solution or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u59	Mr. President. First of all, I don't think that we're limiting individual civil rights, much less an election for the Generals. However, and now I am a great citizen of civil rights, there is always a measure of interest in such activities. It may be a test stone that we are dealing with these matters, whether we can accept this change as it is now because of the degree of justice it holds for those individuals who might possibly be reaching out for an assembly and have no means to do so. The European Court of Human Rights has set up three conditions that must be met in order to limit these major civil rights that are not completely above all, such as. the right to life or the prohibition of torture, which is said to be restricted civil rights. In order to impair them civil rights, three conditions must be met. The first requirement is simply that there are laws at hand that impair these rights. We need to ask ourselves: " Are there or are there laws that impair these rights? You might reason that. Second, there must be a legal or permissible reason for the legislation that impairs the rights involved. It could, for example. For the sake of public interest, which is a very broad term the government usually uses for itself. If we were to say that these two requirements are met, which is all equal in these matters when we put a valid law in the General Assembly and we have the right reasons, we just have the final assessment, which is whether this deficiency is necessary in a democratic society. That is where this assessment is carried out. Perhaps that is where we have been losing, we do not support public interest against the rights of the individuals who suffer loss of their civil rights. This is a guide from the European Court of Human Rights to what is considered a righteous violation of civil rights. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to the other one in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u60	I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the light of her words and the list of the conditions she considers necessary to limit civil rights to whether she thinks it is so in this case - that might be a logical view based on paying for a vote - even if we would not revise other laws, even if we would not give people the right to get their civil rights back. Of course, we can't guarantee what the next council will do, that's just what it is; all members of the Parliament are bound by their own convictions or future votes. Does it think that the decline, even if there is nothing more to be done, and the bill as shown here, and the legal environment in which it occurs will meet the three criteria mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u61	A respectable president. I'm not sure because I'm going to have a discussion with the General and Education Committee whether anything can be done to improve the rights that I feel are going to get, the bill as it is now. I'm going to make sure that I feel like a legitimate impairment. I'm going to go through it properly, eat it in my head and see if it will make me feel the right way in this case. What I originally made was really the methodology that I will use to appreciate it. I'll take notes why. A senator about the possibility that we will not change in the future for the better in this regard. Hv. A senator also asked his previous opponent if I thought that the recovery of civil rights would somehow be mechanical, automatically, like the highest. a fine minister suggested earlier. I'd say it really depends on the nature of the fractures whether the process should be automatically or not. As we have seen, hiding behind a mechanical system that treats everyone equally is not a good thing to do. I feel that when it comes to this sort of thing, it totally depends on the profession. It totally depends on the violations of the government's responsibility to let people in such positions. That depends on the way you did it. Depends on what you want to do. I don't think it's automatic for people to be able, e.g. start working with children after they are broken after ten years. Is it enough to wait just ten years, hoping that that's all right? I feel that someone in the management system must be responsible for evaluating the safety of people in such areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u62	Mr. President. I would like to begin by rejoicing that today the law of justice is to be changed in general penalties. The need for such changes is evident from recent discussions in the media and on community media and committees. It was the victims of pedophiles who had loudly promoted government action. They and their people refused to accept how things were done and felt that governments minimized the crime they committed in dealing with the most serious of them; violence against children, sexual violence against children, and rape. Although ministers and council officials seemed reluctant to inform the matter, the media and members kept the case awake. The bill has made changes to 84 stret. general penal law and 85th par. is taken out. This is the first step toward making a complete review necessary for the next council. The bill is designed only to stop the government's surrender from the authority's mandate in 85th chapter. The law and 238 strategies. He'll be gone, too. It has been said about what happens during a new assembly. Can we be sure that an overall review will be carried out? I'm convinced because all the directors of the board, and all the senators who have expressed themselves, want this overall review. I trust she'll go out. A bill report says, with permission from the President: There has been a wide range of efforts to resolve as early as possible from current rules and implementations in the case of delinquency. This is indeed a cautionary statement, for it is true that for the common people, change is impossible to accept. The demand for changes in these laws is clear and loud. Our neighbors in the Norwegian countries have long fixed this. In short, the process of dating is this: When an application for the surrender is received, the Ministry is requested for public proof of good conduct. Then it will be checked to see if time conditions are met. Next, try to verify good behavior by checking messages from at least two interviewers and see if the applicant is not having a case in the justice system or has a criminal record relating to prisons or the court's pleas. If all of this is fulfilled, a secretary's memo will be performed in order for the person to be granted credit. The Minister of Justice will then take the case to the government, where the prime minister gives the case and thereafter goes to the president. This mechanical process, which has been called on in the discussion, where no one wants to know what to do, is unacceptable and the requirement for change is self - selective and long gone. It must continue. Although the whole process was going on because of a court order, a convicted pedophile could get his legal rights back after he was brought up, there are so many other jobs that need to be made clear that their child molesters are not at all. There are teachers, caring for disabled children, and those who are vulnerable, a school driver, and many more jobs with children. All of this needs to be done well at the next assembly and must be passed through the rules. There must also be a careful consideration of the treatment of sexual abuse in the entire system. Mr. President. I'm an emissary officer of the Board and Control Committee, so I've been following and participating in the work at the Committee, and like others, I've observed all the coverage that has been carried out outside the committee on this case which is extremely unpleasant. After the insistence and appeal of the victims of a sex offender, he asked for it. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir following a meeting in the management and monitoring committee and was supported by several members of the committee for that request. On July 18, the meeting was held, and the committee requested to see the corresponding letters in the specified case and to make a summary of the offenses that had been committed by candidates in the past few years. Three days after the request of the Committee, or July 21, the Minister of Justice has contacted the prime minister and tells him that his father is one of the members of a child molester who had abused his stepchild for 12 years or since she was five years old. In August the committee received a letter of recommendation from the Ministry of Justice in confidentiality and a representative of that meeting and all representatives of the Independence Party unless the chairman of the Committee went out of meetings and refused to see the letters. During interviews with the media, they stressed that they did not want to know the names of the participants. The Ministry of Justice refused to see the letters and the State Radio charges advising committee on information matters. Then, on September 11, the decision - making committee comes and the media receive the letters of recommendation. Then everyone will know about the father of the prime minister. The men who then gave the recommendation to excuse or refuse the arrival of a crippling child abuser will follow. To the people of the land, they lived up to a defenseless, teenage girl, and a five - year - old girl who suffered a terrible crime that never gets old in their mind. And the board failed because of confidence. As soon as I'm glad we're here to change penalties, as this bill assumes, I'm ashamed of the secrecy involved in the matter, a secret which seems to have only been to defend men who recommended that pedophiles get mad, not just any man, but a good sponsor of the Independence Party and the father of the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u63	A respectable president. It is not my intention to extend this discussion in particular. But I think it's important to touch her a little bit. As everyone knows, this is a simple bill about a change in general penal law to obtain the authority to give up. This simple bill is made up of the long negotiations of every group sitting at the General Assembly, one of the few cases that we have here at the council before the election. An election we made because a government team was cut off after an even greater amount of money was discovered around the almugation of inventors than anyone had suspected to have happened. Giving up trust is something we are familiar with. We are familiar with the wording, perhaps especially because it sounds unconcerned. For most of us, the word is not honest, but we know it and reflect on it when we hear the word "good news ": What does this mean? What does it mean to be straight? What does it mean to have an unspotted reputation, as shown in the law? Of course, all of us have certain ideas. In a community like this in Iceland, they're pretty consistent ideas. Being honest, having a good name, an unscrupulous reputation, is not a technical definition of the law, but something that society accepts as moral. That moral attitude changes. It's very enjoyable, and I think we're all proud to live in a society that has developed these moral standards very fast and certainly and even beyond what is happening in general when it comes to the right and respect of various groups of people, when it comes to equality, as it turns out, over and over that Iceland is standing before other nations. Such moral standards are a matter of reputation and reputation. In the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, we have had laws of honesty, license to give credit to anyone who is actually in my mind as near as medieval separation. This is an age - old definition, based really on the fact that a fat king or some central authority has the right to define who is defamatory, who does not have reputation, who does not have character, and who does not. Since then, we have written and conducted many laws to assume that humans have certain rights, that humans are excluded from certain rights, that they do not have this defined reputation of power. I think we've all thrown away that this is normal, that provincial provincials, whether they are ministers or what, have the right to define reputation and reputation. But the law has offered it. And the reason why my squad, the bright future, could not continue in a government partnership is that certain persons who had better ties or simply more knowledge of the Law used a long - term lawbook to use these laws, as well as those who had more knowledge of the laws. Then it turns out that when these laws are being examined, and I want it to be clearly stated here that it is quite obvious that a local justice minister and representatives of all political parties at the council have declared a strict willingness to take away this law and to prevent this situation from continuing. But as we examine him, we see how many laws assume that civil rights and a variety of professional rights depend on unscrupulous reputations. It is listed in a paper with the bill to one of 28 layers as well as 34. The Constitution itself needs to be changed to deal with the fact that it is no longer authorized to make a name that is unspotted. I think it's very good and important for us to work in a so-called alliance, it's going to be in all these laws to define in what situation, if any, if any, if they become serious, they can restore civil rights. A lot has been said about legal rights, which, of course, is one thing in this law. But here are also law letters where the term has come in like, for example. There's a possibility of running the country. But elections, legal rights, accountant work, etc. Perhaps what is most obvious is the need to revise. A decision must also be made regarding whether and under what circumstances humans can restore rights to certain jobs or qualify for, for example. Since we're about to be elected very lightly and quite clear that this was one of the matters that we couldn't complete with a bandormim all the way during those few weeks, we are presented until election elections, I think it's very important that we take this step, taking out a warrant to give up our heads. In many respects, this is a Sophia decision. We know that we, or the next council, will deal with the other law in the bandormins. But the fact that this assembly is going to vote without we agreeing to this bill and showing the public in Iceland, shows people who have been in many ways like a blasting wound so many months over these cases, shows tolerationists who have received reports from a series of false offenders, that we show respect for them to stop and drag these sources back, I believe that there is a question about the honor of the World Council. I'm glad we have this case on the program, we have it all up, but I'm also stressing it, and it's going to be a message to the next council, that the rest of the work, the tapeworm, or the adjustment that remains, will be made to work in them quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u64	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister noted that the matter had to do with a degree of confidentiality that caused a loss of government cooperation. Thus, in recent discussions, it has been noted that after an Aldus agent visited a committee meeting and explained that it was not wrong to give the information or whatever it was, it was asked that Bjart's future had been infringed out of trust. It was suggested that there had been no confidential talk. At any rate, I understand that the breach of trust was elsewhere than the U.S. Marshal Aldus described at the committee meeting. I wanted to pray to the highest. A minister to explain more fully what this confidentiality was really like so that no doubt about why this matter was so important in cooperation with the governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It is simple to tell, even if it is not directly relevant to this bill, but the confidence that caused a bright future to end the government work is like that. A senator points out, not legal. On the one hand, he is the confidence that is revealed in the decision made by a ruling committee that has decided that it was illegal to deny information to the media and the public. There is a confidentiality that is common in the governance system, or at least in many places, i.e. The tendency to provide information only if necessary i.e. The standard response is that information is not provided, but that information is not provided unless it is permitted to provide it. It is, on the one hand, the confidence we've talked about, but it's no less the confidence that became within the government when ministers of one of the Government Party talked about information that was sensitive political but did not reveal it, neither public nor collaborate or other ministers, which, in light of our minds in the bright future, lacked confidence in the cooperation we felt would need to be able to endure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u66	A respectable president. I have faced several members of the council with which I have come to certain doubts and concerns that I have regarding some of the elements of this bill. I'd really like to sit on them real quick. First, in chapter 4 of this series of articles, it is noted that according to the European Court of Human Rights, restrictions on success should be balanced and not premature. Nevertheless, with this bill approved, even though it is being considered necessary in many respects, the conclusion remains that these limitations will, at least temporarily, be premature. Those who have a sentence on their back for more than one year, or those who serve such a sentence in the prisons of the country, from the execution of these laws until the tape worm is approved, if it happens, will not be able to enjoy the civil rights to volunteer. In chapter 5, the assessment of the impact of the bill is referred to the bandor, and then said, by permission of the president: Since that review is concluded, the bill, if legal, will be the result of a growing number of people who do not enjoy the civil rights that result in failure. Of course, it's a little difficult and complicated. Of course, when is a good time? What is the right time for society to enjoy the right conditions that a certain section of people cannot restore their civil rights? What I think first is that that time is close to being zero days or zero months. It would be the preferred time for such conditions to be warned that we cannot, of course, promise what will happen in the future. Despite their declarations, many members of the Parliament promised that they will work to reevaluate the law when they come together again, however, people will not completely agree on what is to be done in such a review. First mate of the bill, the highest. Prime Minister, this was mentioned in his speech in his opinion that the bill would mean that in most cases this recovery would be automatic. Since then, it has been observed in the dark. Sunna Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir said that she did not necessarily think it would apply, at least not to all crimes. I'm not skeptical about people's intentions to want to work on this law reviewing this bandorms, but it can certainly happen that at the next council it will not be content with the exact method of this revision, and it will lead to a temporary continuation of the case. Meanwhile, the growing population of people who cannot restore their civil rights. I don't know how big that group is, but I know there are people who are sitting in the prisons of the country who are concerned about this. This is sometimes a process that is being carried on in order to set a specific end for a specific time in one's life, although the above examples have been discussed and presented in the news did not necessarily provide the best example of how to use such terms. I'm not gonna have this much further for now. I'm assuming the bill will be discussed on a committee committee. I'm finally going through the bill a little bit. It's not far. A- team 1st. is referred to as a change of 84. This is the automatic process. I don't see anything wrong with it being different. Likewise, I'm sure I'm 2nd. 238. gr. If a person goes away, which is about to be forbidden to be carried back because of the fact that after he has grown up, he is hurting at least to some extent my sense of justice. I know that in many cases it also does. I have certain doubts about such an unscrupulous departure of 85 st. which is presented here without any substitute unless the promise of a review of these matters is made. I think there might have been a better way of sharpening it by some form of preliminary action. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u67	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in the U.S. election law to the Generals, No. 24/2000, with subsequent changes. The bill is submitted by a board of administrations and monitoring committees and is fully agreed on by the Committee. The bill means that there is a preliminary rules on the reference date of the application for the right to vote. The purpose is clear to all of us. Materially, the bill means that in the last October 11 of this year, Icelandic citizens living in a foreign country will be enrolled in an elected file. They then have the right to vote for the total elections proposed on October 28 of this year. Similarly, those who have already sent a proper vote application, which was due to be valid since December 1 of the second person, received a vote for the coming election. The prime figures of similar material were adopted on March 3, 2009, for total elections, which took place on April 25, and then September 6, 2016, for the total election of September 29, 2016. Other than that, we refer to a piece of paper with the bill, Mr. President. It is suggested that the case be handled directly to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u68	Madam President. Only a few words on this matter that I'm happy to have happened, and I watched as part of the conclusion here, a meeting agreement on the laxness of the Senate work to be made. It's becoming an old acquaintance. A similar change was made in the case of an executive before election in 2009 and again before the 2016 elections. Here we are for the third time in a situation where an unsuspecting election should be undertaken, or within the year the permanent law on this will prove to be against us. I think this third occurrence should serve as a reminder to us, to reevaluate the arrangement of these laws permanently. Of course, there should not be any particular date in the law that would allow Iceland's citizens to live abroad longer than these general eight years can only report in and the rule is simply that there is some deadline for a vote day that wakes up so that a national book can be prepared and transferred into a budget. I think that's one of the things that should be considered, of course, can be included in a re-election song where there have been other things and I know about them. This needs to be considered if it begins to become more a rule than the exception of Iceland, that elections should be unexpected, and at some point within the year, that it prevents people from being normal and normal enough to want to take advantage of this right. He is a great number of Icelandic citizens who have temporarily lived abroad, may spend a lot of time in foreign territories, even for the sake of the country, and so carry the home but, of course, maintain their citizenship and, of course, have full right to participate in total elections. This solves the problem in this round, creating time for October 11 to be reported. I've already taken care of these matters, or I've recorded them, including in early years, over a year ago, and I've already received a number of inquiries about abroad as to whether this will not be pulled back to the past now. Well, that's good. Mr. President. Other than that, I just want to say about this end of the council, because I'm not sure that I'm here more often than likely to say that after an incident, I'm satisfied with the conclusion that has occurred following the discovery of the leaders of the clans. There are four important issues, however, that will be resolved before the hearing. That is what was discussed last, on the change or discontinuation of a decision to break up, that is a very important change in foreigners, that is this adjustment to the terms of the election, and that is an agreement that hopefully sees the day and will be made public on this day to provide as well an important matter that, unfortunately, does not work and do services to the disabled, who are disabled with a great need to serve, often called the NPA, and on the other hand, a review of local social services and related matters. Despite much well - meaning and thought, it does not prove to be a situation to end, obviously not on this day. But instead, after a good cooperation with a welfare committee and a meeting committee, including with the highest. Minister, have tried to seal an agreement on as difficult as anything possible to eliminate any uncertainty that the users will then face in the next few months so that there will be no breach in the ministry and there will be future plans for the improvement in this field. I feel that this is an acceptable harvest, and after the day's work, I'm content to disappear into the election's senses.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u69	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask rejoiced a little too early that this would be the last time he spoke of this council. It was a speech so often with a man. The senator was interested in listening to a fine tip that involved us here for the third time putting provisional laws into the campaign law. I would like to learn more clearly from the senator how he would want to see the terms of the election lastingly. This bill has been moved by the management and monitoring committee. I understand that the committee had no intention of bringing the matter back to him. In captions of Article 3. it is logical to support why it is reasonable to have a sunset dress in the law that is being done something that was meant to be only temporary. But I think that's what. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask is here pointing to a fundamental question that we need to answer: Would it be reasonable to have such regulations, that people just don't fall out, can file charges at any time? Or do members of Congress feel that we want to go the other way? It caught my attention in the Bfenit national law payment in Britain that a considerable number of British citizens living abroad did not have a chance to express their position, it was just not allowed. They had to live in the land in order to take part and tell them what their position was. I'm not saying that's my attitude. Either we want to make sure that a citizen can always participate in a vote or we believe that conditions should be that people are simply placed in Iceland and with a legal home in order to participate in elections for the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u70	Mr. President. It was not the meaning of me to raise a lot of discussions here with my innocent speech. I thought I was talking about a case that had no disagreement. But I am kind and obliged to answer answers in these matters. This turns to those who have lived abroad for more than eight years. The last time this is changed, a line is drawn into the sand, and the project is that you stay in the sufficiency and be part of the ideals where they had their last home until eight years ago, they disappear. Instead of the earlier requirement, they could accuse themselves of a ballot, as it was called, by sending a letter to those who had the Constitution in place where they wanted to sue it - which was a long process - it was designed a relatively simple arrangement, that they could fill out a blank form, send it in to national records, and that they would bring it into the ideal file. The problem is that this is tied to December 1 each year. Of course, regular campaign elections take place in the spring. This is what happens when elections are announced unexpectedly, and as a result, people have not necessarily been too busy to make such a announcement until they receive regular elections. Now this is happening for the third time. I think the best permanent follow-up on this is to take out this date, instead of setting up a national record that will always have minimum time for elections to import applications. Somehow, all applications that have been received three weeks before the elected date should be taken and treated. Then there would be no need to deal with this every year. [[The president calls.]] The bill, on the other hand, is a satisfactory solution to the situation now, so I am totally satisfied that it is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I think I'd agree to do this permanently, by changing the date. There are two subjects on the schedule today. Another has already been referred to, and then there's a third matter involved in the alien legislation that enters the General and Education Committee. I wondered, since there are probably some sitting in the hall and listening on the board of command and surveillance committee, whether or not they should take the time, even if it was only half an hour or an hour, in a meeting and wonder if it could be done the way the senator talks here, taking out this date. It is clear that as we have seen how things have evolved after a crash, where elections have been announced three times earlier, that we have just got another date. Our custom now is to vote in the fall rather than in the spring. [[The president calls.]] It would be good to bring a committee opinion where it would be directed to the Minister of Justice to consider the possibility of presenting such a bill when a new assembly meets after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u72	Mr. President. Of course, I wouldn't mind, if a board of administrations feels that they have time to do that, and the circumstances allow here today, to go over whether or not they're ready to change this forever. I think it's relatively simple. But in no way do I want to get any sand in my womb about the completion of this case. It's very important to me. I know this is waiting. I'd like to say, I'm sure we'll pay for that foreign citizens who want to keep this association with the country can. I think that's normal. In most lands, this is the case. For example, we saw the vast number of Turks who could choose the election there, even though I would not mix them in other ways. I think that's okay. Finally, I remind myself again that, of course, a few technical adjustments have been made to vote. [[The president calls.]] For a while, it has not been time to do so because the election has been so unexpected. Of course, this should be absolutely in such a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u73	Mr. President. I just wanted to take this opportunity and say the word. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Of course, this need to be more permanent. Times change. A few years ago, if men had predicted that we were having elections so fast, I don't think it would have been taken seriously. So it definitely needs to be changed. I'm going to allow me to be optimistic and hope that a new council will now give me room to make the necessary changes in election laws that must be considered before the election is announced, so for the fourth time, it will not be necessary to give a bill of this kind. I don't expect a special answer on the part of the senator but I wanted to promote it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u74	Mr. President. There is no basis for great answer. I just thank you. A senator, chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee for the Subcommittee. So this is something to keep in mind. Of course, a board of administrations and monitoring committees that look best at these matters during the next term. So the question is, Should we expect this to be a rule rather than an exception, to be chosen annually in the autumn? I don't know if people in general wish for it. I won't. That is not necessarily what we need to be stable. But for myself, I just exist if I'm changing, and I'm naturally beginning this thing as it is known. That's a fight you'll take if they're available. But I'd like to say it's very important that a review of the campaign law come through. It would have been good to get it now for these elections, or country elections, in the spring. But I think it's up to men to set off when it could be three and a half years in the next general election after the spring election to complete the re-election process. There are several technical requirements that, for example, have repeatedly been directed by the General on the need to be adjusted. It is not unusual for a person not to have been through it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u75	A respectable president. It is quite simple, yet complex, when specific laws are needed. I've had a bill in construction to try to simplify it, but unfortunately it wasn't allowed to be completed at the beginning of the council. I expected to contribute to the council, but something else happened. It was simply a matter of not falling off an election record. This can be maintained in a much simpler way; there is nothing to be done with this system around the fact that people are falling out and filing to an elected file back and forth. Why can't people continue to vote even though they lived abroad for more than eight years, since there is the possibility of continuing to maintain their record - making success? I've also received messages in terms of this process. Now it is not necessarily easy to check into a ballot. I was doing this on the web, and digging into some form, and about the same; it might be easier. However, it may be even easier to vote in the election. Now you've received messages from students abroad who can't afford to travel to the next consul or embassy to vote. It is even small coins; students don't have much money between their hands. We're missing a democracies program that's very important to us. There could be some arrangements, e.g. can be applied to receive an electronic vote in exceptional circumstances, if you can prove it, just as if you want to report to a sufficiency file. The cost to me is more just than to be always handling this system to maintain an annual rate and decrease depending on the number of years abroad; that you can at least use your voting rights, no matter where you live in the world. Much more changes in election law would be needed. During the last term -- I think, there are so many, I don't really know if it's the last or the last - or the last - - a significant change in election law that has not been over. This is something we shouldn't have to endure. As I have pointed out several times during the recent council, it is very important to balance the voting rights, so we do not have to endure the fact that the more limited number of categories may have a very strong part in the council. If you have a very short degree of votes, you should also have a very short part of the council. During this assembly, this election period, the government was very limited, with a smaller proportion of paid votes. It must simply not happen; it is a democratically broken system. I expect people to take it seriously in the future to consider this campaign system that is the foundation of our democracy. If it's broken, then democracy will be broken, too. I'd like to remind you that it's not just this problem, i.e. that if an election is unexpected, then some dates need to be arranged, it's a much larger problem that we need to consider. I agree with the words of the first speakers that we need to take those challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u76	Mr. President. I'd like to get a little mixed up in the discussion. I think there is good reason, as this has been shown by other speakers, to consider things related to elections and votes and how men can vote, and probably to vote. We have this to strain after a very old system. Today, these factors are to be maintained, as do others. Of course, you have to make sure everything is right and there is no doubt that the system is working and all that. We know that discussion. I agree that I think it would be a worthy assignment for the coming council to consider these matters well. Besides, I'd like to agree with the senator that I think that an equation of vote is one of the most important things we need to do. The situation we live in is time to resolve. I was just going to make this right, I don't expect any specific reactions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u77	Mr. President. The bill given here is about changing the foreigners'law in terms of a trial period. The movers are also my reason. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Benedikt Jóhannesson, Óttarr Proppé, and Logi Einar Einar Einar Einarsson, who are the members of the General Assembly outside the Independence Party. Foreign law is relatively new. It was the ex-fiancée. Minister of the Interior State, Ólöf Nordal, proposed a complete review of the laws of foreigners based on the work of a parapolitan Senate committee. The result of that work can also be traced back to the former highest level. The minister of Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and Ögmund, son of Jónasson, who began working on the overall review of these laws. There's a complex group of cases involved here, where it is important that the law be followed closely. It was an incredibly important stage, I think I am, when, in fact, a parapolitic solidarity was achieved at the General Assembly on this complex and delicate but important matter party in the law of foreigners. However, it is important that these laws become experienced when they are carefully monitored and the legislation works, making the Lawgiver comfortable with the way they are followed. There is no secret that children's issues in the country have been very prominent in recent years, children who have been expelled from the country. This project has raised questions about whether to comply with the lawgiver's will as reflected in a law on foreigners considering candidates for international protection in a particularly delicate position, such as the 6rd paragraph 3. the law of foreigners. In comment, we comment on the bill, which is referred to at 2 mg. 36 st. a bill relating to the local alien law, is a guide to what it means to be especially sensitive to candidates. It may involve health, pregnancy, sexual orientation, race, gender, or the status of an unsurpassed child. Of course, it is defined in the law at a different location, not in the following article. In the treatment of the General Assembly on a bill for foreigners, this list was taken out of 36 C.E. c., however, the Committee's Committee called the Committee to Refuse the changes in interpretation of the bill should not be influenced. However, because of the cases presented here, children in the Syndicate group of disfellowshipped persons have raised questions about whether this change was made on the bill during the council's implementation had an impact on the work of the law. In particular, it referred to non - Israelites, where the committee felt that this change in bill was relevant to their decision. Therefore, we feel that in view of the position that it has been announced for election in a very short period of time, it is important to make temporary adjustments in the laws of foreigners so as to provide the children of the head with shelter, temporary shelter, and also to put it into practice with the bill to review the procedure of the law and to make adjustments if it is found that the procedure is not in harmony with the law's will. Therefore, it is suggested that two new provisions be added temporarily to postponement of the 2nd issue of 2nd. 36 st. The law will be reduced from 12 months to nine, which means that more than nine months have passed since the application for international protection has been received by the Icelandic government in general. At the same time, it is reasonable to refer to a material application by parents who have custody of their child and after siblings, on the basis of Article 1. 36 st. The law. However, it is suggested that the 2nd issue be delayed. 74. g. The law will be reduced from 18 months to 15. This includes granting a child who has applied for international protection and not having a decision in his case at the administrative level within 15 months of its first application for international protection in this country on the basis of humanitarian grounds for meeting other conditions. At the same time, it would be normal for parents who have custody of their child and, after the experiences of brothers and sisters, to have a patent on the basis of 1 mg. 74. g. The law to ensure the unity of the family to meet other conditions. It may be assumed that the NTSB is in the implementation of the law when it is decided to abstain from physical treatment or rights in some children's case as a 1 mg. a-arms 1. and 1st. b-joins 1. the bill - no, it can't have been right, yes, it was true, it's quite strange - cleaning up but the children still can't leave the country. With 2 mg. a-arms 1. 2 mg. b-joins 1. is guaranteed to them the right to repeat their affairs. It is granted two weeks from the execution of the law to request a repeat. If a child is not authorized at the time of the hearing, the decision is made by the NTSB, which in general suggests that the child would be made to leave the country. A child should not be left within the delay or during the treatment of recurrence. At the same time, it would be reasonable to avoid the parents of the child who exercise custody, or the children's experiences, to leave the country. It is suggested that the changes take place only for applications received prior to the entry of the law. In turn, it can be said that by allowing nine months of recovery to determine the desired extension, it would be the first nine months after the conversion of these types of changes could have a direct effect on post-resortration applications. According to our opinion on this matter, it is reasonable to provide such space so that a better estimate of the impact of the change can be made, and a new council can take a position on how the matter is desirable. I'm not going to extend this case. I could give a long talk about my views on how to deal with the refugees, refugees, and if we Icelanders can do more in what I think they are. But that's not what this is. This matter is about temporary provisions that give protection to children and their families and, if necessary, at the end of the election, make changes in the development of foreigners. I think it's extremely important to have an agreement that this case will be settled. Then we can have the political discussion about when a new assembly meets, and the nation has renewed its commission to the people here, while also taking care of the situation burning at least. has many of us found that these vulnerable ones are at the same time sheltered. I hope that there will be a wide degree of agreement in this matter and suggest that after this discussion, the case will be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u78	A respectable president. I come here as a member of the budget board and see here the document that follows the bill on the cost assessment, to follow all the bills and most comfortable. There is a table that says: If the applicant's growth becomes 500 people, expenses will be increased to this number of paintings by less than 1.5 billion. If there's a 1 thousand more, there'll be 4 billion in charge, if it's two thousand, that's 13.5 billion. I'd like to refer to this reimbursement programme, it's completely ridiculous. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It cannot be that, as the number of trustees increases, the cost of each truster cannot be increased. I'd like to see if the committee didn't make comments on this cost assessment and get a new cost assessment that has some connection to reality, for, of course, you would use this coin to improve the system that handles these applications at the same time as is done now and even to improve the current system instead of going into all this request. To be clear only on this subject, the committee discussed that the largest of these costs goes to the rural community, the rent and housing services of the inmates. Some may wonder where all this money goes, that's where it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u79	Mr. President. Now we're the people who are moving this case not to the General and Education Committee. Hv. A global and educational committee can review this cost assessment on the subject. We who bring this case are presidents and six political parties at the General. Of course, the matter applies to those who are already in the land. I believe this cost assessment that has been sent to us beyond what we know about their scope or the number of people in the country. I think it's normal for the committee to go over it. Because this is a temporary arrangement that applies to the number of people we know, the number we already know in the country, I don't think that this cost estimate will pass by this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u80	A respectable president. In his background, one authority described the purpose and purpose of this bill, if I understood correctly, of putting children away until it was shown that the implementation of refuge today would be in harmony with the legal will. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether there is any evidence that the implementation is not in accordance with the legislation or whether it is not in accordance with the law as it is, and was agreed by all classes at the end of the last terms. I'd also like to ask who the kids are coming to, as they say, for by the bill judging them, it's actually a set of sunsets. It would be good to know which children were exactly coming to safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u81	Mr. President. If the situation was natural, we would probably have more part and a government, and we would be in Congress and could be working on these matters at the council scene. But that's not the case, because this has been announced a violation of Congress and a campaign campaign. This means that the Council can't promote the case if any body members, whatever they are, feel that performing any law, does not reflect the law's will. Of course, in the case of the Lawgiver's will, children and the children's covenant are discussed in the law on foreigners. I'm not going to list children here, some names and landmarks that are supposed to come for cover. It's about some number of children who may have a bearing on exodus. For example, the Department of Foreign Affairs has concluded that a change made on the bill for the foreigners here at the Council at its time, 2016, influenced the interpretation of the law that was certainly not the law's will and is outlined in this bill. I believe, too, that if we were here with just a normal assembly, as on a normal annual trip, we would be inside the highest level. Minister after this, get an explanation from him, make suggestions. But we don't have that device right now, because we're going to the election on October 28th. Hence, we feel that the council will not be active, and the council cannot perform a normal surveillance and maintenance role that this provision is made so that a new council can decide whether the act of the law reflects the will of the Lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u82	A respectable president. I just asked because it's obvious that this bill only applies to certain children. I call attention to the fact that this year about 100 children have been expelled from this country following material treatment and at least according to the rules. Only in the past four weeks, 10 children have been expelled from the country. Tomorrow, children will be applying for asylums, the day after tomorrow and the day after that day, children will come here who will ask for privacy for various reasons. This bill doesn't reach them, if I get it right, so I wonder what exactly these kids are and for what purpose this bill is submitted for. Here we found some speculation about the cost in response to the cost. A senator asking for something else. Senator. Have prognosticators wondered if cost estimates are not part of the procedure and an assessment of the impact of this bill? Nevertheless, that is what I would like to ask: Has there been some kind of evaluation of the consequences of such a bill, e.g. the number of applications followed by the bill? Have the bill leaders made some attempt to make a realistic assessment of the consequences of a number of applications here and as a result of a period of payment and a country situation to receive these people and their service while they are staying here long or short?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u83	Mr. President. The nucleus of a new alien law was kindness. That was the point of new foreigners, all of whom met together. In many discussions, it was said that individuals especially need to be looked at in a delicate position. It is part of the core around which the law of law was centered. V.E.G. A minister must not grow old when he or she is a member of Congress and should have the support and supervision of those taking the job, asking questions at the highest level. A minister gives them too many numbers over previously cited children. Therefore, in writing this case, tourists say that if the candidate is in a more sensitive position, the will of the Lawgiver as expressed in the laws concerning foreigners must always be taken into account for the material treatment of international protection. We want to justify the will that was perfectly clear and clear when we agreed to a law on foreigners in almost complete agreement with this council. It must be normal for us as members of Congress to have the right to ask critical questions about the procedure of the law. And in view of the special circumstances here, we present this matter as the highest degree. A minister is doubting or wondering if any progress will be made. I trust that when an agreement has been made for the end of the council, it will be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u84	A respectable president. Watching the processing of this bill has been a big surprise. If I may say so, it has been more than tears for an official like the man standing here as secretary of the jury to observe the preparations of this case. Often, smoke - filled back rooms, horse weddings, decisions are made in treaties made by politicians who face a reelection campaign or a campaign. These comments are often appropriate, often in agreement, but I would rarely say as much as it is now. This bill in the form it now exists, and it has been presented dramatically since the fact that I as the minister of the seminar received it for lectures and comments. Many views have been tore. Yet, it can be said to the messengers to praise this bill that they have admitted that the original case was that it could not be offered to be taken care of in one day. All of a sudden, however, we are faced with payment on a bill, which has the sole purpose of resorting to certain applications for asylums from certain people to make sure that there are some who say something positive about it. In fact, in my opinion it is possible to argue whether the release would really be positive for these people. I call attention to the fact that the paper with the bill, which is now presented with the approach of the leaders of many political parties, is very few and does not really say anything about the real purpose or purpose of the bill. The bill goes out and supports a non-contracted lawsuit in the administration. It is assumed that certain cases will be expedient, in accordance with government wishes, since the minister of this matter could not be exposed to the information presented here, even if it had been tried and requested by a minister to intervene in some way in the payment of certain cases. That's what's set it up for. Senators responding, and many are shocked. Here, members of Congress have given in to the pressure of this bill. All I want to do is to tear the position of the trustees and these paintings in Iceland today. I recall that there were significant legal improvements in the interests of foreigners in general, not just those who are a fugitive or aggressors, but also immigrants and foreigners who live here. I am not tired of reminding of the tens of thousands of foreigners who live here and work longer or shorter in Iceland, who have always received and continue to do so. The requisitions included some of the other improvements. In fact, in new legislation on foreigners approved here, a transverse committee, representatives of all political parties at the Council, was formed at the end of the last term. Corrections have also been made through regulations, changing these new foreigners. All of this has resulted in an increase in the rate of speech and treatment of matters. This year, 824 cases have been taken care of at the Foreign Institute, i.e. it is subject to applications for asylum or stay for humanitarian reasons. These cases have been handled in a number of ways. 89 of these candidates have been protected, the remainder has not, but for various reasons. Some because they have already been protected in other countries and others because they are waiting for relief in other European countries. The duration of treatment has been substantially reduced this year. In 2016 it took an average of 8.6 months to resolve what was called the Dublin case. This year the trial period has passed for six and a half months. The material treatment cases are usually done in 12 and a half months. However, it also needs to be noted that the speed of the treatment also takes into account the multiplicity of the Dublin Protocol. This is a legal requirement. But it's in Schengen State's passenger water to significantly shorten that treatment period. That's why I think everyone, especially the trustees. I would also like to mention that I preached to the prime minister's debate with all classes attending this seminary. I preached a talk that would lead to a further resolution of the new foreigners and, if indicated, a consultation on the law as well. A respectable president. I was thinking about who's protecting with the bill. The result, if this bill is to be carried out, would be that there would be more of those seeking here to be sent to their home state instead of to the State they come from. Iceland enjoys this position for its own sake, that very few of the hospice seekers come here directly from war zones but from countries that have specialized in many ways to their reception. By taking the case of these trustees for material treatments, such as these are calling for, a case that would otherwise just wait for payment, for example. In countries such as Germany or Sweden, the conclusion may be that such cases would be sent to their own country. They would have been deprived of the possibility of completing their material treatment, such as. correspondent in Germany There was also the possibility of further protection. Of course, I think Iceland is the best in the world. I believe that those sitting in that hall will feel the same way too. But it may not be that all these people's best interests are in this country. Iceland isn't the best place in the world for many of these people. People who are in all kinds of problems and who need such a professional service are looking for a reason that they do not even exist in this country. This is what I think people need to keep in mind when discussing these matters. It's not a question of crowns and pennies. Now I'm not going to take that discussion, I'm not going to discuss it here. However, I would point out that there is a real shortage and that there is a permanent shortage of certain professional services that many of these people who are looking for here really need. I'd like to finally mention that the bill is, apart from its content, also defective in shape. Text, e.g. This report is out of harmony with reality. In a paper article, it can be said that a sound and a picture do not go together. It provides some kind of tips for a certain amount of payment, which, while the bill had to be done, will then not be able to resist the lyrics of the Law. This is totally unappreciative of the application of law lyrics and the implementation. I'm pointing, for example. the text in the report showing that it is accepted by the legislatator that a material application for international protection should always be taken into consideration if you are in a particularly sensitive position. This text is not in any agreement with the legislature as it was when the alien law was accepted, nor is it in any way consistent with the work that has been carried out by the people under the payment of these cases. It was never the will to accept every application for the physical treatment. It tells itself that the vast majority of those who are seeking refuge are in some delicate position. To argue that the lawgiver has in his last terms expected all such applications to be taken for material treatment in spite of our cooperation in the field of Schengen, with the development of the Dublin Protocol, from time to time, that this presentation and language transfer will not be considered. If this should be done here, or this should be done in a new way, it would need a significant discussion at the General Meeting with the arrival of all those working on these matters, humanitarian institutions, police, business at the Foreign Board and the Commission, and so on. Health authorities too. Remuneration in this case with the reference to this procedure cannot be in the direction of this policy. I know why. Congress officials are willing to step in on the other and these matters, in turn, into a political change. This is not a matter that allows people to get involved in it. Change as given here, or as I believe the bill maker of this bill would require a much more difficult treatment than this. A respectable president. I'd like to mention that this is my opinion and has been that the payment of takeoffs must be based on practical legislation. It must be based on equality as well as on that goal, the primary objective, to ensure that most people need shelter. In the case of priorities, priorities must be based on need and on some fact of who is fleeing the greatest distress. On the contrary, this bill is far away, so far away from these views, on the contrary, it is here intervening into individual professionals, interrupting matters that have received not just one treatment, not just two but three treatments at the administrative level. It's just that those litigators didn't do their job. Yet, there is no evidence in the report, no indication that any study in this case was conducted. It is a very disturbing development in my opinion that this bill will succeed and is not any of the trustees here looking for improvement in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u85	President. During the last term, a very high - level cross - political job was done at the Ministry of Justice for the current management of the work. That was quite clear to the Lawgiver's will on these matters. Sadly, this seems to have been so that one specific article was cut down from the Law text and put in a report. Which has led to the development of the Commission's reviews of matters without complying with the Lawgiver's will. Hence, it must be directed that this law be applied back into the law code. I just wanted to keep it up, because I feel that the words here have been passed by the Minister of Justice in some way not to describe the spirit here at the council during the last term. But I have a question. It was noted in the minister's case that there was no particular knowledge here to welcome the inmates mentioned in these laws. I just want to know exactly what the Minister means, team for team.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u86	A respectable president. I cannot help but discuss the legal will as he faced all the people of the land when the laws about foreigners were adopted during the last term. It claims that some sentences fell from the bill in the treatment of the council. [[The point is, there was an article...]] It may be, and that it has been changed. The bill was certainly changed since it arrived here at the council. This changed significantly in the case of the council. However, it is called a convocational treatment. The result of the treatment of Congress is the legal text that we are facing today, with existing foreigners and articles, which are actually addressed, so that I can now take an example from the report, 36. G., as discussed here, certain cases would be taken into account when a so - called Trinity case would be taken into account for the treatment of the material. It was quite possible that the council had no desire to receive physical treatment for all the so - called Dublins. If that had been so, it would have called for much more discussion than it had seen. Certainly, if it is the intention of the Lawgiver today to bring all the issues of the subject to the subject, it will call for a great deal of discussions and therapy, and I believe that the council cannot be settled except to care for its treatment. In the end, this bill does not move it into this text as a dog. A senator believes that a year ago, he was killed in the council treatment. This bill does not aim to make this a general rule, but it aims to make this a specific rule in behalf of certain people who are waiting for treatment, the payment of their administrations. [[The president calls.]] I have to answer the question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u87	President. It is quite remarkable to listen to this talk from a sitting government minister and her attitude toward children who are fleeing. It's amazing to listen to this. All you do is hurt your heart. Fortunately, after the next election, the same appointment will be most unlikely. I just have to say it. I really hope that these matters are taken care of. Here, we have only provisional regulations that will actually fail. I really hope that these matters will be handled properly, so we do not look up almost every week to the grief stories about children fleeing where their viewpoints have not been taken into account. That's what this is all about, kids running. We are to look to the United Nations Children's Covenant and keep them safe if they wish to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u88	Of course, I refuse, a respectable president, all reproaches about any hatred of children or ill will or lack of understanding toward children as they flee. [[Up front.]] In my opinion, this is not an acceptable hearing. I'd like to point out that we Icelanders have been giving 90 individuals shelter, including children. [[Up front.]] We want to protect our children who are most in distress, not the children most popular in the media or in the ears of the media. We want to reach out to children and help those who are most in need. [[Up front.]] So that they can be fed. We were asked what professional service and knowledge we lacked here. It is enough to mention a medical professional. People who have scars on their soul are looking for such experiences that, fortunately, not a certain Icelander knows, not by personal experience, and hardly by word. [[The president calls.]] Here we need all the knowledge we need to deal with the problems of these people who are bringing these souls here. And there are other comparable professionals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u89	The president asks why. Parliaments care for the talk period as well as not to be frontal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u90	A respectable president. I have to say, this case is the highest. A minister has a measure of concern for me now in the process of an election. Here, it presents such stiff - necked positions in front of the trustees and refugees we have not heard, this tone, here in the council hall before. It is only in the comments of members of Congress who did not rely on interpolitical agreements for improved legislation for foreigners in the spirit of international covenants and humanitarians. I'm concerned that the minister of the seminary is on this hard-lining look. I'd like to ask you two questions. I feel that she is not impressed with the leadings of the legislature that was accepted there because she claims to be the lawgiver's will in those matters and also minimizes a bill submitted by six representatives, in fact the presidents of six classes, in the General, calling it something that has been decided in smoke - filled back rooms. This smoke - filled back room, a respectable president, is the General Assembly; the Allied Assembly of Iceland, the legislature Meeting. However, it should not be that since the back room is not Valhalla, it is the highest. Minister not pleased? There are six presidents of six categories who do not accept the minister's hardline stand. That's what I want to ask you. The minister spoke of it, under a policy debate for short periods of time, when it was suitable for political goals, to reinvent parapolitic work in order to keep up with the development of foreigners. Now I would like to ask the minister if she still supports the idea that parapolitic work is the best approach in this language. [[The president calls.]] And then, where the minister says she hopes that the matter will not be resolved, if she is not a party at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u91	A respectable president. There is no hard-line policy that involves the arrival of the Minister of this seminary and the obvious problems, both obvious and not so limited to laymen. It's been pointed out here, and I've thought it was my duty, then problems. When I referred to the leading of this case, working on this bill, I did not think of it when I received the information that was originally assumed to be longer times than those mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2. Then, after some count and comparison to a specific case under the Management Board, it was agreed that this time limit might not have been necessary, but, for example, on Friday the time that any candidates would have been in this country was coming, so they would probably fall under this bill and get shelter from this bill. I'm asking, "What about the kids who come in here tomorrow after the bill is done?" What about them? Or the kids that are coming next week? What refuge are they to be given? Many may come from a more difficult situation than are children from Schengen State or other European countries. Who's going to pick up the question for them children? Who will?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u92	A respectable president. I may not have been clear enough in my questions. There's two of them. First, I asked the minister if she still feels that she was under the direction of the prime minister when she felt it was for the best of the case to guide him back into the direction of parapolitic work. She thought so. Maybe it's a different view now that she's free from the government, and she's in the process of an election, since it may be a hard-lining device that's more suitable for the backlands of the government. Minister. Second, I'd like to ask if the Minister will support his own chairman's agreement on the end of the council and thus this case will be resolved here. It would be nice to know if she would trust in paying that route through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u93	A respectable president. Of course, I feel the same way I was when I gave this talk after a discussion with a prime minister a few days ago. I have reason to believe that the next year the Parapolitic Committee will be active with the representatives of every group sitting in the General Assembly, who will be sitting at the General Assembly for the next semester. The committee to discuss this whole matter must be discussed. I think it's the one. Very necessary. And if I have the chance, I will, of course, follow it. As for the outworking of this matter, it may be clear to everyone who has listened to my speech that I will not support it. It has nothing to do with an agreement about the end of the council. My position is clear in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to take a little thought with the words of a acting minister of justice, but she spoke in her talk earlier, saying, "I'm going to go into the Constitution. " Now, I'm guessing that the Pirata's program is being referred to and agreed to accept the Constitution's modification directive on the program. An attempt to do so is to restore something very similar to that of last April. It is now all in it; to reenact a law once again in a constitution. The world did not perish as long as that law was active. It is similar with the need to correct minor irreparable faults of that law, e.g. According to Venice Commission. It's not supposed to be that complicated. It is still a month of election, full of time to discuss this matter and get the will of the council, but the council does not seem to be ready for it. I just wanted to make Ministers by these words: 'I'm going to bend over to the Constitution;' correct them if they apply to these changes in Pirata's schedule, and ask if I have had the right guess of acting as a justice minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u95	A respectable president. Yeah, that's actually what I meant. This expression, changing into a change, came up with a discussion about the vote on that matter. I've got to figure out what to do. A senator, too. I understand that it was not just a matter of reimbursement of an old arrangement that was temporary in the Constitution but of a significant change in the matter, which would have been called upon to receive a serious interracial treatment. This may not be about the matter that now is under discussion, but I think I have answered it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u96	A respectable president. Yes, we can discern how extensive these changes are. I think they're minor. This publication has been repeated on this change in the Constitution's directive at previous councils. There is plenty of information about this law. And as shown in earlier votes and reviews, Pirantars were quite ready to work toward compromise. However, we were not allowed to submit another bill that was closer to the law that flowed for some strange reason. But the question was, Would the council be willing to use the time and opportunity to complete this small step, which still has a powerful effect that changes in constitution could immediately be made during the next term, e.g. adapting the details of the Constitution's surrender.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u97	A respectable president. I have a complete understanding of that already. Councilmen burn for their affairs and seek the progress of their hearts. Some even come here to the council at the beginning of the term with one subject and burn in the skin; I'm not going to belittle those feelings. However, I pointed to this discussion of a change in constitution in the context of the change here, which has been proposed to bring about the alien law. I am not going to balance the change between foreigners and constitution, but it is a marvelous change in alien law that can have a profound effect on both those living here and just as it is for those who are looking here with a request for cover. I don't think there's any chance that such a matter will be handled in a matter of hours without any church treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u98	President. It is important to bear in mind that when the issues related to this preliminary law first came to our table at the General Assembly, the initiative of the United States was to take the initiative, at the same time. paritaprevir The Logi of Már Einarsson. It was suggested that two girls bring national rights because there was no other way to save them except the solution that has come to us today. I want to make this right, and I think it's very important to be sure that this transition will provide a haven for both girls. Of course, it is heavier than tears to know that this experiment will only save a few children fleeing. It's not that there's a full water of children on their way to Iceland. It's not that we can do these things faster, so people don't have to wait many years to get paid on their own. It is not that billions of dollars need to be paid, as the cost of the bill says. It's just bullshit. It shows a certain attitude that I feel very sad about. If we were to deal with what the bill is going to do, which is the time frame, which will likely be tried to resolve the situation more quickly, we just need to hire more people for work to resolve matters. It was said in the case of a local justice minister that the trial had become faster, which would simply have been because more staff were assigned to the decision - making committee. There are quite a few new employees at the Foreign Institute. I think it's so urgent to remember that this is just a short time. We do not take the whole matter into account permanently. It is always extremely difficult to stand here at a council saying that the next assembly should do this and that it is the sincere will of six categories, for we exactly have nothing to do with it. At any rate, I am happy that we can save anyone because every life is precious, including the life of children who flee, including precious life. It has been said in the case of a local justice minister that we do not have the necessary ◯isora to receive people who have gone through very difficult experiences. I think, first of all, that's not exactly true. Second, I believe that it is very simple to hire someone from abroad who has experience in working with this group of languages. It can't be the reason why we can welcome people in such a way that we can enjoy them. What is and has been the biggest problem, so you say it out loud, is simply the fact that it forms bottlenecks, and people from so - called safe lands have to wait a long time to get their affairs done. Fortunately, the majority of families are getting inside their communities and are soon able to become active. I've been working with and I've met a lot of trustees from the most amazing places in the world. I have met people of different religions, different colors, and ages. I'll never forget the first time I've ever met someone who's got a shelter. And they were all heaped up in a place called Fit, which is in Chefavík. The first person I met was a young boy from Iraq, 17 years old. He was referred to Greece, right into the street. We managed to get him back to Iceland, but it was a lot of work. There are sad stories behind everyone who comes and seeks refuge. Let us not forget that all nations can face very difficult situations. We faced a very difficult situation, even though they cannot be compared to the circumstances in which many live, such as the one in which we live. in Syria. Then a large number of Icelanders went to seek economic shelter in the neighboring nations. People fled Iceland to have a chance of a better life elsewhere. Let us bear in mind when we speak down to those whom some call tourists, which is just a absurd concept. I have many friends who have had to flee. I have many friends who are immigrants, who first came to the country as refugees. I've known them around the world. All these people I've known have become very important reforms for us Icelanders. We need more people. We bring in an enormous amount of people from other countries to do our job because there is such an increase, e.g. in the tourist industry. So, first of all, we need to make sure that we are able to welcome people and that they are not put on trial for months and years. When we act on such adjustments as this, which is a short period of time, it must be a clear message to the next council. There must be a clear message that all classes in this room unless the Independence Party is interested in securing a better standing and a better standing and welcoming more children away. That's the message I've received since today's discussion. In fact, the senators of the Annexe have taken up the steps to establish this matter in the same booth and in the affairs of the sheepfolds. It is so tiresome when the matter should always be taken in groups such as this. Refugees and other groups that have that shit in Iceland I want senators to remember that when I was growing up, there were no foreigners in Iceland, they almost didn't exist. Blacks could hardly be placed to work in the army. As far as I can remember, the old people and the poor people had it just as shit in Iceland then. There's nothing to do with foreigners that old people and cripples have that shit in Iceland. Let's just stop using these illustrations. We need more people in Iceland to do our job, to help build up this community of ours. There is nothing that calls for us to push people away who are in need and especially those who are children. How different it is that we are not yet in our existence when we consider the United Nations Children's Covenant! I remember that I had the privilege of making the first website for an executive of children and that I thoroughly studied the United Nations Children's Covenant and the human rights for children. It was 19 hundred ninety - nine years old and something. It's so surprising that we're still in that place, not only with kids running away, but with children in Iceland. We just have to get our shit together and start thinking about the distress many children face, and then kids run away. When you look at the statistics over what age combination is with those who are now running away in the world, especially those who come to Europe, a huge proportion of them are children. Only a fraction of that group comes to Iceland. It's like a microsecond in all of humanity's chronology how many people come here. It's not like there's gonna be some flood of refugees. It's just not like that. It is worth thinking about what you would like to do if your own children were in this position, to be left in refugee camps all over Europe for years. I don't know if many members of the council who have criticized the attempt to rescue a few refugees came to a refugee camp, such as Greece. I challenge the members of the council here who have criticized the attempt to save several men, to join Lesbos, and to work there only as volunteers among all the refugees who live under tragic conditions. Try it and come here and continue to criticize.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u99	Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this very far. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was very comfortable with the bill and the matter. Hv. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgitta, the daughter of Jónsdóttir, gave a very good and meaningful talk that did quite well. Of course, she brings up the basics when it comes to these things - human kindness and responsibility. It also mentions the wealth of this small country, this small nation in a large country, by bringing in new individuals, new residents. And most important, it introduces the sad fact that political groups, politicians, are going to knight themselves and try to feed a discussion about one person who is in distress at the expense of another who is in need. It's not only unpleasant, it's also wrong. Therefore, I hope that in the future, and after we have handled this case, the media will turn to all the candidates who actually have a chance to reach a Senate seat after the next election and ask out: What are your responses to these matters? Will you come to work on a change of foreigners who aim to be more humanitarian or are you going to build forts throughout Iceland and say, "This is dangerous our culture, dangerous our economy, and nourishing the fear of people in the campaign? We are discussing a matter that, of course, is the most important issue in all life, children. We are not talking about children who live with the equipment that we in this room can provide them, or most of the Icelanders. We are discussing children who come from situations that are beyond our reach and, more fortunately, recognize what is happening to us. At the beginning of the Senate, I gave a bill to give two girls and their families citizenship. For this, I was criticized by various things. It was called a people's jar. I direct it to the Fatherhouses because it was an emergency reaction. Although the bill was directly involved in only a few individuals, it was no less intended to send a clear message to the authorities about what the lawgiver intended. That children's rights are fully respected in taking control measures where their interests are at stake. A few of the debates have been presented here. The members of Congress, however, were at the approval of the alien law, and it would have been a measure of disappointment for them to see that this message is not fully understood. Then the Council shall have but one remedy, to speak plainly. That's what's being done. At the top of the call. The Minister of Justice on the cooperation of all classes to change the alien law in this year, which she certainly mentioned in the policy debate and was good in this case, for in the Constitution that it placed a few days before the conference was given, there is nothing about it. But that's good. Then a minister has responded. This shows that it was necessary to set this matter on schedule. Another matter is, however, that it was not necessarily shared among members of the council. Although the Union, the Piratars, and the left green were in the case, many members of the council found it better to go other ways, i.e. to change the foreigners'laws, to make better rights, and to do so in a general way, based on transparency and equality. I can totally agree with that point of view. Of course, it's always best. But at this speed of time, it did not work. Instead, it is beginning to make some preliminary changes that will hopefully provide additional security for some children until a new council meets, which will hopefully be made up of forces based on human rights and humanity. Mr. President. However, I am concerned about this bill and the direct approach to the welfare committee to cover it very well and to beg that there is no danger to those to whom the law applies. V.E.G. One minister asked earlier, " What about the children who come tomorrow or the other day? ' Well, a few of us in here, a couple of council members, have at least given a clear message that we want to change it after the election. Well, I guess she wants them to walk into the environment today, and she thinks it's satisfying. It's not acceptable to me to know. That is why it is urgent for Congress groups to be selected based on the humanity I spoke about. It is unfortunate that children's safety has become the center of political debates or exchanges in a discussion, at any rate a threat of exchange for talks. Because I know deep down, of course, that no one is interested in risking a child's life. At least I hope not. But I think we should finally remember that our conduct with children may be the most clear standard we have in what sort of community we are in, despite everything. With those words, I declare that I support this bill, hoping that it will go through safely and safely and that we will get as much together after the election as possible and make the needed improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u100	A respectable president. It is evident from the case of the local Justice Minister that she feels sympathy for members of Congress with children who were to refer to the uncertainty and response to the unjust treatment they have received indiscriminately. Similarly, it is impossible for the public to call for justice in these matters to cause the prefects to find temporary relief at the end of the council and to oversee the unskilled methods of shipping, which are not in conflict with the minister's reality. Finally, she offered a perfectly irresponsible list of enormous expense items that could be caused by this bill. For this reason, it is only right to say right from the start that members of Congress as well as others should guard against the fear - inspiring propaganda that I feared would be the control of this discussion. Why? Because of the memos here passed among members of the Parliament on the risk of a massive increase in refugees, extreme and barbaric costs, as well as the destruction and increased stress on the staff of the National Institute of Iceland for the bill. Honorable senators. That argument is nonsense, and just fear propaganda. It is quite clear that this is all being done except to promote the rights of those who have already applied for international protection in this country. To promote their right to material treatment. It doesn't include those who come below. So there's talk and talk that there's a stream of refugees coming from a rumor of an all-time rule in Iceland just half-manner bullshit and panic propaganda. This, however, is another patch that hopefully leads to the good conclusion that these children will be sheltered. This bill is still no assurance of that, for it simply says that the rights of the children who have been so far in the discussion to obtain their case in the material treatment of the Foreign Institute, an organization that has already proved beyond any doubt that it is to be overlooked by the United Nations Children's Covenant, by the United Nations refugee Convention and by the European Convention of Human Rights, in its effort to refer to most of those who come here for international protection from the land. I find it sad, indeed, that we fear taking a fair share with the national community when it comes to the welcome of refugees. Iceland takes a very small number of people compared to other countries, and we misuse the Dublin Protocol ever again to shoot us out of our responsibility in these substances. Iceland is a member of President NATO who is highly responsible for the situation of the extraordinary numbers of people who have had to flee their homes because of war and persecution. But we cannot think of taking responsibility for our actions by making laws that will be accepted by people who have suffered irreparably grief over the actions of this world's largest military alliance in recent years. We can't think of that. Instead, some members of the council later complained that about a thousand souls were searching here every year and asking for cover. This number is simply a joke when it is placed in an international context. This bill is really shameful. Shameful for how close it is, how hard it is for children to run away, for what they had to fight hard in closed rooms to get at least to put this matter on the schedule. But here it is on the schedule, and here we will discuss this minimal, temporary, small legal provision. And all we can do is agree with this matter, we do not want to be judged in history for having exactly no conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u101	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a traveling overseer for his history and thank the presidents of almost every category at the General Assembly for having been on this bill. I certainly support this case, but at the same time, I regret that there was no further way to protect families and children who seek refuge here. I'm sorry that this bill has not been accepted that before the decision is made and for children, the National Institute of the U.S.A. is to consult with the Child Welfare. I am also sorry that the program program program could not be scheduled for which. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson to provide two girls and their families with a particularly delicate position of citizen's rights. I'm concerned that although this good bill may be legal, it will not guarantee fair treatment for them and other children in the same situation, even if they can request a re-imburse the NTSB committee's decision. Although their case may be reactivated, they have no guarantee that this time the government will respect, for example. United Nations children's covenant. It seems that the Foreign Institute operates in mysterious ways. I'm afraid this bill is not enough to make things right. Therefore, it would have been good to be able to provide these families with national rights so that they would be safe while the government tries to legalize the problem. Although the United Nations Children's Organization has been legalized in 2013, five years ago, it is still under attack by governments. In the 3rd. The United Nations Children's Covenant, with permission of presidents, says: ▪ All decisions or measures made by the competent authorities should be based on the best interests of children. Laws and rules should be set that ensure the protection and care required for children. Iceland is a member of this treaty and has a clear responsibility according to it. Member States are to provide children with the rights of the children's covenant. What needs to be done, and I suggest that it be done immediately during a new term, is setting up a plan that includes quitting the Daffen Rule to send out the trustees and children from the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u102	Madam President. When there's a national festival in the island, and we can't move people to the island because it's said something, it's just pulled away by identifying a new sea space, which is clearly in order to get away with people for a celebration. That's okay. If people disagree that some way cannot lie in the way they want, they offer a bill that they can lie in a certain way. No one suddenly notices that it is opening a pandobox that will not be shut again. But when it comes to sending children out of the country, and some people are not happy about it, there must be no legal intervention or some form of concern. That's not possible. Of course, all our laws are always directed under circumstances and possibly by the feelings they create. This is not just because people respond to the news by making laws about them on specific news. They respond to news and change the law so that the legal situation in the land reflects their moral sense. That is what happened in this case, and there are other examples there. Here people speak as if they were running up to and up to their feet just to deal with some beautiful picture of children. But what was the first subject we were discussing today? We were having a hard time talking. That's what's been going on. It was so planned that we're actually putting in half the bill, half the bill because the second part of the bill is not ready. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It'll just come later. It is not a matter of taking action like this or anything else that we have reacted in this way. But when it comes to protecting children, we put our finger down. Then you must say stop here and no more. I just want to talk about the origin of the bill that's being discussed here. As often before, when any group of people - whether members of the council or the general public - do not like the laws in the country, there are some suggestions on how to deal with them. There was one suggestion to give the people on the civil rights. There were many prime signs to deal with this subject. One of them was a bill that the revered and the Bears of the future, along with some of the Piranites, saw that the environment and the alien law had been taken into consideration by the children of the United Nations covenant. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson had an excellent bill that was about to bring back a small sentence that was taken out of the days of the foreigners during the last assembly, with a set of requirements that would apply to people in a particularly delicate position. Then it was decided to try, or so I thought, to build all these different bills so that men could get along for something. Of course, that's gotta be said to be the highest. A minister of judicial hearings to commend her that she has never had her opinion on this matter; she may never have been specifically resolved when it came to solve this particular matter. She wants to protect the legal environment as it is, but there were other senators, members of other categories, but also of her group, who were working on this work, I thought, to reach a common conclusion, not as flies on the wall or as audiences, but that they were working on this case in order to reach mutual conclusions. At least that was how I appreciated it when I attended a meeting with my council leader and other council members and representatives of other classes. They represented the Independence Party and were the highest. The Speaker, who led that meeting. I imagined that we were there to find a common conclusion that we could all accept. Here, indeed, is the smallest possible agreement of all the ideas written on it. But despite the fact that this member is extremely small in my opinion, he doesn't even seem to have enough to accept it from the Independence Party. In view of the fact that we are going to a campaign, I am disappointed and anxious. I'm worried that this is some kind of separate device. I was hoping that we could agree to resolve this matter together. The solution given here is not a solution that will guarantee that the Icelandic government will respect the children's covenant, as has been pointed out by many authorities that the current law does not fully, not produce the current one. It's not just some galoons who have claimed it. It is not addressed to the systematic problem that appears to be that these matters are not sufficiently taken into account in children's rights. No, it's just some small, specific thing being resolved. It's a very temporary arrangement. That is why I am disappointed that the people I thought had boarded this job in order to have a full share in it cannot even agree to this very moderate compromise that we have learned. It's a strange negotiation technique, I think, of wanting to communicate, but it can't even agree to the compromise itself. I admit that I had some expectations of working with foreigners in my season. Many of them did not directly come to the matters of the trustees or matters that are so often in the news. I think there's a lot to do to make Iceland a nice country to all who want to come here for any reason, not just in trouble, but just because they have the passion to move to Iceland. There were some things I had planned to put forward. I hope I have the opportunity to continue with that work. One of them is e.g. to increase the right of children in that children can always stick with their parents who have legal rights here. That's not the way it is today. The children of students cannot easily accompany their parents to the country, not if they are BS students. Children who are temporarily employed here cannot, etc. This is something I think we should fix. Second cases are the rights of experts. It had begun working to ensure that people from all countries could come on a specialised basis, that they granted higher authority to humans. There was a matter in the Government Constitution where it was hoped that the social and equality minister could present such a bill next spring, but unfortunately it will not be the case at this time. Third, I'd like to mention one thing that I think is an opportunity that we don't have enough, especially when it comes to all the countries that people talk about often coming from, and sometimes mention that they do it without a special legitimate purpose. It's called contracts, youth contracts. There is a source of foreigners to negotiate with other countries, where people of the age of 18 are expected to come to the country, become acquainted with culture and nation, country, and nation. As far as I know, Iceland hasn't made a deal like this. This is certainly a state minister's authority to work with and look particularly at these perimeters from where many of these people come. Sadly, though, the work in this ideal period has been more often than not a matter of shouldering various rules, filling in various gaps to prevent too many people from coming here on false grounds, such as. with a change in foreigners' law, the continuation of proper effects, etc. I'm sorry to say that all the hard work humans bring is permanent, but humanity is more often than temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek before the speech and agrees that it's important that we do our job well. This is not a project that we will complete with this bill. It will likely be one of the major projects of a new council or new members during a new season. However, I would be interested in hearing of an idea that took place. A senator described and his expectations for further changes that lead to the alien law and also as new as professional. I don't intend to run back to Congress, but I know why. A senator is interested in doing so, and hopefully he will succeed as best of all. I would be interested to ask about the senator's list of changes in the alien law, for I could agree with everything he mentioned in his list. Would it make sure that we can adopt a comparable arrangement and be recognized in Canada so that individuals or a free group could accept the cost and responsibility of a refugee reception? That's where I think the criteria are about ten parties. There was a very interesting study in the New York Times on the experience of the Canadian arrangement that has been received at the same time. It's given us a lot of opportunity to have that way. Could this be one of the points we would consider so that we could continue helping refugees?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u104	Thank you so much for the counterweight. The ideas I mentioned that turned to jobs were, of course, based on a Canadian route. Then we were thinking of having a list of jobs so that those who were employed on that list would be better able to obtain housing, as well as that children and their mates who receive a special license could get a much more secure residence permit than is offered today. The ideas as hell. A senator mentioned was not a part of that package, just to be said, but I like it. I might wish to make them mine in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u105	A respectable president. I'm very happy to hear that. I know why. A senator has closely followed his ideas and interests. I really hope that we see changes in the spirit of that which had. A senator here talks about. We found it when we were making changes during the last term of the foreigners that the bandorm was involved. There was also a change in the law on employment rights. In fact, it was the part that everyone agreed to make changes. In particular, the career life was rejoicing that there was an increased potential for people with certain knowledge to come to this land. Similarly, there was an increasing potential for young people to do the same. I know the State Department's been looking into it. At any rate, there was a chance of looking at ◯working today's agreements with Japan and China. It is very sad in my opinion that treaties have not been made, as most countries around us have. I think it'll be very helpful for everyone to have a chance to go somewhere else to work. This is a mutual agreement, and Iceland has a chance to go to that country and people from these countries have a chance to come here and get to know Iceland. However, this arrangement involves refugees. This is a new way to invite people who are now in a refugee camp in countries with pressures, such as the case. Lebanon, to come here to the land. In many parts of the community, individuals who have a great need and a desire to help others may join in promising to care for the progress of these individuals in the time when it takes for people to get their feet, work, and adapt to Icelandic society. I really hope that this will at least be one of the changes in the alien law that men look at during a new term.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u106	A respectable president. I thank you again for this wonderful idea. I'll take a good look at it and make it smaller. Just to mention that in the past, which was mentioned regarding the childhood trades then, I had started an investigation into the agreements we were making and contracts that we had made around us. I planned to discuss that with the minister of foreign affairs in a special discussion if there had been time. So I can make the senator happy and sad, not being caught, but hopefully afterward. My opinion is that when we do, for example. free business agreements in the future are not only to watch goods, but also to watch people. We're here to ensure that these contracts contain regulations, for example that there is no need for visas and that it is safe for young people in that country to go between on the basis of contracts, such as those mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u107	A respectable president. I wrote a talk, and I'm going to stand here and talk positively. Though I have swallowed a lot of pride, I listened to the minister of Justice, and now I will speak for myself. I've been taken to a fool. This case could've blown this government up too, I say right here, right now. I'm really sorry. I trust that my secular work would be met with respect. Showing respect from other members of the council in this hall, my friends in wood construction, but at the highest level. The minister of justice showed me here that I was not allowed to show up with respect. And the work I've put forward to compromise for a bill submitted because of civil rights which had not been the best example in these matters was unrecognized. My work was unappreciated. Now let me go to the speech I wrote. I want to thank the senators who spoke before me. They explained much about our situation. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek explained the situation very well. This is a provision for temporary adjustments in the laws of foreigners, No. 80/2016, court treatment time. By agreeing to this temporary change, we will reduce the uncertainty of children who have applied for international protection from the law and who have not already left the country. The case we will vote for is the result of important compromises or negotiations that have lasted for some time following the bill to civil rights. It is our job at the Council, or rather our duty as elected agents, to bring such matters to an end. I think we have. Coordinates submitted to compromise had another name: Cells to correct a change in the law of foreigners, No. 80/2016, the interests of children. Because that's what matters, that's the interests of the children. That bill would have reached a broader group and would have given a particularly sensitive position as a special situation in which Dublin was to be dealt with for material treatment. This would have made sure that what was best for a child would be guided by the Order of Dublin, i.e. children's issues, including families, as well as better understanding agreements with their children's authorities, material management, time and nature. Sadly, though, it is a task that awaits us at the next assembly to make that change despite my desire to solve it now. That's what I've said, and I've smiled at my comrades in the Independence Party. I'm sorry. But it's not a bill that's in our way now. Today, I'm here to celebrate the acceptance of the changes involved here, we will include several more children and families who are awaiting uncertainty. We will be able to take care of equality, though there is only so much to do at this time. I would like to emphasize how important it is that we continue working to reduce uncertainty. I've said with great confidence that we're heading there, and we're moving on with this and finding a better way to be proud of ourselves, Icelanders, and the positive examples we're going to set for this class. I'm sorry. I'm a little emotional. It's very emotional for all of us. The purpose of the legislation on foreigners was to fulfill our obligation to ensure an even greater harmony in Icelandic law with the United Nations Children's Covenant. There is a law on connection and harmony with the children's covenant. But something went wrong with the project that told us when we got to a meeting at work. The General and Education Committee to interpret these laws and their implementation failed to achieve their objective. How to Be a God of Peace, No. 80/2016, went into effect on 1 January 2017. In a paper with a bill that became the law No. 80/2016 points out that this puts special emphasis on child rights and reforms. These include: Special precautions in children's rights according to international commitments and definitions of what is best for a child. The application of the law has shown that there is certain uncertainty about the interpretation of their terms in terms of assessment of child's best interests, including children. on the basis of the applicant's return for international protection based on Regulation No. 604/2013 and considering if a child should be protected internationally in this country. I really hope that people realize that subjects related to international protection are issues that we will work on for a long time. It's not finished with this bill. Based on statistics from the United Nations Refugee Organization, all over 62 million people are fleeing. Of these, 12.7 million are defined as children or individuals below 18 years of age. I believe that the need for us to travel to the future of this class and that our laws are clear to ensure both humanity, equality, and not least reflect our responsibility as part of the international community and, more often, our moral obligation to help protect those who need it, so I use the words of the highest degree. Minister of Justice; people in real need. At a meeting this afternoon, the request was prepared for a state accountant's report on the management of the European Commission. I'm one of the senators who thinks such a report is needed. It will support policy. This is where we asked the highest level. Minister of Justice whether we felt that something was wrong. This is illustrated by the preparation of this report. I also believe that it is very important that a parapolitic committee, which was always the will of the Lawgiver, be arranged by the General Assembly. This is shown in a paper when the law was accepted. If this committee had been active, we might not be here discussing these individuals. Maybe things would have worked out better. Perhaps there would have been increased confidence between groups in the government of that time. I wrote a lot under the speeches of other senators. But there was one thing I wanted to touch only where I have strong feelings about it. It's about something heavier than tears. That was my experience. When I looked at children in my eyes, familyless children at a home in Greece, children in a refugee camp that was a serious emergency, that when I came home to the country and embraced my own children who were safe, I would do everything I could to help with these legislation and that we Iceland, the Icelandic people, would put their heads high and proud of the treatment we would give to people who are applying for international protection. But today, I will be glad that we've got a compromise on these two families and a few more and a few more to answer the community for the subjects that have been discussed. But I still have the expectation that the example of this decision has the value of considering refugees' issues based on humanity and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u108	A respectable president. We have here a group of subjects that are particularly sensitive. He is not just sensitive because those involved are individuals who are more sensitive. It is hard to imagine that a situation could be worse than that of the world in absolute distress and that there would be no return because of war or resolution in their homeland. I'm just going to say this in the beginning that I understand that in discussing these matters, there are a lot of feelings in which the laws themselves, the alien law, show that we feel for those who need to take refuge in international security away from home. In other words, there is some sort of nuclear issue in the legislation. Unfortunately, in our part of the world, on the other side of the European economy, war has raged. It's called upon all the elves before an unknown pressure and subject of magnitude that we've never seen on the face. Senators from the Council have attended the home of a refugee camp. The government has placed more money than ever before in order to help. We've taken home what's in the technical field called the cryonics. So we've opened the street here to Iceland for people who come straight from a refugee camp. We have also increased financial support directly to help, and we have sent others on the scene to assist in improving living conditions and conditions. Then, in Iceland, we've had to react because international protection applications in Iceland have grown dramatically. We have had to respond by improving our ability to deal with these issues. I would allow me to say that we at the Council have also had to be quick to learn, put us into this party, understand what we're dealing with. For this reason, during the last term it was considered necessary to establish a transnational committee led by the opposition to government, if there is something called a government and a legal conflict like this. From that work all the changes that were supposed to be meant to fall and were, in our opinion, to ensure a more rapid trial, but in this category, it is for my own personal rights that we can give quick answers. We have experienced similar developments in Iceland and have become part of other neighboring countries, i.e. There have been an increasing number of applications in Iceland each year. There are more issues this year than last year, more than the year before, etc. This has brought us many challenges. This is something people know about in this room. Now, in Iceland, we can't set up our own rules regardless of what we're talking about in neighboring countries. So we've chosen a way that when we come up with the question of what criteria we should set for such applications that we have entered international cooperation on it. In a sense, it is a bit inhuman to say that there is one rule for all and for all. However, this is so that we have had international cooperation on how to handle these issues and the criteria to set, e.g. the conditions in the country where the application is agreed. After this type of work, we've been working all along. I think it was a good agreement at the council. This is a rule of order. that a principle exists, applications are supplied in which the individual has been introduced in the Member States first. A very large proportion of the issues that are familiar with public discussions in Iceland and are being discussed here at the council, that is exactly the kind of case, i.e. There is a debate over the principle that a case should be settled, since the person's first attitude has been within the territory. I think it might be rather sobering to consider that we have become part of the conference that we might want to abandon such basics into the trial. I feel that in the case discussed here, it is suggested that we are ready to adopt the principle of review and that even in this country, the other physical treatments should be carried out, although we are part of the Dublin Convention and so far, considering that the right of the individual is guaranteed by the international cooperation that we have been involved in. This is what I feel is a need for completely independent and special opinion. I have also felt that it was consistent at the council up to now that in the case of such a massive problem as here as where people want to solve it or approach it, let's say, the problem underlying by coordinated action has been understood that the criteria for handling the individual cases are very different from that of one State to another. It's a delicate debate because it's about a million refugees, and it's estimated that only 10% of those who really want to get out of their homes are on the move. The 90% others have not yet trusted themselves, because of some reasons they have not trusted on the trip. However, it is believed that there has been a general agreement that it is obvious that people will look to the source if the rules, the material rules for the treatment of matters, differ from those in general, in this case, in the countries involved in the Council of Dublin. When we consider the matter discussed at the General Assembly today as to what it may be in need of revision, we cannot overlook the fact that nothing has happened in a material discussion of the matter today that says we are doing wrong. It is merely asking for an opinion. These issues are originally started on the agenda because of certain specific issues, which are not yet fully met by the Icelandic government in the sense that judicial rights have been tested. What I am here to say is that I think it is absolutely necessary for us at council to try to maintain the solidarity so far and to describe in the law that was last approved at the Council, across all classes, that we respect specific principles in this category, criteria that take into account the international cooperation we are in and must also agree that the Council is in its rules and the Commission is in harmony with the rules. That's basic. If we take off the path of reexamination of individual findings in the management system, I think we can cause such uncertainty about how things work in this series that it can lead to disaster. It is not trivial to talk about these matters in the Practician language, may I say, practical suggestions on how to deal most effectively with all these matters because just as the last speaker went away to be real people involved. In this case, in the most recent discussion, there are not just people but children and in many cases unsupervised children. The reality of the Icelandic government in general is that the vast majority of applications for asylum in Iceland are derived from countries where we, Iceland, and all of our partners have come to the conclusion that countries are not in danger. Therefore, the main outcome in the majority of cases is that you should not agree to an asylum application. Nevertheless, we have built up a somewhat powerful government government, and we have devoted much energy and money to careful handling of the situation in every case. It is also obvious in the international cooperation we have engaged in that there are sadly an amazing number of people who are in poor economic terms trying to find a gap in the humanitarian system of Iceland and in our cooperation countries. The laws and regulations, the administrations, the assemblies of people who live in distress, who are on the run because they cannot live in their homes, the whole system has been built to welcome these people. I've never met any senator after a dime in this suit to do good with those who actually live in that situation. We are proud to be able to welcome such ones. We're putting a lot of energy together with rural society and all the others who come to that class to help people settle down here and adapt well to society, in exactly the same way as we're inviting people to Iceland. But we must at the same time accept that there is a relatively incredible number of applications for asylums in Iceland that are on the system case without any cause. When we solve that problem, we need to recognize that if we do not do so, it will weaken our ability to accept properly the more sensitive, the more vulnerable people are to help them to adjust to society and to resolve their affairs quickly and safely. This is the cold reality of this group. As we plan to place more money, put more people behind it, to work things that do not really have within all established international standards the right to come to the country as trustmakers, as we put more power in it, the more we reduce our ability to handle matters that we agree to do. These are some of the general viewpoints I would like to promote during the discussion because I feel it is very emotional. That makes sense to me. The laws are actually made because we're human. We feel sorry for these people. The other side, the other side of this painting, turns to the fact that we can do this properly. [[The president calls.]] We live in such a way that we really achieve the purpose that was set out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u109	Mr. President. A fellow minister begins to agree on these matters, and we should not compromise our stand on these matters. He rightly points out that this is a major emotional matter that should be dealt with with with with extreme caution. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Prime Minister, what does he mean by solidarity? Does he mean, with a solid agreement, as he referred to at the meetings of the older lndependence Association, by the permission of a president, that Icelanders have to use strict rules to ensure that we do not get over a million refugees, and even adopt a system where people are not allowed into the country without visas? Is a minister speaking of solidarity against that? Does he feel that this is true? Does the agreement not also reflect on the need to use caution when speaking to people who come here and sit here? Was it not dangerous for a prime minister to talk about the never unarmed police in Venidenes? Was it not dangerous to speak, playing on the feelings of people in this group? Wasn't that right? Is there a concordat on such a case during this council? At the end: Is there a agreement at this council that the prime minister of the nation is talking about a bad way to provide the Icelanders, who certainly received the Icelandic citizenship? Was not the prime minister speaking to the Icelanders there? Where is the prime minister guarding his emotions in this regard? How does he not play with people's feelings? Where is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u110	Mr. President. When I referred to a solidarity, I gave this particular example that we have recently adopted since the Council agreed to reform the legislation common to all classes. The last thing the senator mentions, which is the Civil Rights I personally supported, is an example that we failed to handle in a natural way. It is an example that here at the legislation meeting meet meet meet meets directly from the management system by the European Commission. I think it's unnatural. I don't think it's a good example in general that things that don't get approved in the administration system, i.e. if shot to the council for continued treatment. Or does the senator think that we should have some sort of appeal system for the council of this issue? I don't think that's a good example. That's still my opinion. For visas. We have one recent example that the European Union has made a pact with Georgia regarding unauthorized travel from Georgia into the European Union. Now, in the field of cooperation of these specific matters here, it is totally undisputed that the listlessness has been abused for the trustees. It's just a fact, and it was discussed. We need to be realistic about this. This is an example of the need to ask ourselves: " Do I need to continue applying visas to help me cope with an increase in the number of unprovoked applications? In exactly the same way that the Swedes, who have had the most liberal rules on these matters, recognized that they were unable to handle the problem and received autographs on the bridge between Denmark and Sweden. [[The president calls.]] They've done the same. We have not yet come to that position, but we cannot look away if such circumstances might arise in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u111	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister wants to know if I like the proposal that the council would become some sort of government appeal tool. Of course, I don't think it's an end. It's not a normal government. On the other hand, when it is obvious that the lawgiver's will is not respected as it should be in the administration, when it is obvious that law code is wrong, when it is obvious that injustice will occur if the lawgiver does not react. V.E.G. However, the prime minister did not react to my question about whether it would be unwise to play with people's feelings to talk about the possibility that the police will never be unarmed in Venidenes, where some of the trustees were at home. It's under the roof. Is that not the case with the prime minister? On what does he base his statements? I have noticed from the sources of the people responsible for this party that there were no reports of the police giving it that it does not go unarmed at Venidenes, which has been shut down many months ago. So I don't understand this whole thing, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: Where did he get this statement from? Is he not playing on people's fears when he uses these in a talk among his members?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u112	A respectable president. Right away. A senator comes up here and says that it is obvious that the counsellor's will is not respected in some case, so why doesn't the senator come to some adjustment that conforms to the rules of law that are being violated, where he is going against the counsel's will? But there's no such thing as this before the council. There is no suggestion that any principle is changed. On the contrary. This is a statement that says: It will be discovered whether or not the Lawgiver's will is being followed. Of course, this presentation does not hold any conclusions. Not only can you come up here but you can say that this is a key case that will consider the rules of the subject to be reviewed and, however, that everything will be discovered sometime later. It's either. It was very clear in this case that changes in the rules are not being measured when it comes to handling these matters in the management system. Regarding how the shelterers have been, what the situation has been, I just have to say, just the way it is, that I've been pretty sad. I've found it hard to see people waiting in doubt. They are very bad examples of those who have been rooted, even having children in Iceland, forming family ties, starting school, starting school, if I could just finish those seconds I have - even taking root here in another way - that the very existence of such people would be torn up in the background. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [["Answer the question...]] [[The president calls.]] This is why we have agreed at the council that it had to, and that was the main purpose of the law we agreed on last time, to speed up the trial. What I'm pointing out is that we are here discussing these matters without even one matter of matter. We're just shooting this thing a little bit. It's a little bit like kicking the problem first. Those who speak here with the greatest emotional intensity do not mention one point that has failed since the last legalization. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We who have doubts about this bill also have feelings for these people. [[The president calls.]] We just want to emphasize that all matters are handled with equality, fairness, and in harmony with the commitments we have made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u113	The president asks why. speakers showing respect for the times left by prisoners.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u114	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister offered a general discussion on the matter. I'm thinking about accepting his offer. You see, I was also going to ask about the meeting as well. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir asked in and out. Despite having more than enough time for a talk, the prime minister refused to comment. I'd like to repeat a question. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir: Is at the top. If not tested, would it be okay to talk about the police not going to Videnes? It's under the roof. The prime minister that he can speak this way in his position? I'd like to ask the highest, too. In the morning newspaper's report of a controversial meeting of the older Independence Association, the prime minister asked him about the expense of the trustees. It quotes prime minister by permission of the president: ▪ It's hard for me to look after those vast sums of money that are going into this business. I'd like to ask the highest. In this regard, the prime minister mentioned earlier that he felt quite sad to see the situation, what it would have been like, and how it would have been necessary to speed up a trial. How does it work together to find it difficult to look at these vast sums of money that are going into the matter and at the same time want to get used to it rapidly? I'm waiting for the highest. The prime minister of the longest words is now simply answering the question, but he does not place long talks on what I should be offering or some imaginary debate over something that is not being asked about here. I'm simply asking in the words of the highest. The prime minister he arranged for a hearing. He must be a man to live up to those words and answer for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u115	A respectable president. At the time, I was told that this was the situation in Videnes, who is no longer employed, that because of a security situation in that area, the police had to be prepared for everything. That's just the way it is. I don't know why. A senator wants you to keep it just for himself or if the matter simply doesn't tolerate that discussion. That's just the way it is. Regarding the funds that go to this party, I noted in my speech earlier that I do not regret a single cent of this group of cases, which starts to put people in shelter, which is a humane treatment of applications, the speed of the trial, guarantees a sure adjustment to society, get people to help in a refugee camp, pick up people there in the hostilities. I don't regret a dollar. I feel that we Icelanders have a lot of responsibilities as one of the nations where the world's highest national product is so privileged that when it comes to the refugee problem we see today, we should be proud to do our part. However, when it comes to a flood of unprovoked shelters from secure states, which in a short time can pick up workers in the administrations where we have been treated for a long time, the amount of food and shelter in matters that were predicted to end with evaporation will be left to me. [[Up front.]] I'd rather have seen them go to the first part of the business, helping these people adapt, promoting Icelandic education, helping them get on their feet in Iceland, in Icelandic society. It is about this that the law directly converted that we agreed on last time to speed up the trial so that neither time, money, nor human rights were offered in the treatment of these cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u116	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for making clear my questions. It's interesting to hear the highest. A minister speaks of his desire to place extra money on the speed of a trial. Not that long ago, a bill was put in here for financial purposes. I don't know any better than that the U.S. National Institutes and needs are not met to speed up the situation. Why is this desire expressed? The Minister's not on the budget? V.E.G. A minister asks if he should keep the situation to himself as if he was told that it was a matter of months ago but as it were. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir came in here, the site has been shut down as the highest. The minister referred to it. No, I don't expect the highest. Minister keep things quiet. But I expect the highest. A minister may hear his words, that he is not speaking into his inner core of a support group, and that he harbors fear without cause. It surprises me as the highest. In his speech, a minister surprised him that there were some who were wondering if these matters were right here on the land by always using a Dublin convention, which seemed to have come to the top. A surprise minister. I remember hearing a discussion about it at the Council, not just during this terms and the last, but even before. It's been a discussion that's been going on for some time. V.E.G. A minister has not watched carefully enough if this surprises him. Iceland, by the way, is never the first stop. So many have asked themselves, " Is it true that Iceland is always using the Dublin Convention for itself, what is the responsibility of Iceland when refugees are often fleeing from conflict, even a conflict that Iceland has supported, including the highest possible responsibility? ' Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u117	There was hardly much left in this later situation. Senator. [[Up front.]] There's a question about whether funding support the lawsuit I've held here. Let's just watch the budget work. There's never been a budget for the Foreign Institute or the NTSB to promote the quickest case, it's never been. Perhaps there would be some basic reason why. A senator if the government had held matters in such a way that funding for these important institutions was stopped. We've never been that way. [[Up front.]] We have always guaranteed the money that has been needed to ensure the best course of action. There are no other examples. So all this talk about budgeting and handling is ridiculous. Then there's a whole different debate, and it has nothing to do with the bill here before the council what the responsibility of Iceland is generally seen. Hv. A senator begins to talk about some particular war that Iceland had no direct involvement in. [[Up front.]] I recall the impending air raids against Syria, and the left government was here, so she did not move or help at the NATO Ministerial Conference when the matter was addressed, causing quite a riot in this council. If that's what it's like. A senator recalls what that was like a few years ago. [[Up front.]] It's so far out here, far beyond the material. In my own case, I have been calling attention to a matter that appears to be taking on some physical issue, but it is not just a matter of matter to be found in the matter, and it is actually followed by the statement that it will come to the realization whether some material change will come about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u118	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from September 26, 2017 or later, if necessary. A respectable president. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u119	A respectable president. I ask respect for this comment so late. One kindly observation of a convention assembly of 63rd gr. says, with permission of the president: A general political debate is to be held in the latter part of Congress. I was just wondering if there would be a political debate, a kitchen discussion, at the end of this council, or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-09-26-6.u120	This law has generally been interpreted as spring.
