ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 339, on the basis of purchased data, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u2	There's been a letter from Vilhjálmur Árnason's 5th. South, and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, 6. Smoke. So, that they can't do Congress in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly, who was used by the Kristín daughter of Traustadóttir and Knútsdóttir Krutsdótttir. Knútsdóttir have already been investigated and approved by the Kristín daughter of Traustadóttir and His Hildur, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly and therefore have to sign their vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u3	Kristín Traustadóttir and Knútsdóttir Krutsdóttir have signed their pledge to the Constitution and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u4	Madam President. We're here to verify the state account in 2015. Since I wasn't at the council last week, when this was discussed, I want to thank the chairman of the Board of Directors for completing this case with the entire committee. As we know, there was a breakdown in certain institutions of an agreement that we made with this year's budget now. The committee agreed that in order to avoid the loss of services in certain institutions, there was a specific procedure for delinquency beyond what is done at all times. At the same time, this also confirms that many of these institutions have been overcrowded. This does not apply just to health institutions. Medical insurance is year after year in a crisis that has already appeared to us in the current budget year. The same can be said of the county office, some of which have been at odds with unity and the police, who have not been strengthened by increased pressures for many years. However, it is also important to find a way to reward those organizations whose business is within the authority to encourage continued good business. With new laws on public finance, a minister's responsibility to the institutions that they hear is refined, but now the work and supervision of the legal committee are being passed on to the new laws on public finance, and I certainly hope that we succeed in our best efforts in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u5	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. Happy birthday. Today and yesterday, the ban has been a cause for rejoicing throughout the country and throughout the world. Iceland has now been opened to free markets for individuals, businesses, and pensions in currency. Iceland is now back on international financial markets. The media in the country and outside notices careful and flimsy practices that we decommission the capital crisis, and experts are opening up a voice of good news. It was fun yesterday to announce that Iceland has been shaken off the last link of the crash and it will be a happy day tomorrow when the changes have become meaningful after the formal release of the Government News. Businesses, individuals, and pension funds can now move funding to and from the country without limits. There remains a limit to the kind of predictability that originally created the snow hanger, i.e. big-scale waxing business. As soon as the words of the ensued, it was determined to be temporary. First, they were to stay for two years, but they were not able to eliminate them at that time, and repeatedly their decommissionation has proved to be more difficult than expectations. During this milestone, we do well to ask, " Is there no room for instability in this situation? ' To answer, 2017 is not new in 2007. The banking system is much smaller than a decade ago, individuals and businesses have paid off debts, but at that time they collected debts. Economics agree that the nation's economy is now much stronger than it is then. Travel services, roads, and the variety of innovations have increased exports now, rather than the hollow banking system, which covered all of it in 2007. The financial system now enjoys an entirely different kind of rule, with a lower risk and more transparency. And we continue on that course, here at the General Assembly, is a lively discussion of the future of the banking system, and I have recently appointed a group to discuss a number of opinions that will be considered there. When I entered the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I again ordered a management board on the release of seagulls, who work under the direction of the secretary of finance. The first meeting of the new committee was January 31, but five meetings have all been held on the committee. The committee stressed making knots so that it could be completed quickly. In speech and literature, I have stressed that the removal of the head would be as soon as possible, but it was always an important factor to stress that the economic system could not be compromised. More than two weeks ago, some fundes with a affront asked for a meeting with representatives of the Federal Bank and indicated that at the meeting they would offer an offer to sell their shares to the bank. I thought it proper to inform the leaders of all classes immediately of this meeting. I, along with other members of the Management Board for execution, met with the presidents of the minority parties on Friday, February 24, three days before the meeting. At the meeting held in New York, representatives of the prime minister and financial minister were also unproved, and when it came to it, the ideas of the funds were proved unrealistic and no treaties were made. The Management Board stressed the importance of all their work to be professional in all steps. The Ministry of finance, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Navy worked together, the results are very happy, and I want to use the opportunity to thank all those who helped that plow. This type of work needs to be done both fast and confidentially because the results of the operation affect financial markets. Here's the inside rules and it's important for all markets to sit at the same level. Now we have an agreement with the owners of a large part of the land. During the next two weeks, we will see how many people are identified with the invitation to get rid of their possessions in the same gang. A respectable president. The action is now part of a broad range of measures made by the government to improve orderability and improve general management conditions. The government announced yesterday about a project management that is responsible for leading work in reevaluation of the framework of the money policy. The task management is aimed at cooperating with members of Congress, foreign and domestic experts, partners of the labour market, and others. Thus, in a government contract, it is expressed that policy is to increase order. On the first day of the assembly after Christmas break, I proposed to the Allied Fundamental Policy, which requires additional financial support. It is consistent that there is a need to maintain a permanent operation for the next semester, including the year 2000. to provide room for growth reduction. About the middle of the year last year, an invitation was made in the Offlands, where trade took place on the gang of 190k. on euro. While participation in the invitation was disappointing, the Ministry reports that it is likely that at that time the snow - handed hang could have been wiped up mostly if the march had been 1,665,170 k. on euro. Now we can see that it would have been wise to complete the business of that success. The then government decided not to do so, perhaps because of the view that this had been done too well with land creditors. Afterward, everyone sees that the people of Iceland had made a lot of money closing the case, but they missed that opportunity. It is proper to remind you that the high cost of spending is high, and the cower has had the recent cost of growth as well as the gangsta. The present government plays cards now and, of course, keep the public interests in mind and, when an agreement is now made with national creditors. The important thing is that the public can now buy euros at a much lower price than the owners of the snow hanger. Economics get away from the oceans right away. Now, a business we're all proud of, such as Marel and Assur, can do their business properly. In the seas, they would never have been able to exist. We can't predict how many Marel companies could have been made if the oceans hadn't been there or if they had been removed earlier. But as the tide gets stronger, everyone who has crowns gets better. Gunna and Jón are richer today than they were a year ago. The African business owners also grew richer because treaties were not completed before. All politicians have declared the importance of Iceland's absence of seas for a long time. We know the former Icelandic Cronze, that lasted over 60 years. Business life has been kept for more than eight years this time. Although there have been widespread agreements at the time, no one can say about the indirect damage they have caused the workplace. Their delinquency is a major step toward reducing growth and stabilisation. Both of them improve the competitiveness of Icelandic homes and businesses, and this is a cause of joy. So I say, congratulations, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u6	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister to his report. I know the feeling when a new government arrives that it feels like a year's zero and the beginning of history is now. But, of course, there have been a number of people who have been on this route ever since the first elimination plan was submitted in 2011, and much good has been done on the way that has brought us to where we are today. At the same time, however, there are surely debates about some of the measures being made. First, I'd like to discuss just the agreement that has been made with the owners of foreign property and just discuss the continuation of matters. It is so that when a project was introduced mainly to stable taxes at their time, in 2015, and responsibly presented as a secondary route, it was discussed that the shipment of agricultural property should be completed in the autumn of 2015. However, it was not until the summer of 2016, when the contracts had been made to make stability contributions from the financial institutions fell. At that time, conversations with various demands began, as was a significant success in this hall. However, a funeral was scheduled in the fall of 2015. This did not happen. That was asked many times during the discussion, why the decision had been made to wait on it. When we spoke here for one weekend in May 2016, 20th-◯22. May, about the frame of law that was then set for the offhand, I asked for this because I was certain to worry about it at that time, and at council members of the left movement ◯ green bid, whether the swellings were really out of the water and really escaped from the seas, the pressure of the deportors had lighted. In view of the fact that there were less than 319 billion, the remaining 195 billion remained unattainable. V.E.G. The current financier comes here and says that it would actually have been better to negotiate with an amputee at another gang. He also seems to feel that there was a mistake in the implementation of the wastewater. But then, in May 2016, it was given 48 hours to review the case, for it is of course when you are in a position of government opposition that you are informed of things and not directly asked for an opinion. At one time, my committee saw that it had not even given time to evaluate the effect that it would have had in this way to extend the invitation. But in any case, there is no dispute that this country's owners have been negotiated at 90 billion at a considerably more favourable rate than they would have been in the summer of 2016. So they can take away something at their place of employment and certainly become clear because the crown's gang has grown stronger, but we must also wonder whether that time was normal and whether anything has been put under pressure to negotiate this way. It may be said, the pressure to rid the seas of economic conditions is very different from that of the past. The evidence that we have had for our heads, that the influx and influx of capitals fail to stabilise, is to be negligible in the case of a major financial supply, largely undeservedly useful to us, of course, to ensure stability if money leaves the country. Of course, a more successful position has resulted in the loss of the evidence for the oceans. Nevertheless, questions arise when such a decision is made to negotiate with the specific person. Now it's been announced that other parties can leave the country on the same terms that we'll see at least that its members will benefit by taking advantage of tens of billions of dollars together by not having participated in the invitation in their time but by leaving the country today. We saw this morning that the crown gang was sick. We asked for yesterday, both at the conference of the Directorates of the Economic and Business Committee, and then at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, and I want to thank for the immediate application of a meeting in a financial and business committee yesterday to review the scenarios that the government had drawn up in terms of progress because, of course, the actions being carried out in my memory at this time in September 2016 may have been the measures that protected the public most. However, the current measures are more relevant to companies in the country, small and medium-sized enterprises that will eliminate the burdensome aspects of the obligation. The public may not feel the same way about it, but it is important that we here consider that our role is always to defend the interests of the public. I would have liked to see a much clearer perspective on how different gang development can lead to, what the effect will follow on interest levels in the country, on the general public, on GDP, but in view of the fact that the policy force has been in the role of being an observer rather than a participant in decision making, I was also disappointed that these scenarios were not presented but that it was completely uncertain. It's certainly so, I don't think there's any man sharing it, that the outer circumstances are practical now to free the seas and take away the seas. Of course we celebrate that phase. As I said in the beginning: This has been since 2011. I'd also like to say that all that time, whoever has ordered the government has paid for this important matter of employment and public interest in Iceland. I'd like to say, of course, that we're glad we're getting to that place. However, we normally put a question mark on the contracts that have been made, the dates that exist, and the fact that some people out there, some of the hedge funds out there, set down a table with a much better contract than they could expect, based on the terms of the campaign this summer. Finally, I'd like to, for this is a fast time, to mention that yesterday's presentation was also a new committee of money reexamination. This was presented to us presidents at a meeting with a Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. As a matter of fact, I felt that it was looking for our opinion of that committee, and I made my opinion in view that it was normal for me to believe that all classes had been consulted as to what to do with the order of such committees. It is true that money policy in many respects is a subject of experts, not necessarily members of all groups. Is there anything that would have indicated that a government with the least possible greater part of the Council, with a smaller part of a vote on its back, where some agents have spoken very about improved work at the General and open administrations and less interested ones, would now have called for a meeting and settled down and consulted on which experts should put into such a committee so that cross - therapeutic approach and responsibility could be guaranteed for the activities of such committees and thus all members of the General Assembly would establish a form of property? No, in the suggestion that we were being consulted on but was presented as a fact at a press conference later that day, members of Congress are expected to board a meeting committee that will soon be allowed to meet with the groups selected by the experts and accept the material selected by the experts. I say, there was a good opportunity for the government to show that she wanted other and better practice, more consultations, wanted to look into it, and admitted that there are certain politicians involved in the way some experts are chosen to operate on such committees, that it's political that it's about reevaluating money policy and that it matters that there are certain questions asked. It's a huge interest in the public because it's all about how we can guarantee stability in economic matters, orderliness, how we see the future when it comes to currency policy. There the government had a good opportunity to open up, to show that it wants to expand cooperation in the General Assembly, and at the same time honor the view that it is important to bring experts to work. I would have thought that would have been an opportunity for the government to use. But she chose to report her decision at a press conference an hour later. I think this is an opportunity that went into court with the current government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u7	President. It's just been over eight years since I made my trip to Congress as a private citizen to witness the sentence of an emergency law. I remember looking over the council hall, and I was not overwhelmed by the weight and uncertainty of everything. Out there, feeling drowsy and trying times ahead for the entire nation. The penalty saved what could be saved and brought us happiness, so there is no denying. Despite the fact that those who made the defense of the country had played a major role in the intimacies that we experienced as a result of their extremely unskilled and subjugation of the banks. Everyone knows that story, and no need to recall it now. Now, after a long time, the protective coating is being removed, which has made us inside the seagulls that have given the Secret Bank a chance to control the crown's gangs somewhat more and to fluctuating the crews of the Crown, despite the fact that it, as if before a collapse, slowly and bitingly became stronger on all the major currency. This has its advantages and advantages, but overall, the economic growth that has brought up the quality of life for many of its roots has been attributed to unexpected circumstances with new income sources that make much currency available to the country. In the near future, the protective coating will disappear without the design of a global currency policy. I don't understand why this is done in the wrong order. But there are so many things that I'm doomed to understand in this series of events. Then, to increase the feeling of discomfort, it is found that the experts who are to lead the job in the money policy are ex - spokesmans for diagnostic departments, the Bank Advisor for collapse, a person associated with Sea 9 and then a person who is directly involved in Gamma. This isn't a good thing, Mr President, when it comes to creating confidence in the new times that would identify the new Iceland. Why was it that representatives of the Icelandic government are meeting the biggest hedge fund on their home field rather than being proclaimed here? Why is it really acceptable that the bank manager believes that it is not possible for members of Congress to receive anything in such an environment that they are obliged to respect confidentiality in such information? Then I'm talking about the confidence that these hedges are. Just as I sat here in the councils over eight years ago and was filled with agitation, I sensed that many of the things that were going to happen were about a lot of random quality and that it would be all right, such as - Yeah, I'm gonna say it - Icesave deal the first. At that time, cold water flowed between skin and skin when those taking the lead in this enterprise, the minister of finance, the prime minister, along with the bank manager, could not reveal that no stage films were ever ready in case of this huge experiment to go wrong. Such information was requested at a closed meeting in a economic and business committee yesterday and no information could be obtained. Then there must be no such scenes, or management plan, that they do not exist. I find it very dangerous, and I challenge relevant organizations and their officials to do something about it right now. Like all the people of the country, I welcome this milestone and want to stress the fact that there is a very clear and conclusive need for the possibility that economic disaster will not return and will not achieve progress for cleaning by offering ploughs in the law that can create new risks with less hot ice or glaciers. President. I hope no politician or official gets all worked up and thinks that the mouse game is over with a powerful army of lawyers of hedges or financers, who know how to hack gray areas on law and order to find a way to let communities bleed. The minister of finance says in his speech: "Congratulations in Iceland. But only eight years have passed since then, the prime minister said: "Guð bless Iceland. It is good to remember that no one knows his life before and what tomorrow will bring. Being well prepared for a lean year or unexpected situations is the key to stability. Finally, I'd like to condemn the lack of information that the members of the government's opposition must have in this case and the complete lack of a serious agreement. If so, I would like to remind you of the tremendous potential for working out and identifying this operation. It is worth remembering, then, what could have been done for the estimated 20◯49 billion that we have lost in this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u8	A respectable president. I want to start by being especially happy that we have reached the stage that has not long ago been self - conscious, lifting everything from the Icelandic public, businesses, and pension funds. It is only since 2013 that before the election, the options we were faced were cut short. Similarly, every step we have taken in recent years, we have seen strong stakeholders exerting all power to undermine the government's plans to defend the European public and restore the natural rules of funding flows to and from the country. International institutions have been consulted. The courts have been visited. The International Cash Fund has been fought many times, experts are sending out of the Ark to write articles in reputable international newspapers, all to undermine the Allied Council in the scheme we have followed, to reassign Iceland from the head of currency. It may be said that it was not strange because economic interests were immense. But we have come to this place after we have followed a targeted plan, which was revised, and last in 2015, where we broke the problem into three different categories. In this respect, good counseling of the World Bank was also provided. We know how we dealt with the problem. We said: "It will not be that the property of dead financial companies can consult demands in a way that puts pressure on the Icelandic bank. And we found a wonderful solution to the problem. The next class was the one we've been discussing today, the Afghans. We've held count of invitations. I'd like to mention it here, because there's a lot of talk about the auction that was held last year. That invitation followed by about 20 other invitations that had occurred in the early stages of the case. There was only one more outlet, since we were trying to relieve this snow-handing piece of snow. It's been going well. Now, some 100 billion, possibly left behind, of the problems that were not so many times that amount was not long ago. Then there is the third group of snow-engineers, or pressure, directed to the Icelandic crown, that is simply the foreign market we are here today to see rise. This is also in line with the plan we have worked on, in line with the previous steps we made in the past year's presentation, and now we went into effect for the past year's round, i.e. the steps that were set. We said last year, in the bill that was then submitted - in a discussion on that matter - that governments would be expected to arrive early next year, i.e. During 2017, a reevaluation of circumstances for the increase in currency markets and capital movements, according to Article 1 and 2. the bill as well as the continued preparation for full emissions of capital waste. The Secret Bank was appointed to revise the budget for July 1, 2017. There was a clear plan for us to continue our work with the same goals that we had already introduced. I don't think it's a good idea when people come up here and say that the invitation that was held in the middle of the year has not been a success. The fact is, we were included in a decree far beyond what had been accomplished at previous tenders; far, far beyond that. A substantial amount of money then released, just about 70 billion, if I recall correctly, that we managed to get rid of the invitation. Of course, a large sum remained left, but a well - chosen invitation led up to the fact that we were able to start a decommissioning process on a domestic basis. Or, to those who adjust it so that we have lost something by not going further at that point, we can look at it the other way and say: "We might as well have had an invitation last year, not true, when the gang of the Crown was as high as it has become in historical context. This, of course, is some postama, standing here today and saying: Well, it was natural in June 2016 that the crown's gang was about to grow stronger. But it's not like that. Those who act like this should know much better. The key point is that if you want to see who is profiting from the trades that are taking place at the Federal Bank on this round, you should just ask yourself, " Is the Secret Bank not making any profit? ' And the answer to that is: Yes, the baneman is getting very good out of this business and will get an accounting profit, a considerable profit, when these transactions have been made up. Here, however, is the most important thing that we are going to succeed in restoring seas, which many would have said could take a decade, even longer, to raise the economy. We have experience from the past that we have lived for decades, but we Icelanders have succeeded in doing this, fast, winding down the narrow spot we broke in 2008 and 2009, that in 2017 it has come to pass. There's another thing about the development from last year's tenders. Why is it that the Secret Bank can do business with the New World Translation? Well, that's because it's been going well in Iceland. This is because, after a recent campaign, the United States and I have had a positive attitude toward our country's homes. The Icelandic crown has grown stronger in the meantime, so much more. In fact, so much of the export branches are complaining. It's a certain warning signal. However, the main premise is that we have walked forward in the meantime, and after the steps that took place last year. That's why it's very strange, and it turns out very strange, that men come up here and say, "Well, we're losing all of this together. Isn't it sad how much we're losing out on taking those steps now? It's all backwards. It's a upside-down argument. We benefit, Icelanders, from getting back to healthy places where we are free of water. The ocean's shadow began retreating in the last two years, and the biggest steps were taken by the development of the broilers, the release was the next step, the recovery of the seams, and maybe the placement of the currency boundaries was the third step. And now we're taking another step to complete victory over domestic redundancy. What will then be the subject of those who fail to accept the offer set out by the late bat? But, of course, everything goes on to indicate that substantial amounts of money still depend on the specific limits on the accounts in accordance with the laws given last year. And we will continue to evaluate when and how further steps will be taken to ensure that these measures will be permanently removed. Today, nothing can be said about that. Today is simply a time to celebrate what we have - and it is very easy for me to say and agree with what we have so far - all of us to do in order to create these good conditions. It is, in fact, in Iceland, with the tremendous rise we've had since we've been in a crisis, that we've long since closed our budgetholes, paid off debts, and now released ourselves from the oceans as the nation's financial resources have increased rapid paces. The land production has outrun what it was for the economic breakdown. All of this is far beyond the expectations of those whom we have sought and really out of the expectations of the person we speak. It's a day to celebrate, but the work is not quite finished. They come to us on an assembly route, and we need to be careful and use our long - term thinking so that we do not get lost.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u9	A respectable president. We're here on some positive news. Actually, I don't know if it's the highest. The secretary of finance was announcing that there would be a flag from this day forward. So he started his speech. What good news this is! It is true that we have gone very right on this path ever since we hit that crash. Of course, it was crucial to take the 2013 course and for the strategy set in June 2015, which has been followed by the then High Priestship and Independence Party, it is simply that everything has been accomplished, and actually since the past. The economy has also been successful. That explains how good the situation is today. However, it can be admitted that it was too long to keep the last invitation held in June last year. This could have come earlier because of our success in the economy, the speed of our rotation. Now the expectations for positive attitudes and increased confidence in the Icelandic economy, including the U.S. From credit companies, which will help us into the future. Government officials have hoped that these measures will help to strengthen the crown. But is this likely? The underlying problem is the high interest level in this country and the difference between country's growth and neighboring countries. So there is a problem. It'll be drawn in here by money. And the devices that we had in the past had been within the seaside, which were used to prevent such a Carry Trade or a business of growth, are not the same, they do not work the same. So I agree with it with the highest. Prime Minister that there is still work to be done. It's harder to maintain the position than the inside. It's disappointing that the questions we had last night, walking, stage movies, no answers were made. We're going into some uncertainty class. That's why it's urgent to ask the highest question. Government and leader: Is there a plan? Is there a plan going on? This programme was also changed from June 2015, during this operation. I asked the highest. The secretary of finance here on Thursday is about whether a secret agreement was going on because we have a konsekoff, always, claiming that we had no negotiations. That's why the plan was set up. That's why the stable tax was set up. It wasn't treaties. V.E.G. The minister answered, by permission of the president: ◯ He wrote: "The name of the Lord is mine, and the name of the Son of man will be returned to you. " - i.e. The person standing here -- these references to a meeting that was held that I plan last week for a meeting with the government. At that meeting, no agreements of any kind were resolved, but the representatives of these hedge funds will have explained their point. That's what the Supreme One said. Secretary of finance earlier in speech that no contracts were ever made. But were negotiations in progress? Did a minister lie here on Thursday? Because yesterday in the media it was reported that the latter part was sent on Friday one and a half days later. Why don't you tell us the truth here in the General's symposium when we ask and ask for more information on what's going on here? Here's the bottom line. Secretary of finance that the interests of the common people have been under. I say, we lost the credibility of going down and making deals with a hedge fund that has challenged us from the beginning. Whether we lost a lot of money is controversial and controversial. We lost money. Isn't the government now complaining that money is lacking in transport, health, and other 20 billion? Is that not something you could use for this? But at least we lost credibility because we've never agreed with this party. Now it was done and it was done behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u10	A respectable president. I agree with those who have congratulated us on getting off the record. This is certainly a very big step, not exactly the last step, but a very big step to complete a very long way that we have walked since 2008. I'd like, to not repeat the fine talks that have been given here, to remember it for why we're breaking heads, why we were in the head. This is because in 2008 everything fell literally after a very unwary display, a very unwary violation of a rule - working program that made it a major failure and eventually collapsed the entire banking system and the community more and less. It was the first time we had the gift of getting together, a world of Congress came here in the evening and approved the emergency law. As sometimes happens to us Icelanders, we were able to make pies together to save things when there was finally a danger. It's a long story. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, reminded us that it is not the year of zero today. If the year had ever come, then, of course, 2008. Since then, all classes have been involved in something. I would like to agree that very important steps were taken, not only with the 2008 disaster when the oceans are set, which certainly saved what was saved and made shelter, but also in 2011 when a plan is set out, which is then designed for 2015, about the recovery of the sea, which we are finally seeing to be realized. I agree with the warnings to all of us that it is important that we do not forget, that we continue to make sure that our regulations and environment are able to keep us stable, to encourage the long - term thoughts, which I believe, in fact, collapse and the crisis have taught us. Since then, there are many good things that we have introduced, and the five - year plan is one small step. I saw this morning talking about how the market was going to react to the release of Hash, which was announced yesterday, the headline: a lot of fluttering on the crew of the Crown. It was referring to a movement of about 3◯4%. I thought that not many years ago, a few percent of the Icelandic kroner would not have had much. Sadly, we are accustomed to much more instability than that. The steps we take now must be part of stepping out of this classic ambiguous Icelandic economy. Therefore, I would like to point out that this is part of a number of measures taken by the government in terms of money matters that aim to stem in some way, or to control, the almost unprecedented granting of the Icelandic gang, but also to get better control of the position we are in with this small independent coin with this huge interest. Release and review of the framework of money policy is a very important task in order to reduce the interest rates in Iceland and abroad that have been dependent on us, but also in historical terms, for the influx of capital; we are still leaving behind the seas to resist it. These steps are of vital importance to us. They also matter to the public and to the home, although it is true that the oceans after the last shift in the fall and now the year has not had much direct influence on the public. But they have had a big impact on their job life, on SMEs who have had a lot of energy and a high cost of living with dues. This interest difference and high interest rates we have had to live with in Iceland have truly cost us a great deal. I have strong faith in and high expectations for this work to reconsider the framework of money policy. I take to heart the warning that victory is not won at all, we really need to keep going. But here's a very big step. I congratulate us on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u11	Madam President. The United States has supported decommissionation in governments as well as in government and government opposition. We are happy to see that in March 2011 the strategy we have followed has led us to a major conclusion and the legal situation created in March 2012 toward foreign demands. Today, the requirement for execution is certainly a positive one. Hope was then so that much more water could be removed, and the cost of the delay is difficult to assess. Now the owners of the land are getting high prices for crowns. So the question is, Should it have been still to wait to pay for their exits and see first what effect has been caused by the release of others on the swinging currency? Furthermore, do we ask whether this charge is in the direction of the Committee to Refuse Without Discussion here at the General Assembly? Madam President. Let us not forget the reasons for the goats. Unrespect behavior that led to the collapse of the economic system by the unprecedented collapse of the crown cost Icelandic employees dearly. Now that a few dollars are made strong, paid people enjoy it, including a dollar. Because of the introduced prices and the increased purchase potential, they hear voices that, above all, it has to be weakened to save the basic working roads. Never, though, can it be that possessors benefit from political interference, but the cost of paying people is high. We need stability and forethought. It is the best - known and public knowledge. This roller coaster ride of the Crown will always end with the public paying the bill. Since its recordings in 1918, it has been an independent source of problems, not a free flood without the result of a bank crisis. She's also been following head and subsidian. Now we need to use our long - term thoughts, like the highest. The prime minister said just now. I am certainly happy that at that breakthrough, the government has decided to appoint a committee for reinvigorated money policy. It's a plan for broad consultations. Close cooperation with the council is important and all roads are reviewed. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that one of the most important tasks is to prevent any excessive fluctuations of the crown. But will politicians also decide what's right? It is only a short time, Madam President, to constantly focus on treating symptoms rather than on preventing or curing disease. I certainly hope that this new committee will consider with an open mind both the flaws and the benefits of a small country of using its own coins. I trust it to the highest. A minister has made extensive consultations in this work and will also see how the banking system we want in this country. A lesson must be learned from our bitter history in this regard. Madam President. Loki Laufeyjarson had some unfortunate consequences, including Hel, Miðgarðsormur and Fenri Fenrisúlfur. When rivers finally threatened Fenrisúlfur, they attempted to tie it, first with a feathered Læðingur and then with a Drómi. The beast severed both of them, and in the meantime, the phrases had to be solved, as well as to kill, as it were. When all the rocks were banned, they finally turned to dwarves, who made the runt but the crippling Gleipnir. He keeps Fenrisúlfur stuck right up to the rabraka. Likely, Dr. Loki Laufeyjarson is a member of the Göðum, who regularly gets in trouble, and then he gets used to the lifesaving work as well. The crown may have fewer offspring than Loki, who are known to be insurance and unstable. The Icelandic government has long tried to control its instability, using its version of Lugga, and drema. Their bonds have not been held, and their instability has regularly caused much misery, especially among the employees. Now is the question: How can we manage to keep the crown steady, whether we will search the dwarves, and use the woman's beard, the base of the rock, the tendons of the bear, the breath of the fish, and the spit of the bird? Or will we even find the best use of other coins in the modern economy? Madam President. You see, we need to examine it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. We've received a report of the decommissionment of the budget school that was reported yesterday, taking effect from tomorrow onward. In 2008, however, the economic consequences of the collapse have become a real waterbed. Finally, our relationship with the world's economy is to return to normal, and we can fulfill our international commitments to finance transport without force. The recovery of the plague is an unequivocal positive event. As a matter of fact, I think a world of Congress and the entire nation can agree. With the delinquency, an important part of the aftereffects of the crash is coming to a successful completion. The execution of the seawaters is a confirmation that we have been able to correct our interests, so we have a considerable share of foreign transactions, foreign debt is acceptable, the currency repercussive, and the economic growth of great. There is good reason to believe that delinquency of the problems will have positive economic consequences if it is maintained correctly. However, predicting the future is always difficult. Strong odds, however, indicate that delinquency of the past, along with conservative financial policy, substantial peace of the labour market, and a progressive review of the money policy, should contribute to a more stable economic balance. All the rest of this work is more likely than any other country's credit ratings and thus the better credit rates for the government and other local bodies. It is to cause the growth of public and Icelandic companies to drop. The reduction in interest of the debt of the government and the people of the country is of utmost importance in all respects. The lower Kingdom interest costs increase the government's budget for other projects, and there is no need to have many comments on the positive effect of growth reduction on the homes of the country. In particular, consider those who are putting their roofs over their heads. The decrease in interest is certainly one of the best reforms available to the homes in the country. Then I would like to mention that breaking free from the plague should make it easier for Icelandic companies to reach out for a foreign investment for building up and moving into a foreign market. Finally, an important step was taken yesterday by order of a project management on the reevaluation of the money policy. It aims to evaluate the frame of the current money policy, to determine what reforms can be made to the current policy of money with inflation goals. However, it is equally important that she is assigned to identify alternative options for money management, such as the implementation of a business goal with standard fixation or the use of a currency scheme. The Project Management Board is to submit their results this year. This is especially important for us during the restoration, since one of our main policies is to consider the benefits of a currency body. In my opinion, the constantity or coinage may just be a good blow to the manufacture of euro and to the European Union in its own time. A respectable president. This stage has not come naturally. It is the endpoint of a great work that began as soon as the collapse occurred. This work, being done well over eight years, has led many politicians, officials, and counselors, from abroad. There is good reason to keep this in mind when this huge task has been carried out by an Icelandic community. At that time, five prime ministers have been serving as prime ministers. They've come from the Independence Party, the United States and the forwarding party. The Secret Ministers have been five, from Independence party, left green, Convergence, and now the last restoration. Thus, there is no political party or minister who can truly say that the results are due only to them. However, it will not be taken from the present government that she successfully completed it in such a short time in a concerted effort. The result, however, is together, and it is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u13	Madam President. We here discuss a turning point in the history of the restoration of the Icelandic economy after the collapse in October 2008. Gile capitals that can be removed without a law change will be lifted at midnight this night. However, despite the top-level minister declaration, this is not the greatest news that has been reported on executional activities, which led to the formation of reports of the annual annual spending of the public's finances as much as those announced yesterday. Despite yesterday's news for the Icelandic financial market and the economy, however, there are some details that are unclear regarding the execution of a part of the government's currency scale and the Sentencing Bank. Madam President. Some have called this unfurled ebbing ◯megall, so I allow myself to pop into the Allellis speaker's chair. However, more people have had doubts about the fact that this is true, especially when confronted with the failure of Iceland's African tender invitations last June. Despite the highest. The prime minister may feel that there has been one more invitation for a review to mention that it was a national invitation used as one of the main pardons of the then government for postponing elections until the fall due to the Wintris case. Most of the landowners refused to participate in the invitations offered by the Sentencing Officer 190 bucks. For every euro. In spite of the corrosive threats from the U.S. government, economic funds among African owners refused to accept it. The invitation was a failure, a failure for the Icelandic State and its interests. The decision of an African owner to wait for a better offer seems to have been correct, since high - ranking government officials went to their meeting in New York City. Clearly, that meeting was one of the main reasons why current emissions, together with a good - looking deposit system, became a reality. Therefore, it is clear that landowners have profited by 38% from waiting for an agreement with the Icelandic government and now paying according to that agreement, 137.5 k. For every euro. This can hardly be counted as a gnome, can it? But then there is the question about the leftover owners, who are not part of this agreement today, but who went on much worse terms. Is it absolutely clear that there will be no legal repercussions on their part, that they affiliates will not seek justice now that the Icelandic state has offered hedge funds in the United States much better? I also wondered, " What is the situation of the remaining ones, their store for 105 billion dollars? ' who have not accepted the government's present offer. The government may have opened up divination. Don't they wait even more to take out more luck if they immediately open up to that possibility? Madam President. Removal or release is not happening here with one pen mark. This has been a goal for many years, but unfortunately, it has been working under the government of the last government and the present, and it is clearly meant to remain in some form of artificial agreement without a serious agreement with the representatives of all Groups at the General Assembly, without a serious agreement with the opposition. It is essential that this work that matters to all of us in one way or another be carried out in an open process and in more consultation and cooperation. At the same time as the present government reported largely about the release of the ocean yesterday, the order of the task management of the reorganization of the money policy was announced. It is absolutely essential that the trust and trust of countries in the work of that committee and that the Federal Republic of Iceland ensures that it has every means available to sit on committees who can take responsibility in an honest manner with no link to the economy that can undermine trust and trust in her work and decisions. Wouldn't it be good to get an appointment from the councilmate in this project? The improvement in the economic situation of the region and the high strength of the crown have made it harder and harder to justify specific legislation against one group. Then I ask, Madam President, who is the greatest vision? Secretary of finance about the crown's position? V.E.G. A minister spoke freely of the crown's gang becoming more stable. What does he have in mind when no economist or bank manager is trusting to predict the client's position? What forms are being used for the stratosphere and interest levels? This needs to be informed about the interests of the public and commercial environment of the Icelandic enterprise. Madam President. Government responsibilities are high in the current economic situation, tension is tangible, and much discipline is needed in the economy under conditions as usual. The crown's state is fragile, and there is no accident that there will be a big swing or a drop in the dollar. This is when discipline and trust and honesty are tested in economic matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u14	Madam President. I'd love to be able to celebrate it with the highest power. Presidency and economic advisers that at midnight tonight will be suspended as soon as possible, while the shadow of secrecy falls on joy. The decision to take care of the matter seems quite successful, but I have limited grounds to evaluate it, as there are very limited information available to the council. It's amazing how little government talks to the council on the project. One brief secret meeting with the presidents of the government on the front of the school is not enough for the General to be well informed about the progress of the proceedings. I'd like to believe that it's well done, but it's a bit of a mystery. That suspicion would have been easy to break with evidence. Criticism is important, even when confidential. For example, if you had provided a number of stage photos that showed likely results and responses to them, we would feel much better about this. V.E.G. A health minister speaks of the indiscriminate violation of rule. I think it's rather dangerous to eliminate a rule without consultation with the council. Questions wake up anyway. If delinquency has a bad effect, when will we know about it? What will be done when that happens? Obviously, the harbor bank can change its rules again and pursue a currency exchange to match the flutter, but how long and in what amount? What boundaries on the flutter will we accept? How should this behave for a shorter and longer time? A political decision may need to be made whether we're going to accept 50% of the illness or 50% of the crown's strength over the next five years, which is not the strange idea if you look at the gang flutter during the last week. Then there is the question of how the surveillance has been performed prior to decommissioning. Now there's a big secret, so much so that the Allied itself heard about it through the press on Sunday morning. The only positive thing about it is that the chances that some people have been able to apply the information before a weekend are reduced. But the question is, When was the decision made and what has been observed in the meantime? Now it is well known that when the emergency law was passed at its time, information from the Sensitors went to business banks through family and friends connections. It is also appropriate to ask yourself in this regard, as did Cíceró: Cui bono? Who heals? Of course, those who will continue to enjoy wax trade. Even if such a business is still at hand, let us not underestimate the innovation of financial and financial interests. It is also apparent that some funds that had quite a few of the world's Africans made quite a lot of money from previous plans that went out of the possibility of leftovers. Thus, when these companies are examined, it is surprising that some of the largest have the same address. Maybe it's the same people behind these companies? Who knows? Who are these people, and why are they set before them in line? Then perhaps the answer to the question, "Cui non recommended? ' Who doesn't make money? There is little evidence that the public is making money, nor does it seem that there is much emphasis on the pension fund, that our economy is sadly overworked, but they have not been fully exploiting the existing sources. And finally, Quis solvit? Who's paying? It's not clear either. But it looks like the government. 90 billion sales per 137.5 jar. The gang is 20 billion discounts. If everything stays in the snowhand, it'll go up to 50 billion. There are more than four-fold Venal Passways or a double of all single bridges in the country ten times. Not that I know what we could do with 20-fold bridges, but that's different. Madam President. Everything mentioned above is designed to point out that almost everything in this operation is unclear. In fact, it is unclear whether this is unclear because no one has checked these issues or whether the General has been left out. The tone that was struck yesterday made up a number of things we've taken care of in terms of execution were upset. We had assumed that first the public and businesses would be removed, but the leftovers who did not participate in the campaign last summer would be left behind. We had also arranged for a large word to begin with. Secretary of the campaign, of the need for a new approach to money policy, would be established in any way before this operation would be undertaken. And once again, only a new team is appointed, and no real vision comes from the government but only ill - supported quick decisions, or at least it looks that no information is available to us. What we are asking for is clearness and a vision for the future. We want words of understanding. It may well be that abduction is at best. I hope so. Congratulations, if you do. It is vital, however, that the council can make sure that all decisions are correct and sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u15	A respectable president. How good the news is that the currency officials are now being fully relieved! Now, for more than eight years, the seas have lasted much longer than expected at the beginning. Although they have provided a measure of security for the public at one time and in many respects proved to be an emergency following the financial crisis, their damage to the long - term world is clear. Recently, though, most of us have not felt the effects of our own goats. Yet, their skins have been remarkable. The cost of sacrifice is great but had become tragic; we did not see lost opportunities. We didn't see the companies that didn't exist, and we didn't see the economy that didn't happen. Head has undermined the trust that exists around the world in the Icelandic economy. By maintaining them for a long time, we indicate that we either cannot or do not want to run an open business system under the international drama. The prince thus damages the country's reputation and transmits to the world that our economic policies do not stand firm. The conditions now for emissions are very practical and could not be better. Economic outlooks are bright, economic growth in this country was 7.2% last year, much more than growth in our business countries. In the years to come, predictions continue to make good - looking interest. In such cases, inflation has remained low and stable, and the financial situation is in balance, and the debt of homes and businesses has rapidly declined. The future looks like a lot of business to be dealt with in foreign lands. The foreign state of the nation's population has not been better in the republics, and the currency supply is sufficient to meet all the foreign short-term debts of the population. Madam President. We can see on the market's response that the cost of stock has gone up, and the cost has gone up. No doubt there will be some movement while the market is digesting these news. Yet, the words of experts conclude that this operation, at best, slows down the year's strength, that its time is short, and the public's buying power continues to grow stronger. That's a good thing. That's good for good. We must be alert, though, that the exports, especially tourism and fishing routes, are very sensitive to the fact that the dollar grows so much, especially when some in here are calling for additional spells on these branches. Such measures may be difficult for exports. A respectable president. I'd like to tell you about him. He will be seven years old this month, but he first heard of the collapse this weekend. He asked what kind of crash had occurred. The house he was standing in? You see, these things are going to happen. Therefore, it is important to keep up the discussion of the importance of caution and to make sure that we produce a financial lock that is in many parts of the school. Madam President. The sign that has been flashing over the country since the collapse of a 'Counsel' will now be turned off, and here are headed. It's had a negative effect on the image of the Icelandic trade and economy. This is a remarkable period of history, economic and social. How wonderful it is that as a nation, we have passed that test! This has taught a great deal. But our reaction, the changes that have been made here, e.g. in the legal environment of finance, and all the consciousness that has come to light on the importance of taking care to the earth in economic affairs, will be our greatest success in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u16	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be rid of capital capital capital capital in Icelandic homes and businesses. Furthermore, it is positive to see that a budget plan presented in June 2015 should be carried out largely. Still, I would have wanted to see that we had first released the capital capital capital capital capitals in the country and the businesses in the land and then on the hedge fund. I'd like to recall that the invitation held on June 16 was the last in a row of tenders where the owners of an African country offered to buy a foreign currency before the government qualified for domestic release. For that reason, the bank manager, with permission of the president, said: With the tender invitation and recent legal adjustments, the last major obstacle has been overcome by major steps that can be taken to relieve capital capital capital problems against national authorities without any threat of instability. And he also says: ▪ Even if all offers have not been readily accepted in an off country, this will help solve the problem that the owners have lost very much. It has been arranged so that the remainder of the deportations will not cause instability during the disposal of capital resources on the domestic bodies. Therefore, the inhibitory effect should be minimal and the risk of unsatisfactory instability should be low. My understanding is that the government had placed these deportations from time to time in locked accounts. The next step would be to dislodge domestics and to see how the future in the currency market was and the impact on financial stability. After that, deportations would be released, which was not part of the invitation in June. It is a shame to see that the scales of the hedges came up and were given theirs in record - time. Those who decided not to play by the rules actually improved their status. It appears that they have gained 20 billion from waiting. I ask: Is it right to offer to those who did not participate in a general campaign better than the other members? It may be that this could result in a damage to the State because of this discrimination, such as at the time. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölfsdóttir came in? Now these noncombatants tried to influence the last election by aggressive advertisements in order to minimize the credibility of the government of the United States. Then you might conclude that these advertisements have yielded to the desired results. Some members of Parliament have asked if this could affect the future of resurgence and the bright future, i.e. that the head of the reveries has not really been interested in getting the advance party in the government because it was difficult and critical, especially in terms of the restoration of Iceland. Is that possible, Mr. Honorable President? We see that the dollar has been getting sick for the rest of the day. But, in my opinion, it is only a little bit early to tell us what the next successful development will be. There is a lot of power in the Icelandic economy, a powerful economy, the debt of homes and companies has fallen, and there has been a massive influx of foreign currency in connection with tourism. If handled properly, good looks are good. The positive thing about today is that the public and the business enjoy greater freedoms in terms of financial transport. Most important, for the homes and businesses in the country, they are living at gang and financial level. The economy at any given time must take into account the aim to increase the prosperity of the country and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u17	A respectable president. First, I want to quote some important points from the Constitution, with the permission of a president: Achieving and being forwarded is the theme of the government of an independent sect, of restoration and of a better future.... Trust has to be Iceland's competitive... The government supports widespread reconciliation in labour markets, government responsibilities and stability in gangs and money... It must be done to cut down the large radiances that have been in the crown's gang. Such fluctuations promote instability and explain some of the reasons why interest is generally higher in the country than in abroad... The priorities of Iceland's money and currency policy will be re-evaluated, including In view of the changes in the nation's economics through the mass tourism and the rapidly growing currency reserves. The Minister's Committee will consult with members of Congress and work closely with Iceland's Secret Bank, the labour market and the external specialists, according to events in the field of National Economic Council. Based on the results of the 2012 National Bank of Iceland report on Iceland's options for currency and gangs. These include evaluation of the implementation of prices, currency advice, solid policy, and other advantages. Work results are available in the first year of work... The disposal of funding transport is being carried on by a stronger and healthier economic situation in the country. One of the priorities of the government is to work progressively toward the progress of a budget removal programme. Now we are taking the first step out of many in making it a reality. Yesterday, it was announced that all the capital interests of individuals, businesses, and pensions would be taken away by the new U.S. Bank on currency. A currency head did not defend for nine years, so it can be said that today is a cause for rejoicing. The ban is that the Scrollman uses the bank's legal rights in terms of remuneration in order to provide an exception to the limitations of currency exchanges and capital companies now validated by publishing new legal requirements and the binding of cash money because of the influx of new foreign currency. I would like to discuss again the necessary action to reduce the large fluctuations that have been on the crown's gang. Such fluctuations promote instability and explain some of the reasons why interest is generally higher in the country than in abroad. Therefore, the criteria of Iceland's currency and currency policy must be reassessed, including In view of the changes in the economics of the nation by the mass movement of tourism and the rapidly growing reserves of currency. Simply put, a dollar is too strong. The aim of revisions is to find the longer-term framework of money and currency policy to support economic and financial stability in terms of economic growth, inflation, interest, progress and sector. The removal of a currency stand will also have a growth lowering effect. Now there's a situation where business will be free for all members of the local community. The fact that business has not been free has paid us lower estimate. The credit rating will improve substantially as a result of this recovery and should result in less interest for the Icelandic government and the Icelandic company and home. This alone is a cause for rejoicing. It is important to discuss the next steps, plan carefully, and have important consultations that will be important in making money policy. The work ahead is important to the public, to the career and to the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u18	Mr. President. From the moment the currency was placed, the plan has been made to lift them. The strategy was made in 2011, when The Árni of Páll Árnason, former chairman of the United States, was economic minister, and that plan continued in the time of the last government. The seas were put on to protect the common people's interest. In the fall of 2008, it was necessary to do in the wake of a financial collapse. Our situation with demands was then strengthened when foreign property was transferred to the currency office by legalization in March 2012. In fact, the Independence Party voted against that legal bill, but then that group was in a position of government and was not cooperating with a left government, even in the big case that ensured the U.S. Convention's resistance to the decommissionment of the Icelanders. If those laws had not been passed, we would not be in the position today to relieve our oceans. We must find answers to how the market's votes are not going to get worse, so much more so than this current operation has been offered. V.E.G. During a press conference yesterday, the prime minister said that the general public would be only indirectly aware of the consequences of the lift and positive use of the seas. Can we trust words of the highest power? Minister? Won't the dollar get weaker from these measures? Will not the public be aware of this in deteriorating terms? Some people are hoping that interest will decline over the next few weeks. Would we not then ask about the effects of growth reduction and their impact on the future interest of the public? The timing raises questions, too. Is the mission being carried out by those who hope that the crown's gang will be reduced following this action? Is this a good time, since it is only a short time since they tried to get clients to agree to another and a much worse offer with threats. Will these developments damage the credibility of the government? The government tried to force an amnesty to participate in a final discharge, realizing that if they did not participate, they would be very difficult and would have to prepare for long hours to sit in here with their money. The minister of finance who threatened them is now prime minister, and he was prepared to give much up and to offer another offer far more beneficial for those who rejected the very advantages. Is this evidence that failure was made with the offer of great advantages? Could have ended the contracts with a lower amount, e.g. 170 k. on euro or at least A better price for us than it is now being invited? Despite all the unregistered questions that come with the disposal of currency, it is still important to achieve negotiations and get it over with. This is true of all failures in connection with the crash. Uncertainty still exists in the Icelandic economy. The onset of the effect of the release has not completely destroyed the unsuspecting imbalance. We continue to enjoy risks. The main risks now include a dollar, as they were before, travel services, and housing markets. The economic situation is linked to these three aspects of a strong bond all of which are interwoven. Once again, we have put ourselves in position that all too much depends on one industry. The lesson of the collapse was not to be merely a highly developed financial policy; it was to be the same as not letting a single business raise us above our heads. We've learned nothing in this regard. And now, too, the housing market is up to date. It is not only economic matters but also a big matter of well - being. We need to gain better control of economic control. We know that the U.S. dollars is a source of instability. We know that land growth is a burden in Icelandic households and with the highest in developed lands. We know that the field of knowledge calls for stability and international coins. Will we continue to carry on the crown and take the dips with it at the appropriate cost? Or will we adopt another currency that brings us less growth, a better housing market, and a wide variety of well - paying jobs? Mr. President. I don't think we have to worry long about the answers to these questions. I think they're obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the discussion and thanking the president for putting her on the program at such short notice. This was not prepared until yesterday, so I thank both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance for participating in the discussion. They have often lacked a proper controversy of such a big deal. I have to thank you for that. Abolition of the past is certainly a positive report in my opinion. But in a way, there is reason to pause, look back, and think about what we should do in the future. The track's starting to scare. There is a reason why many who have come here in a pita are not too optimistic about this step. Although I think most people would agree that it's time to get out, it's not the question of the end, it's how we got there. What we now discuss is not total emissions. It's not, "Yes, congratulations Iceland, emissions have taken place." Not like the highest. Secretary of finance was on the rise. There are still extenuating trades in Icelandic dollars to prosecuting, in the currency trade between domestic and foreign agencies not done by national financial companies, and in the credits of domestic organisations to foreign parties in certain cases. They're heads. These are oceans that have little to do with, but these are seas. Happily, so to speak, we have not entered this unbridled freedom of freedom of mind, which was here in 2002 when the sum of the money became an absolute float. Granted, there is cause for rejoicing, despite the fact that there is a measure of caution in these matters. One point has not been completed. Not the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance has shown that in June, the postmortems will be of the payoff, the national commission. Why did some get special treatment now that started last Monday in New York and then was announced yesterday to the president? Will that be a drawback? This was not what people expected. Not me. So I have to ask and get a clear answer from the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not we've already had our own trust. Will this lead to a lawsuit against the United States? Some could go out at 137.50, while others could go to 190. Other things I think are very special. On the same day as reports of delinquency are also announced reports of new policies or plans for new currency policies and money policies in Iceland. The future of the Crown is not clear, despite the decommission. We don't have any stage photos. It's not like the government is consulting crystal balls, is it? I think the government has some ideas about how things should be done. The crown has already gotten sick. But what does the government intend to do if it breaks? What if she keeps getting stronger? This would likely result in leaving land and financial resources in foreign lands. But that's not certain. What? Will the government place floors on the foreign investments of pensions if they do not go out more? These are the answers we need. It is being cleared without a clear idea of who the government is going to pursue. It's shown by the highest. Secretary of finance reports the same day on reassessment of Iceland's National Bank of Money. Money policy and currency are special issues, but not something political, says the highest. Secretary of finance almost. But it's high political. We're talking about the experts involved in the establishment of employment, the Independence Party, Gamma and cheerleading and diagnostics department of the Copenhagen Bank. Is it strange to talk about 2007 floating over lakes?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u20	A respectable president. When the capitals were put here in 2008, they were spoken of as temporary, two years plus/minus. Well, more than eight years later, however, it will finally be a cover for the past; a head that no free nation can live for long. It is a great simplicity to give thanks to certain individuals when important milestones are reached, a phase that I consider to mean the beginning of new times. If I should mention any particular person, I'd like to mention two, okay? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and the highest. Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson It was a monotonous policy of the 2013 Foreign Government and the 2013 Independence Class, under the lead of these two individuals, and for the swellings, it was the most stable and reasonable policy. It was this course that enabled us to defuse the capital capital capital in stages and now ashelf under the final stage. This makes a more healthy account of Icelandic employment. In recent times, a reversal of Icelandic economy, and this clear policy by the government laid the groundwork for the delinquency we see - and in times past, someone would have said. The seas have had a debilitating effect on Icelandic business life, they have reduced their energy from businesses, they have become paralyzed. Thus, the foundation of improved lifestyles for the long future has become weaker. We've seen how the debilitating hand of the seagulls has made it more difficult for the innovations and sceptres, especially for those who have tried to get their way in the foreign markets. We also know that the oceans have forced many Icelandic companies to look for less effective means of setting goals. We all know how the oceans have poisoned the atmosphere, creating a surveillance system that has been nearly in each person's hurry to observe perfectly normal business. All of this has damaged Iceland's Icelandic community and competitiveness. Happily, that time is now behind us. We can look forward to the road with optimism. Economic growth is much bigger than in most other countries. In fact, in the recent three years, inflation has been under the objectives of the Federal Bank. In the years to come, poverty has increased tremendously, and the debt of the state has dropped dramatically. We have work to do. The review of the money policy is ahead. A new policy can take over not only the prices of the Federal Bank but also the goals or tasks of the Federal Bank must include securing a balance in the bank's gangs and reducing fluctuations. In the long run, it will not be possible to ensure the competitiveness of the Icelandic enterprise if the interest in this country is much higher than in major business countries. The real interest in this country is much higher than in major business countries and has been for some time. However, we can expect that during the weeks and months to come, growth will get worse. That's what I think we're doing. Secretary of finance agree. There's all economic grounds for that. In addition to creating a more healthy economy environment, it provides individuals and companies with the opportunity to distribute the risks, especially in other countries. Investment in foreign markets reduces economic risks and is therefore not only reasonable but essential. Under oceans, a force of abuse creates an property in Icelandic stocks and/or other assets is at risk of property evasion, which, sooner or later, will explode and we have already seen its mark. A head of currency exchange thus suffers serious losses, especially for the depositors of the pension fund, the paymen here in Iceland, who need and who have to earn a lot of their possessions in other countries, even if only to spread risks. Now there are only 22% of the holdings of pensions in foreign property, but the total holdings of the pension are about 3,500 billion, or 42% of the gross domestic product. However, after 13 years in 2030 or about 260% of the gross domestic product, life's funds can be expected to grow substantially in the years to come. If we are going to set the goal of having 40% of their possessions in foreign property, Icelandic pension funds have to invest for 1,900 billion in the coming years, in the next 13 years. Of course, we can approach the subject in different ways, as discussed here. Some of us always see the glass half-empty, and then we're the rest of us who usually see it half-full. We can see the possibilities, see the light ahead. It would have been good if we had perhaps spent a considerable amount of this time here to discuss how we use the good opportunities created in the past, how we can use the greater freedom that is being created here to prepare for the living, to strengthen the position of pensions, and how we can help companies to use these many opportunities. Iceland and I were assured of the importance of the national authority of money. Then, in 2008, we were assured. Other nations experienced extreme economic hardships, painfully learning the cost of handing over this sovereignty. Now, however, the sovereignty has been maligned again and again by the decommissioning of the past. Hopefully, that will be what most people can rejoice in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u21	A respectable president. The formation of this government has not been clear. Yet there are two new categories. You would think that when men come together and form a class, there's a purpose in that, something to change, something to want new emphasis. Not much has happened to them so far. It's been rather popular. The morning work has not been remarkable for this government, the most agile of all, was going back on their words, so to speak, regarding things such as transportation, but generally little till now. Until now, a respectable president, we find that this government is going at least. not to follow the last government's policy in dealing with those who have tried to make Iceland money because of the problems we went through, not following the same course as the other. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was so well described earlier. True, the plan was to complete what had become inevitable to lift seas and could have been done sooner to the Icelandic public, but to take a complete turn in dealing with these people who have come to us in international institutions, in the media, not only here on land, but in many parts of the world, and even trying to interfere with the final election in Iceland. The U-minent to these parties is to yield, yield, to be exact, I think, a respectable president. Why does the government label itself in this way in this way in the morning? Secretary of finance for the hedge fund in New York? How is it, a respectable president, that the government did not follow the plan that had been originally agreed to dislodge the Icelandic public from the seas and those who would not play along with it, those who were going to exploit Iceland for economic trouble, would be left waiting. It wasn't just something that was discussed in a campaign, it was actually a promise given when an invitation was issued and claimed by the court. Secretary of finance, this is now the highest. Prime Ministers, and others that those who did not share, those who did not play, would be left to wait; they would be locked up; they would not be able to make money on it; they would be left here even for decades, if not for decades. Some listened to the words of the minister and of others, the Secret Bank, and took the initiative to go out of the market. Others decided to take another route. In fact, there was something about it, a respectable president, that men had first intended to participate in this campaign, but at the last moment, it ceased for some reason. But these members decided to take the lead in fighting with the Icelandic government, trusting that the solidarity could be broken, that the government could be turned over. To do this, they used various methods, some familiar, some familiar sites. It was advertised in local newspapers for the elections, as well as in Denmark and the United States, and probably beyond. They tried to distribute false stories. There were written articles in the local newspaper and elsewhere, and it was secretly tried to use the Icelandic government, the local government, the pressure, to force them to give up these basics. A member of the board, Óli Björn Kárason, described the scene that ensured the success that has been achieved; yielded to the Supreme Court, yielded our chances of defending Iceland and Iceland's interests. It was left behind. It was turned aside from the policy of defending mainly the public, and it was decided to make a special agreement with the hedge fund that had used all the means to achieve what this government has now given them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-13-43.u22	A respectable president. The date of the year has been mentioned here. I was also present at the council when the emergency law was passed. Everything was a mess. It was a necessity, and many have worked hard to eliminate it. I'm here to name men who were afraid to make decisions, men from different categories. It was Geir H. Haarde, former prime minister, and the president behind me who dared make decisions, decisions that we could not know at all, they or others, that were right or wrong, but the decisions had to be made. This question has been asked what kind of agreement was made with an amnesty owner. The arrangement offers them an offer to purchase from their property at 137.50 euro. If they go to the offer, we've got a deal. Well, that's not the point. It has been said that there were no stage photographs, but at a meeting of difficulty. Last night, the Economic and Business Committee let me tell you what could happen. Of course, the late banker could not do that, he is committed because he is making a decision on growth later in the week. It knew what it was. Of course, members of the committee. But I thought about it and predicted that interest will decline as a result of that decision. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson asked if the person standing here had lied. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator read further in the talk he referred to then would have seen that I said exactly that I was hoping that the oceans would be lifted as soon as possible. It couldn't be much sooner, huh? Senator. Will a Cub Council Be Accepted Without Discussion? Of course, it will not be recorded without discussion. It's not going to be recorded without a fix. But I agree with a great many members of the council here that the dollar has not really been a friend to us. Thank you. Today, members of the Parliament for a business discussion and are happy that the council has discussed this. It is a joy to hear the harmony that exists when the oceans are lifted. The point is that we Icelanders can be happy from the table, and now the main thing is that we can finish this table, that we no longer have to be thinking about the seas. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson asked if I thought this day was supposed to be a flag from now on. I thank him for the good idea. I'll fly you tomorrow. I say again, congratulations.
