ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u1	The surprising report was yesterday that Eiður Guðnason, former general and minister, had become very selective in his home. Monday, 30th January, 77 years old. In Reykjavík, November 7, 1939, Dr. Svanberg Guðnason was born. Parents were Guðni Guðmundsson, a laborer there, and his wife, Þóranna Guðjónna, the Lilja of a Guðjónsdóttir. He completed a student exam from the University of High School in Reykjavík in 1959, studying political science at the University of Delaware, U.S.A., for a year and then finished a BA test in English and English literature from the University of Iceland in 1967. He was a legal judge and document translator from English. A late Guðnason, a journalist at the German newspaper, became only in his early 20's, but in 1967, he was a reporter for the newly formed Icelandic television news. He was already known nationally in that work, in popular and well - prepared visitors in every country's living room. As a result, in 1978 we were involved in political degradation, accepted Eiður, said goodbye to journalism, and presented for the Federal Party in the Western District. He was given a great amount of food, both in re-election and elections, and he lived in a large group of members of the Allied Party after the election that year. Then for a continuous period of 15 years, he served at the General Assembly, a total of 17 legislators. In 1991, Enar Guðnason became Environment Minister and Norse co-worker of the Self - Opportunity Administration and thus served as minister for about two years. In fact, about the mid - 1993 year, Dr. Eiður gave up both Congress and Ministership and became an ambassador to Iceland in Norway. In five years, at a delicate time in his dealings with the countries, he served until he left, in 2001, to Winnipeg, Canada, as prime minister of Iceland. He later became ambassadors in Beijing, but in 2007 he concluded his career as the first messenger of the Icelanders in Thorsbourg in the Faeroe Islands. E Eiður, the son of Guðnason was an active senator and a powerful spokesman for his district and voters. He was chairman of the Democratic Party's headquarters of the 19833/4199 C.E., very active in Norwegian cooperation during his years of Congress but also a member of other international committees. At the conference of 1979,1980, he was chairman of a legal committee, even though a government opponent was. As a senator, he made the most of his education and culture. In the days of his journalist, Eiur Guðnason wrote extensively in newspaper and translated foreign languages, and as a television broadcaster, his voice and language became known and fancied. He won a 1974 award from the Mother's Fund of editor Björn Jónsson. Throughout the years, Eiður was very interested in Icelandic culture and wrote about his interests in the late days of the Internet, until the last day. The Eiður son of Guðnason was a socialist, always a Boy Scout, and was involved in many associates and organizations. He will become everyone he met, whether in the press, on television, on the scene of the General or Government, as well as in the foreign service, a memorable man for his hard work, sincerity, and strong opinions. A zealous participant in the social talk and with excellent labor, he now decides to make a very unexpected scene. I ask a world of council to remember Eiður the son of Guðnason by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u2	To answer, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and equality ministers, foreign ministers, transport and local government ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u3	Madam President. Recently there has been a private application to get a contract with Iceland's Health Insurance to open up a new operation involving specialized surgery and beds department for up to five days. In reality, this could be called a private hospital, since both surgeons and the privateist, the clinical community, view the operation as a specialised hospital service. If this is the way the function will be defined, it will require the highest level of activity. A decision must be made by a health secretary whether to permit the operation. Thus, for a minister there is a huge decision that can irreversibly affect Icelandic health systems and, in fact, be a fundamental change in Icelandic health care. It's a contrast, to balance, to the living room management of independent expert physicians, to monotonies, and to what's going on here, because it's actually going into the core operations of the Land Hospital, and to the subsequent incidents of other hospitals across the country. If the decision is made to negotiate this operation, it is being made to transfer money from the government to the private person, since there is no room to add any money to the health system at times where political solidity would have had to be established to promote the public health system, especially the national hospital, which is overcrowded and subversive. It is often forgotten in this discussion that there are only 338 thousand Icelanders. Compared with millions of communities, the danger here is that building such a specialized service in one place will undermine it elsewhere. It is unwise to place energy and money in this way at the same time as we need to concentrate on strengthening the public health systems that some 80% of the population want to continue in a social service. Not to be overlooked is the role of the National Hospital as an education institution, a university hospital. I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister whether we cannot trust that he will protect the public health system. Of course, I would like to hear him take a firm stand against these private hospital plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. A lot of discussion has been made about the clinical application during the last days, and there has been a lot of discussion about denaturation in this activity. But I find it important in the discussion to remind me that the clinical community is not a new member of the needle but has been in business for some year and services, as agreed by the Department of Health at the Reykjavík Medical Association, to take simple steps for some year. As a result, she is in a position similar to that of other experts who work at a simpler market. It is true that this is a work permit and the surgeon's opinion of a situation in which more complex measures have been implemented so far only in public hospitals. Legally, the surgeon's duty is to take out the situation and the activities of the clinical community as they have. This is not to say that there was no decision to negotiate with the clinical community on such public action. Regarding more complex operations, the public has made a chief deal with public hospitals, the Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, and to some extent the local hospital, such as Ak Aranei, but no other decision has been made regarding the clinical situation. My time is up, so I have to answer the rest of the inquiry in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u5	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for ripping the case here, though there is no answer to the question I asked. It is now, as mentioned in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, that surgeon has defined this as a specialised hospital service. It was also shown by the highest. A minister who had begun to negotiate with the clinical community would be a fundamental policy change, for so far, the government has only been negotiated with such complex hospital services. I want to mention here that in the Treaty Treaty of a new government, it is said to shape a global health policy. So, first of all, I want to say that I believe that such a policy will be developed before such fundamental policy changes are determined and that it will be developed in a good conversation both within the council and outside as much as most parties. Second, I'd like to say that I don't envy the highest. Ministers of this decision because it comes with a very heavy political responsibility. [[The president calls.]] But I sure hope to the highest. A minister looks to it as a major political decision to move in this way the public tax from the public system to the private person and at the same time make a decision on basic policy changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u6	A respectable president. I can say with what. A member of the body of elders on the basis of the importance of a complete health policy is made clear in the government covenant. At that time, the whole health system needs to be looked at as it is. I think it's really deep this year. A senator to understand my words, as if here were a basic policy change, because, of course, government has made agreements with private citizens. A large proportion of health care services are already fired by private agents, autologous institutions, experts, etc. More than anything else, regular agreements have been made about the simpler activities of an enterprise in relation to the waiting list program that has been going on and will continue for two more years. I can assure you what. A senator and a body of council members that the minister currently stands will not make fundamental changes in the health system. [[The president calls.]] That's not gonna happen. My first task is to work on a global health policy before anything else can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u7	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for starting this discussion, but I have questions similar to the highest. Secretary of health. In view of the fact that many times the overwhelming majority of Icelanders do not want a personal health - care system, I would like to ask the highest degree. Health Minister if he thinks it is wise to pursue further privatisation policies within the medical system. And if so, whether he will maintain democratic practices and consult with the council or whether this is a decision he will make on his own. What's the minister's position to allow the clinicals to get legalized from the DRG system? The clinical situation needs to be met by a minister's employment permit or to have the U.S. health insurance authority to negotiate without the address of the Ministry, the Minister will have to grant leave as per Article 7. Health care? Will a minister have some evaluation of the impact of the arrival of the clinical community as hospital units on public health care in Iceland? Both human resources, abilities, and entrances? If so, what kind of food, and who will perform it? What is the formal decision-making process involving Iceland's Health Insurance, and how is it decided whether the clinical record will be derived from this fund? So I'm asking questions, I know there's a lot of them. I hope it reaches the highest. Minister to answer all of them clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u8	Madam President. Thanks for the inquiry. My answers are similar to what they were asking. A senator who asked before. It is now that much of Iceland's health services are made by private sources, experts, and autodiversaries when it comes especially to aging services. When it comes to experts and their actions, etc. they are on the basis of a contract with the NYC. In itself, it would not be easy to change that system overnight. Regarding the clinical function, as I said in the previous response, the clinical function has been performed on the basis of this contract and has taken more basic measures as other clinics have done. To take on larger and more complex measures, a contract with Iceland's health insurance would have to be made by the Ministry and by my political guardianship as health secretary to assign such agreements to Iceland's health insurance. It is clear that such things would never be done except by law and by law, including, of course, by law. the laws that say that major changes will not be made different from taking into account the overall health system and the ability of the public health system, including the Land Hospital, to provide services. Of course, such a decision would never be different from the decision that the law was taken in full consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u9	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of health for these answers. But I have two questions. That's what food is for the highest. Ministers that we are, in effect, living largely in private health care systems now but not socially operating health systems? And then I'd also like to be overexcited to hear from the highest level. Minister if he intends to go to these policies, go into further private business, and whether he will consult with the council, or whether he thinks he has the authority to do it alone, whether this is not a business to come in here, and we need to discuss further matters of private interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u10	Madam President. I want to reiterate my answers that it is not my intention to make major changes in Iceland's health system. It is not my intention to privatize the system or expand a marvelous private operation in the system. Clearly, the Icelandic health - care system is a public health - care system in such a way that public funds pay most of the health care. It is done under the supervision and responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Public Affairs. There is no intention of me, or anyone else, I think, and no political will to make changes there. On the other hand, I have been trying to explain that part of a business and work in the Icelandic health system is already produced by both private and private institutions, especially when it comes to aging services, but also by independent experts and their companies. But all of this is done by public funds of monitoring, oversight, and decision of the Ministry of Health and by public health authorities. [[The president calls.]] It does not mean that there is any change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u11	V.E.G. President. One factor that has a significant impact on the survival of the garden is the high electrical price to be paid by gardeners. I visited garden farmers recently, and it also showed that a renewal in the profession is very low, mainly due to high investment costs and high - quality yields because of this high electrical price. We're bringing in more than 25 of you. a ton of vegetables as measured by 2015 and growing about 15 points. a ton of its own, there's definitely a lot of tracts. This matter is by no means new, and it has often been discussed in this room. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson proposed to form a synonym along with other candidate members of the Agency for the 138th Congress adopted. With it, the General decided to hide the Minister of Industrial Affairs to explore ways to reduce the electricity cost of gardening, especially distribution costs. The proposal went from the minister to the committee, but since then nothing has been asked and nothing came from the Ministry on this matter, according to the evidence I have under my control. Again, the matter was discussed at the 144th Parliament in oral inquiry to the minister Ragnheiður of the Elín Árnadóttir. In reply, the secretary, by permission of the president, says: Since the time I took up my current office, however, the Ministry has had some meetings, either myself or my employees, with representatives of garden farmers, and with them in good cooperation. The development of electrical power prices for garden farmers has been considered there, their position compared to that of other electronic user users in the country, and the ideas they have proposed to change the currency due to the electrical exchange for them. This work is still going on, but there is no evidence at this time, for there is more than one way to meet these views. That was 2014. So, in the end, I would like to ask the highest. Industrial Minister: 1st Where is this job at the Ministry? 2. What vision does a minister have of the matter, is it intended to promote the reduction of electricity prices to farmers? 3. Would it be possible to change electronic law if it is available so that the necessary changes can be made to a registrational, thus ensuring the survival of the garden?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u12	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. First, I'd like to mention that electroenergy prices to garden farmers are very heavily submerged. The power market is a competitive market, but gardeners have other laws. I want to agree with what. A senator says that agriculture and food production have great opportunities. Of course, I'm willing to do what I can in my Ministry to help with even more food production in this country. I'm sure we have a lot of time in there. That's fine. I don't know that there is a job going on in the Ministry to reduce this price further, but I certainly haven't got a presentation on all groups or all the government committees yet. I'm going to meet them myself for a while. A senator mentioned and tore, so, of course, they will communicate their views, and I can ask further questions. I hope there's something good to do. But I'm not gonna stand here, and I promise you there'll be some major change of course. I simply don't have a position for the present, but I restate on this with opportunities for agriculture and food production and especially with regard to garden farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u13	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister for a good answer and, in particular, to feel that she is interested in this matter. So I have high hopes that she will use it and find ways, because as I said in my speech earlier, the matter has already been discussed with some stewards. I find it very strange when I met a gardener that they always say the same thing: it's the Minister's will, that's a sincere desire to change. And I'm asking, "Why haven't we changed this yet? " Well, it's just Richard's in some excel document and it's not a thing to change. Now we have a new minister, a powerful minister. I hope she has a heart for this matter. Electricity is now a major source of subsidies to garden farmers. It's about how gardeners want special taxation. They now pay for electrical energy using the home planet, which is highly abnormal for the production they are working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u14	I'm gonna thank you for the urgency and reiterate what I said. Of course, you have to keep in mind that the subsidies are very serious. But I will not stand in the way of anything that can be done. Hopefully, the work can either be completed or at least a decision can be made. There is little more fatigue for individuals who are trying to take on a valuable creation to see that some obstacles are attached to a committee. At times, it is better to get an answer. I'll take this into consideration, and I'm interested in this interest, hoping that I'll be able to take advantage of one thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u15	Madam President. I will cut down the same knees as the two senators who began the discussion today. Medical services have been prominent in the recent discussions at the General Assembly. Reports of the core policy change in the implementation of the service have shaken the community somewhat, i.e. to bring private staff to the business of specialised hospitals to make money on it. There are highways that are not at the end, highways as foreign nations, not far from us, know and do not measure up. Still, 80% of the people are being asked in surveys: We want health care to be organized and public employment. The people have a firm view. Official health systems are efficient and unable to operate fully. A good position on well - equipped medical institutions belonging to the government's subsidiary trades is unfashionable. These institutions call for more projects. There is no overall organization for the implementation of health care services in the country and the usefulness and political emphasis of the local minister. Fire is driven before the wind. For the council there is a proposal for a health plan or for the health - care programme in the whole country, as well as for the council a bill to legalize the health insurance laws that focus on factors that we discuss. That's why I'm going to ask the highest question. Minister of two questions. One of these has now been identified in part: Once it has been described, will Minister for Ministers really intend to step up giving a private health - care centre permit for hospital work in accordance with an existing application? And also: In view of the fact that one of the main roles of surgeon generals is giving counsel to ministers and other government officials in the local language field, I ask: Has the Minister requested to inform the surgeon whether this office is considered a reasonable, successful, and practical way for the Icelandic health - care system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There are many things that have already been said in my comments on this matter. I'm not gonna repeat that. But, hey. A senator will direct me to two questions. In fact, they're pretty easy to answer. He asks if a minister intends to grant permission for hospital services. The minister hasn't decided, no. It is clear that I have an obligation, responsibility, and even a responsibility. The legal obligation to take into account the whole health system before making important decisions. I will fulfill my duty. I haven't asked the surgeon's permission for such a decision in particular, but it's not in my lake, so they say. I'd like to agree with the basics mentioned in the case of the day. The senator and other senators earlier, that it's very important, so I'll use my language. A senator, that the health system in Iceland is organized and operated by public authorities. It's basically a prince. I'd like to put three main princes in charge of all health care services in Iceland, i.e. that access is good and equal for all Icelanders regardless of origin, economy, habitat, etc.; that the quality of the service is defined and clear, and at expense, i.e. If you're careful, be careful. It's basically a prince. [[The president calls.]] I've got to get back to an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u17	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I would like to make a decision regarding the principal role of surgeon surgeon general. It's not going to be the highest. A minister looks for the opinion of this principal health - care counselor to see if he considers this a reasonable way, a reasonable development, and a recommendation for us in Iceland in our current situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u18	Madam President. Yes, it is clear that a minister and I here will seek the opinion of a surgeon in the event that I would like to examine basic changes. I would still like to stress, as noted at the benefit of my meeting with the Allied Health Committee last morning, putting together a comprehensive health policy, as shown in a government contract. I'll work at that job and I've already begun planning that kind of work. And I want to, so I'll answer the question, too. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who asked me that I could not answer, work such policies on a wide range of grounds, pursue as far as possible is a democratic practice, and find wide access to that work. As noted at a meeting with a welfare committee this morning, I give high priority to cooperation in that work. [[The president calls.]] But to answer the question, it is not a question that, of course, a minister will seek the opinion of a surgeon before making some fundamental changes in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u19	A respectable president. On July 1, 2015, a resolution was adopted at a council meeting that begins, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers of the State, in cooperation with partners and institutions, to have the safe transport of trains between the Chefvík airport and Reykjavík on the other hand, and a light - reading system within the capital area. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was the first apostle to travel. A senator and a chief. The current health minister, Óttarr Proppé, who was before me. Among those who agreed to this conclusion was the highest. Secretary of transportation and district, Jón Gunnarsson, and, indeed, Deputy Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson. According to my data, nothing has been done with this conclusion, no practical consideration has been made. In December a contract adopted to establish a so - called city line, the high - quality network of public transport, which they consider to be the largest common task of rural society in the capital area. SSH agreement requires discussion with the State Department, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Vega program for formal cooperation on the joint funding and construction of the city line, including in accordance with SSH agreement and the Road Type, dated April 17, 2015, and after events of the establishment of a preparatory society. This rhymes well with the government covenant, which says, by permission of the president: There will be potential for cooperation with the rural areas in the capital area, by ◯Borg Line, to be studied. I'd like to ask the highest. Transport and Regional Minister: Will he take advantage of the practical consideration he approved for a council in 2015? It's the highest. A minister agreed that the construction of a city line is one of the best investments to ease the traffic load in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u20	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry from what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. There's been some work going on, maybe not directly under the ministry, of course, but on the Southnes and on the other side of other sources of possible train transport between Keflavík and the capital area. There is a planned meeting in the Ministry during the next few days with those who have been involved in the economic work and the ideas proposed in that field. So I will wait to express myself on the subject in itself how I feel about this solution. I think it's worth all the attention, and I'll have a whole mind to look at it. These differing views and information have been developed. But there's some kind of work that I think is probably a good idea we're going over and we're looking at a possibility. With regard to the city line, the importance of this project seems to be a great partnership among rural communities in the capital area. We remember in the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs that starts talking with the rural community on this matter in particular. This has been shown in my talks to a special councilman at the time I've been a minister, but he's short as they know. I've declared my will so we can sit over it and look at it. I think there are many important steps to take in improving public transportation and that this can become part of the solution to the transport problems we face in the capital area. But that alone will not solve the problem altogether if you look beyond the length of time, so you do not watch it as normal for any other project to be postponed. There has to be some interaction between transport improvements here in this area, while we try to take major steps in public transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of clear and clear answers. It is good to know that we share an opinion of the importance of the building of public transport in the capital area. It must be a challenge for all of us in this room, especially when we have climate goals in mind to reduce emissions. It would be nice to examine who in this room came to work, even alone in a car, except for perhaps the highest. Ministers with drivers who may not have been alone. I don't know what that opinion would reveal about how we will be able to fulfill our role in achieving our climate goal. I'd like to ask the highest. Transport and Regional Minister directly: Will he take advantage of the money being put on this project and then when?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u22	A respectable president. Of course, it is a foundation, or part of thinking of how we can reduce pollution by means of climate targets in order to promote public transport, although many other things are involved and need to be done. Yes, it's interesting to know how many people come to work. It is also interesting to know what steps have taken in recent years. A few years ago, the minister himself took steps to convert his relatively high - fueled car, a jeep, into a record car, and thus cost a large amount of money. In fact, he is trying to get rid of that car today and buy a car's rent. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, this is very important. Would I support the financial support of this project? Clearly, nothing happens without them. Clearly, we are about to participate in these discussions with a view to how we can get the most results in the most practical way. But there are other factors. This, of course, raises questions about e.g. The decision of the city authorities that we have read about in the media today is to reduce the speed of traffic in certain areas of the capital, without being observed in the media, with police, Roadmaking, and others. [[The president calls.]] That criticism has been observed, including Icelandic car owners' partner that this can increase the rate of road pollution in this area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u23	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 95/2000, of birth and parentorof, with subsequent changes, and law No. 113/1990 on insurance bills, with subsequent changes. This is one of the three priority classes of Congress on the left movement, a green bid for this recent assembly. Here's the bottom line. It's the prolongation of your maternity. Of course, it has been one of the main objectives of the community talk for years, on the other hand, of extending the ore and of raising the amount. As the United States of Congress is known, the Mosaic Law emphasizes the increase of the money in the current government. However, it does not really cover the extension of the worm, although I have read an interview at the highest level. Minister of the Hour, if I recall correctly this morning, as he agrees with the factors that are covering the gap between the nursery and the birthworm. It is also a matter of great importance that we, as members of a council of the left greens, and members of other classes also have emphasized that society has something to face, that children from the end of birth vacations until the schools are actually taking over are the responsibility of their parents alone because society is not involved in the lives of a family of children of this age, unfortunately. It's an unacceptable situation. The bill is presented in an attempt to cover this more intensive discussion at the General Assembly. I hope that when we have less and closer government parts but often before there's space for looking at priorities that are not necessarily the focus of the present government but the emphasis that may have a strength over the lines of government and government, as could be on this matter. The bill suggests changes in birth and parental law that the court increases from the current nine months to twelve months in a two - step process, as stated in 2018-2019. If the bill is legal, the total duration of birth and parentorolfs will be 11 months 2018 and 12 months in 2019. It is assumed that the right to delivery would be divided between parents that each parent has the right to five months but has two months in common and can divide it as he pleases. This leads to the proposal of a future policy group in the birth orcs that were published in the March year report. Here I want to know that there may be some opinions and opinions. While the bill was being built at a convention of the left greens, there was a view that it might be closer to the fact that four and four months would be bound to the difference between parent and other arrangements for these exchanges and that it was a special consideration to the viewpoints of single parents and some other viewpoints as to which the nature of the matter is not discussed here, for which it is a bill, but I believe that there is good reason to do so. The welfare committee will consider the situation. But here, this option is chosen, in accordance with the recommendations of the above - mentioned staff. A birth and parent's stock is as it is known to be paid for by a breeding or holiday fund fund fund fund fund funded by remuneration fees. According to Section 5. a law on insurance is now adding 0.65% of the currency to the birth policy fund. In Comb 4. the bill recommended here is suggested to increase this ratio to the same level as the relative increase in birth and parentoral lofs. Therefore, it is not expected that an increase in the overall insurance spending rate now 6.85% would be expected. Rather, the change proposed merely to include a larger proportion of them to the birth of holiday funds and therefore does not include an increase in tax recovery, but includes a review of the priorities of public projects. As shown in a bill report, during the fall of 2008, the rate of economic failure was greatly reduced by government spending, including pay on maternity spending. The Court's decision on the basis of the Treaty was always made with that foreword - and the one here in the government that had to make decisions about these actions - that they would be taken back as quickly as the interests of the state's funds improved. An end to the restoration of the birthor was as early as 2012, when the then welfare minister proposed a bill to legalize the law of No. 95/2000, of birth and parentorof, with subsequent changes, assuming an increase in the maximum payment of the food reserve and the prolongation of the 9 months or 12 months or so in terms of the bill presented here. In fact, the prime minister of welfare became law No. 143/2012, in force on January 1, 2013, the legal improvements involved were canceled by law No. 140/2013, on various grounds of the 2014 budget, compare the 3rd case at the 143th legislature Council. Thus, leading members of the then ruling government showed their stand for this action at that time by an independent party and by a forward group. Of course, I expect the views discussed here many times, both in the leading of elections and as well as in the debate on the formation of a new government, the viewpoints of young people being elected, to outweigh those they have done for many years, especially because we see that the situation and ideal of young people in Iceland is a major concern. We know that young people prefer to live on a variety of factors. One of them is a position of housing, one of which is the loan fund of Icelandic students and the possibility of education regardless of our economic status, and part of this choice, this position of living in Iceland, is the position of baby parents, the ideals we make for our youngest families. Of course, it is part of this classic conflict between rural society and the state and the question about where the cost is to land, that this interval has not yet been bridged. At the same time, it is only an ideal representative of both the rural and the capital cities to solve the problem that is good for the families of young children and thus for the children themselves. A respectable president. A birthworm is shorter in this country than it is in neighboring countries. That's the opinion of the carriers of this bill, and I expect we have more of them. The General, also in the order of the administrations, that this is an important matter for the welfare and welfare of young families, is not to be expected. The society can afford to improve the quality and situation of infants and their parents. It is important that we view such matters as a child's choice, not just a parent's discretion. There is a special and significant concern in Iceland that there is a high probability of poverty among children, much more than in the countries around us. We should be especially concerned with choosing our own children and the environment in which they live and grow up. By improving the situation of young children and their parents, we are actually improving our community as a whole. After all, there is the foundation. It is where we value the quality of society, how we have the smallest of our people, whether they are children or people with some kind of problem. Perhaps it is a good pair of glasses to put on your nose during the day for us who are working on legislative jobs trying to try to put us in the position of those who do not have power. It truly is the ideal interest of children. The change in this bill involves the change in taxation. Thus, it must be trusted that governments will see the possibility to establish this priorities in the interests of young children and their parents, who share this increase in maternity spending on insurance bills. A respectable president. I expect the bill to go to what? A well - being committee and there receive material and detailed coverage and, of course, hope that this case will have extensive support in the General Assembly, and it will be the law of the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u24	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech and rejoices that a proposal to prolong the birthworm has come back. This was established by the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which was replaced by a new government in 2013. A similar proposal for a twelve - month extension, of course one step, and of the exchange of 5 to5.2 led a congregation of members of the United States into the fall of 2015. So I really agree with this proposal and support it. What I want to ask you. A senator in the middle is the financing. The change is expected to be within the insurance bill and the exchange account. But we are now looking ahead to the time when births are shrinking. It may be because we do not live well enough that young people, and they simply cannot afford to have children or put them off, and this proposal, of course, is important, but it is also of great importance in the economic situation of raising children again. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator whether it would have been an option for me when this proposal was made to simply pay it off from the state's budget but to keep the possibility of lowering my insurance, which I allow me to say that all classes of the Council have talked about being desirable and good for a small and medium-sized company.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u25	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, all equal members of the General Assembly are the supporters of this proposal. That is true of the left movement a green supply, and, of course, members of the United States and other members of the United States, who want to be known by the equation and socialism here at the General Assembly - and here I nominate to the right or to the left in the Senate Hall. It is true to ask a question. The senator that this proposal is balanced, i.e. It suggests a measure of expenses and a way to finance this arrangement. I believe, and as noted, in the extensive and repeated presentation of the left movement, either in the administrative business, in the process of election action or in what it is, we have open eyes and fearlessness to be ready to make money for a better community. We've always been ready to do so. I think it's a very good option to make a provision of this kind of government funds. I realize that the discussion about the status of the insurance bill has been rich and high, with high expectations of reducing it. However, here it is suggested that, according to the current insurance status, these changes can be addressed based on the box. This is another example of one of the responsible proposals and proposals of our council of the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not making notes that there is a tip on how to make money for the proposal. I'm certainly not criticizing it. But I strongly suggest that when this is reviewed, it will be considered and evaluated, not only on social foundations, but also on economics and seen how important it is for us that births go back to increase, in economic terms. I want to ask you why. A senator. She was here talking about the communities. When we discuss the need to bridge the gap, they need to extend their birthworm so that the gap is shorter between birthday orcs and nurserys, of course, it's the responsibility of the local community. How can you tell? A senator of this interaction? It recommends that the insurance bill be used to finance the Kingdom part, but how does it get involved? Perhaps the rurals will say that if the bill is approved, the gray book will cover the country's grey zone and its rural society. Maybe it hasn't been all over, but I'll let me throw this question forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u27	President. I'm reminded that the first session of the focus of the left movement was a green project during the last term, a Senate case covering the gap, i.e. to hide their welfare minister, social and housing minister, to have an assessment of the status and the potential for bridgeing this gap. On the basis of the proposal, which was then adopted at that council, 2013◯2014, a report on these matters was submitted. You're right. A senator mentions, one of the big cases there is, of course, a income party, i.e. The cost options of the local community in this matter. This, of course, is part of something that needs considerable strength. Of course, the basic services of the local community involved in the service of the families are abdicating. [[The president calls.]] It is highly suspicious that the state is paying off debt at the same time as the communities are collecting it, when these are the two sides of the government, both of which are intended to serve in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u28	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir and what? A council of greener green for this good case that I support as a whole. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " The senator is presented with a modification of the law on birth and parentorof the right to increase from the current nine months to twelve months in two steps between 2018 and 2018. And it is assumed that the right to delivery would be divided between parents that each parent has the right to five months but has two months in common and that he can divide them as he pleases. That's very good. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir The Svandís of Svavarsdóttir had some viewpoints that involved this law in the implementation of the council. I think that all of us agree on the importance of both parents fully using their right to birthworm, thus contributing to equality, and the increasing potential for the baby, the subject of the baby, to enjoy together with both parents. I have seen a troubled professional - because I myself had a lot to ask about and was only putting up with people who know - traders, midwives, worried and watching. magazines to the state of single - parent families. Let's say, for example. Mothers who do not have mates and cannot consult with them, and their existence is not present in the system. Were there any objections to meeting attendance to meet the single parents who are in such a position? Because these professionals see the single parents in such positions going back to the job market quickly and actually not completing the rights they have for birth, according to the laws that are in force today. I just wanted to start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u29	President. Thank you. paritaprevir First, Lára Arnardóttir for declaring support. As I took the stand and took the lead in my history earlier, I believe that this matter of Congress has already occurred when a considerable amount of support is provided in the General Assembly. I would also like to state that it is presented as a basis for a discussion on the Senate Committee. I and I on the left green side would like to try to control this important thing for the families of our country, but it's not exactly that these rules are cut down, as they are placed here. That is to picture the anxiety. A senator mentioned. This, of course, would have to be done in a clear and defined way how to meet the groups that do not fit in with the core family definition, some of which are highly conservative, compared with the variety of family types in modern society. Of course, there is something that is not discussed in any way, either the original text or the report. I want to thank you. A senator for mentioning what attracts single - parent positions. Of course, there are also other family types that could fall between ships and docks in such a stiff frame of the bill as it is submitted. I expect that. The welfare committee will examine these and other viewpoints in a wide variety of family types.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter for very good answers. I believe this matter of Congress is a very good basis for working at what point. The welfare committee. I'm sitting right there. The welfare committees, and they look forward to dealing with this and the discussion and to see what possibilities we have to make the legislation even more flexible if possible. This is a very important matter, and it is closely linked to bridgeing the gap between high school and birthday school because we all know and know the stress that can become on family members of the country when they wonder how to get things together at a certain time. We can look at it in a greater sense that it affects many people in many areas, only on our own feelings. This is very good, and I look forward to dealing with it on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u31	President. I still appreciate your support. Senator. I'd also like to mention, because I didn't like to do it before as a response to an answer. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter that there may be any reason to, and I just ask the welfare committee to consider it, to get a review of the matter from which. The Economic and Business Committee, which contributes to both economic and, of course, the aspects of the provision of the insurance. This is one of the issues that run a little contrary to the committee. I'd like to encourage you. A welfare committee to pay particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to start by celebrating this bill. This is great. I've felt it on my own how little time it is as it is now when I had my baby and had six months and looked forward to going to work in six months, and this tiny pilfer, I didn't think it was time to leave her. It is vital that we look at this from not just the rights of parents but also the rights of the child in order to have access to his parents. It's often forgotten to watch it from the rights of children. I'd also like to thank Lára Arnardóttir for her inquiry, which really was what I was going to ask. As a single mother, I ask her why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir agrees with the idea that a single parent can pick up all this time if the father is not there to take his five months. I suppose there was some sort of estimate at the expense of this bill, and I wondered if it would have any significant impact on the cost, whether it would be too expensive, or whether it might be an option. At any rate, I will put it to work within the welfare committee, and I eagerly look forward to a discussion there, that the possibility of a decision will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u33	President. Thank you. A senator for a positive attitude and the fundamental support of the matter. As we have seen, I have already discussed or approached the viewpoint of a variety of family types and, especially, the position of single parents or children born into such families. Because why? A senator asked about the cost of a meal if the way a single parent could go to the whole birth mine, I think it's perfectly normal to look at it. Of course, we must always be careful about the fundamental reasons for equality, i.e. that we are not moving the weight of a father's duty to take advantage of his birthmark to the primary purpose of his mother. This is, of course, the tension we face in the family that a father and mother and a newborn child begin. Because I've got some time and here's why. Senators who are in trouble. I would like to mention viewpoints that are not discussed in this bill and that are not in the report that attracts my birth strength, i.e. These were lay payment for those who fail to qualify for birthday vacations. They're the students or they're in some other system, so to speak, and they get quite low amounts of money to make a living. I've watched as young people are trying to get together for higher education and start a family, that these can become long and extremely difficult periods for young families. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilman Svandís Svavarsdóttir for bringing this point that is very important, too. I had a lot of trouble myself with the money I got at my birthbreak but was so lucky that I lived in such a situation that I paid very little rent and received much help from my family. But it is not possible to assume that everyone will live so well and have such a good situation. We must make sure that the legal environment is more equal in society and that people have the opportunity to be with their children and to raise them and afford to have children. I'd like to state that I'm very into the child's having the right to have more time with his father, it's absolutely necessary. I look forward to taking a look at this and getting more information on it and seeing where we're going on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u35	President. I'd like to agree with the views that go by. A senator's importance in changing the law is to reduce discrimination and increase the equation. I think it's a very important theme in all of our laws and reforms in the Icelandic legal environment because one of the biggest problems today is to reduce social discrimination. That's why it's a matter even. displayed, to equalize the ideal family. Of course, they need to look especially at those who are not addressed in this matter, and I mentioned earlier, who are really not the ones who have or do not meet the requirements to receive birthday or maternity under these laws but who receive birth strength or other services that are far dependent on what can be considered to be a reliable economic environment for children during the first few months of their life.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for this proposal and for the discussion that we have here, and I'd like to explain my main thoughts. That's the way it was if I looked at an answer from the Mt. Social Ministry, Harðardóttir Hardydirdótttir, now converge. A senator, of those born in 2014, was 76% of fathers who made use of some kind of birth payment made of some kind of birth stock, whether it was maternity or birth strength, against nearly 97% of women. It's a three-quarter sirka. This number was 90% in 2004/2007. It has happened, I'm not gonna say another crash but we've gone back on this matter. Sadly, we go back year by year. Numbers per year in this case answer the question of the so-called supreme. Social Ministers suggest that men who take fathers' worms a year or so ago. That's too bad. It's a trend that needs to be turned around in my opinion. The question is, What caused this development? Of course, one of the banks'collapses was there, with considerable impact and so forth. Some things that were not easy to react to and other factors that may be at fault with someone. I can think of three factors. One is the economic impact of increasing unemployment and another sex disappears from the workforce to a greater extent than the other. Scene number two is a decrease in peak weights, a significant and dramatic decline. Here again, I will not protest the then existing government; she simply had to do things that she did not necessarily like but that she needed because of the fact that this position was in financial matters. Third, though, it is also the fact that sadly, at the time, the birth of a stock seemed to take a very decisive and aggressive action against fathers who took holiday. I know some of that in my own eyes. According to a query that I sent as a civilian to the local Ministry, one or another, a third of all men who had tried to take a birthworm at that time had had to be demanded of some kind of reimbursed. The seaman's high proportion was extremely sad. In most of the cases when you read the charges, it was not to mention that someone was accepting double payment. Rather, it was simply a violation of the rules of calculus set out. The government's shame was that it was all more and less - a government fund had to pay all of this back, following the WHO commission. Not that journey was positive, but it did not help with the image that it would be good for men to take a birthmark. But of these three things, we can do one of the most, that's the maximum pay we can pay. Knowing that I've been going through this process twice in the past few years and talking to my sex brothers is my experience that it's the maximum payment that people usually give the excuse that they either don't take a father's or take a support of a father's course. My main point is that it's where we have to take the main weight. Of course, there are many viewpoints that have been mentioned by both talks. ... aman,what. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, as well as others. They do not always have to be very compatible. It is a view of equality between the sexes of the work market, a view of the rights of children, a sense of justice on whether to spend money from a government fund to pay the high-payers money to be with their children. There are certain reasonable reasons that can be said to be true. There is a view that individuals should determine for themselves, that they should divide the metal to the full exactly as they please. My main point in this discussion is that they should contribute to the equal status of the sexes. For that reason, I believe that money is at first best used to raise the maximum pay. Of course, I find it normal to have some kind of peak so that those of all the highest income groups are now giving a warning about survival when a man of great estate has children according to she has and has heard. But this 99% or 95% of us who are out there somewhere, I don't know if I'm supposed to tell 'em at least any longer, in fact, that they're getting under this maximum number, so that it's not the opposite for people's decision. These are views that have, of course, been written before. When I read reviews about proposals received during the last council from members of the United States Congress, I would judge. Then came a review from the U.S. Women Department of Iceland, which says, with the permission of a president: Thus, the UN Women's Committee makes it a point to suggest that the change in the bill will be made that the funds that obviously have to be met without the objective of the bill will be prioritised in the interests of increased maternity requirements rather than the extension of the oven. I'm not going to pretend that the UN Women agrees, because it was another bill, and it was suggested that the roof be raised to 500 thousand already made up. I expect the manager as well as others to come up with his opinion when working on this bill. But my main point is that we should place the most large part of the money we put in these cases to raise the maximum pay until again the principle that men take their father's ordinary completely, their three months and more. And when that awareness has occurred, we can consider extending the orc. But I don't have that much more to say for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for a good and interesting speech. I'd like to ask if it's my correct understanding of his speech that he thinks it should be an unscrupulous independent right of fathers who are not at least except in part to overreachable. It must be the other side of the coin regarding both parents taking birthworm too, that the court is somehow independent on both sides and not overreachable. Of course, all of us know that when the roofs were brought down badly, we would be discouraged by saying, in each case, the income of the parent's diet to make use of its share of the maternity. The reality today is that men who are more harvested and therefore tend to take less maternity, are really logical when considering these items. I'd like to hear if I could. A senator does not believe that the independent right of fathers or the independent right of both parents, which, in large measure, is not overreachable, should not remain a part of this system. At any rate, I think so. In fact, I don't necessarily think that it should be to decide whether lifting the roof is more important, whether it's a average wage or 2/3 of a Senate sale or where it is that we should draw the line and extend it. This is not to be set in contrast. To me, both are extremely important. Finally, I just want to be sorry if I was to understand a talk. A senator would have stopped his childbearing. I think that's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u38	A respectable president. I'm going to leave the third part of this inquiry to be answered. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In terms of independence, it is my opinion that the independent right of men and women should be inexplicable. I may have wanted to go quite far in my efforts not to increase the number of exceptions given from that main point of view, though for each person often there is good evidence. Because equals and equal positions in the labour market are the main theme I look to in this matter, I would say that it should be a principle that the right is independent and not handed down. Now I can't remember another inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u39	Roofs, for how long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u40	Yes, roofs, for how long. It's a point of view. I think it's true, yes, it's possible to do both at once, but one is done at the expense of the other. If we decide to extend the ore to ten months or eleven, we could increase the peak less from the same amount. It is my position that it should for the first time put the greatest force in raising the peak.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. It seems that we agree fully with each other except this one, okay? A senator's clear view is that raising the roof is more important than extending his or her womb. I'd rather have this side by side as valid goals as taking those steps on both sides together. Besides, I don't think we're overgrown in any way. The calculations in the bill discussed here show that the insurance market has grown to such an extent that now a much lower proportion is needed to finance the length of birthworm for 12 months but would have been needed several years ago. When the birth stock was in trouble at the time of the crisis, it was time to increase his share in insurance fee to 1.22% if I remember correctly, at least 1.2% of the insurance company. Then he was halved to 0.62. Here it's considered enough to go to 0.9. We have to figure out that we're going to take less than one percentage of the insurance stocks into the birth orcs system. I think we could do this by making the government a step forward to sharing in the insurance bill. That's what the bill is all about. We're not talking about raising it. In fact, it is totally independent of what the State does to its share in the otherwise insurance fee. That's a different story. This is where the commercial income stock is being introduced, which I believe will continue to finance it. Of course, the equality is an important factor in this, even though many more matters here are here that I will make better use of in my speech. [[The president calls.]] But how happy it is that there is a basis for the system in this sense that both parents should have a separate right. It was a hallmark of the Icelandic system that called attention to land and elf, and many nations have adopted our example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u42	A respectable president. I don't know how much I should add in the second answer. I'm looking at 1st. about bill is the scene to provide basic lines of human opinion regarding bills, without necessarily examining individual numbers and percentages in this regard. Of course, nothing is free of charge. If we choose to make an earmark of just one part of the insurance bill, we will be less inclined to exchange for something else. Even if the insurance company is doing well now, it does not have to be forever. However, this commitment to increase will be. So I reiterate that this is my main objective in this case, that, as expected in government policy, money will at first be spent to increase the roof rather than extend the ore.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u43	Mr. President. What a fine discussion we have on this important matter! Sounds like more harmony than it does in its core. I have to agree with what was discussed last time, that this is about the basic rights of a child to socialize with his parents if at all possible, i.e. if both parents may be able to raise a child. We must not forget that this is primarily the matter, not the right of the parents. Although it is the other side of the coin, this is the child's right to associate with his parents. I also agree that we should go to the earth with caution in increasing the number of extras in this subject. Of course, our community changes regularly, and we can always look at the law from it, and it's very necessary, but I don't think I would support changing the rights of single parents into that one parent can take all the birthworm. I don't think that's a good approach. I would like to approach the status of single parents based on other factors in the context rather than on the birthworm by directly preventing both parents from taking birthlords. It is well stated in the law that if this is the case, whether because of death or the like, a single parent may receive additional payment. I also agree fully with the decision to raise payment on maternity vacations. I think it was very necessary, because as we have seen, the number of men taking maternity has decreased. This is not good, for the fund's goal was to draw them into the role of enjoying association with their newborn babies. When there were inevitable reductions in income targets after the crash, such as so many other factors, fathers would be reduced to obstetrics. It was also disappointing that standards should not be raised until the last government proved to be true. Moreover, it was disappointing when income stock was halved at that time instead of building well on the insurance bill. Although the fund's status is fine right right now, the planned reduction in the insurance bill is still and can be asked whether it is good or wise to keep it intact and rather try to increase the amount of money paid by the donor to make it possible, as mentioned above, to extend the birth mines as soon as we plan for continued potential increases in payment on the parents. It is both a decision related to making and a sexual decision. That is why we need to try to correct the birthworm system in line with the original purpose of equalizing the parents'position to take on a maternity vacation. It is also out of harmony with the ideal view of equality to impair or to build up for the food or food reserve, thus allowing women to stay out of a workforce longer than men, as they have been. We'll hold on to the pay grade we've wrestled and we're still dealing with. I think we should rather build up this fund and make sure that a child can have a good time with both parents. We need to make good progress when we rebuild the system so that it will be as it was spoken of in 2012 that it should be, when it was presented with a modified basis. It was spoken as if both could not happen at the same time, raising the roof of payment, and extending the holiday period. I don't agree with that. Despite 500,000 bucks. If not a huge amount of money is made by many, it is important, especially for many young people who are covering their heads with a roof, even recently graduated, and who are born. If so, we may need to do more. We need to change the balance of income with regard to the child reforms. We can also do so with younger ones who are putting roofs over their heads. We can meet children in many ways other than the birthworm. I remember that when we discussed the United States proposal at the last assembly, it was said that young mothers felt that it was difficult to survive the then offered ordinarily, even when they trusted not to live alone but to live in their parents'homes. I don't think it's going to be equal in any way by taking someone else's rights away but rather trying to bridge the gap with orlof's length up to a nursery so that both parents have the opportunity to enjoy a happy time with their young child. The number of births has decreased, the morning light is due to both increasing life span and much higher in the labour market, which has led to older age when they have children. At the same time, fathers have not taken or cut their babies because of their credit criteria. This is important to all parents, whether they are young or older. Hv. A senator spoke about what to do with income or maternity. If you have more than a million a month, don't you think it's all right that your birthworm gets damaged? While we would like to match everyone's right to birthworm, we would rather think that there will be an opportunity to enjoy a full delivery course and to take advantage of the entire delivery period. People with a high income generally have better space for it, and it makes it easier for them to earn a certain amount of time than people who are at the lower end of the income market, especially younger people who may be newly graduated with student loans and not make a huge salary. When we consider how we can balance our situation, and who can do this, I want to look at the matter primarily; the birthworm, the child's settlements, the growth benefits, all the help you can give your parents; the person's position, i.e. have a score. I find it wise, for unfortunately, those who are worse at work after they have a child and look for other ways to place their child, care for family members, or anything like that, in order to have a good time at it. That's why I think we should make this about the baby and the parents'chance to enjoy it. We can do so in many ways other than this. True, there were gray areas, rural areas, and other such. I couldn't quite see what it was like, didn't quite figure it out, unless it should come through housing support or other support for single parents or parents who are in trouble, but the state fund can do it like this, at least by these three paths. I'm glad to see how many people are going to participate in this discussion, how positive people in general seem to be for this bill. Some changes may be made in the conduct of the committee and there may be some views that we have not figured out. Then I expect it to be for the good, not for the increase of enforcing or breaking up the birthworm system. I think the ideologies behind that are good, so we shouldn't have to go into that foundation. A respectable president. I'm gonna make it work. It is a pleasure to see that there seems to be a general well - being in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to ask if we were working at this bill... if it was researched in our neighboring countries... if there's any difference between the sexes, i.e. how sex uses in different ways as long as it takes to play in the maternity canal and whether it has been considered to be more likely to take longer in the womb than men where both sexes have the same length of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I understand that it is that this arrangement has been taken up rather after us, i.e. We've been a number of pioneers in this context, both by extension of the orlion and by this exchange between the sexes. I confess that I do not fully know what it is like in all our neighboring countries. This may be one of the things that will come back again to the work of the Committee, but it is likely at the time when the law was given and I am told that our neighbors have actually trimmed our initiative to try to meet the equality ideals that are fundamental to our delivery systems. In fact, this is just an effort to improve it even more, i.e. Of course, the length of the oven turns to the long - term association of children with their parents during this delicate period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u46	A respectable president. I don't think anyone's doubting this, and it's just that it's very important for a child to get along with both parents. However, I think it's interesting, too, to consider in this context, as I came into it, what is the experience of the states we would like to compare with having as far a birthmark as it is, and whether the sex uses the rights that they have to the same degree. Of course, if not, we need to think about, on the other hand, it is worth taking it out of the process afterwards, how it works, what its effects are for women, if we lent the ore, if they spend a lot more time in maternity and are therefore longer out of a workforce that may affect their competitiveness in a workforce while the man may take advantage of it less correctly. In any case, I think it would be worth looking at this from the bill's processing as a result or just for us in general to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u47	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator on this matter. That may be the purpose of this case, i.e. and to extend the ore and to match the sex state. That was exactly one of the things I said in my talk earlier that women are longer out of work markets, that has been the tendency, and this continues to contribute to the balance we have and to try to break up. It's an attempt to do so by building the birthworm system, which is here proposed to make a change because we've fallen behind. I understand most of the North countries have reached 12 months. Although we have been on the lead at the time of the law, we have been drawn back. No doubt, there are many reasons. But now the situation in society is, so we should be able to do this in my opinion, especially as I said earlier, to support a feeding reserve as much as we do in spite of the situation today that is quite reasonable to make the way for the future. I believe that we need to do so in order to achieve this goal and to hope that the government will support this matter and make sure that the funds are available, not just now, but for a long time. To me, it's the minimum time to have one year in each other, i.e. gives parents a chance to do so before they go to some particular institution, even though they're all amazing. I think we should do everything we can to strengthen the fund now that we have financial resources to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to go so far as to say that this is one of the biggest cases of this council, so far at least. To me, it's a huge, big, big community thing that has many dimensions. Of course, it would have been interesting to hear from other members of the administrations, with the exception of Pawel Bartoszek, who came into the discussion, what we can expect in these matters on the part of the current government beyond that of the government covenant. I would have thought that now there is a tremendous renewal in the council and a great deal of young family members that there was a full rosary and a discussion that would be much longer than day after day on this big issue. So it was. A minister came to the meeting earlier today and would have been glad to join him in the discussion. But that may be all for the better. To me, it's a matter of many fairly tantamount factors, many dimensions, or appeals. We can start by discussing this as the question of family living society, creating a baby - married family society, an environment in Iceland. That'll help. We face the fact that we lose from the country of young educated people or people who go to study and do not come back. Despite the economic stimulus for six years, the situation is still this, and has, in fact, held the disaster side back two years, Iceland is as easy as losing people, and it is the stage for young people who leave the country to a greater extent than it comes back. This should move us to think about: Is it possible for us to create the family - married, environment that we need to do if we are to have the prospect of something exciting for young people? I think things such as this exactly, maternity, and arrangements for support to young children's families are as much part of this as the remuneration is, for which, at least, a longer period of work to change the change and a lower hour's pay has been made up, at least as calculated by the current gang log. Social studies show that when people are wondering where to settle, they are not primarily the wages they watch, they ask about school. Is there a good school and elementary school in this place? Are children's families well prepared for me in the environment that I am about to settle down? Is it safe and peaceful environment, etc.? That's totally normal. When Bang and Olefsen, that fine Danish company, decided to export much of his work to Jótland, it was even. conducted on the basis of a survey of employees for what they put emphasis on in the environment they wanted to live in. It was quite surprising that Copenhagen was not necessarily involved. No, it was a good school, a healthy environment, a good family. Then they said, "We have nothing to do with putting ourselves in the land of Christmas, though the manufacturing business or the operating center will be there." Such is the attitude of prospective rulers, and this is what governments have to think. Of course, this is a lot of equality issues both to the workforce as well as to the individuals and to the genders involved. There has been, though, something discussed already during the discussion. It involves extending the birthworm from nine months to 12 and holding only three months that would not be impregnable, but the danger would be that one parent, most often the mother, would take the rest of the nine months and would be much longer from working than the father. We do not want that. Therefore, it is very important for me to move up the court on both sides in even steps, whether it is 51⁄2,5, or 4◯4, that can be discussed. Of course, this is about the child's rights, and it is a very important aspect of the children's rights that their parents have the right to take care of them and that they are associating with them during this very crucial period of development of the first nine or 12 months, approximately the first year. It is also a matter of justice that turns on both parents. Of course, this issue of human rights also comes from the parents'side, of course, that the community can make sure that a person can enjoy association and be with his child and shoulder the collective responsibility. Not to be overlooked is the fact that this case was an enormous step in discussing equality in Iceland as to highlighting and legally binding the duties of both parents. Having and raising a child is a common responsibility. There, both have equal responsibilities. We're trying to get away from the old wind, that it's mainly the mother that this is about, and the father is more and less free of all things when he is able to have the baby. That's not how we're gonna have it. That's why it was a big step that Iceland took when it was basically one of the first states, if I know correctly, it took in this independent right of fathers. That, in turn, became an example to other lands around us. This Icelandic model was widely spoken of in this regard. I believe that such a significant independence of both parents and fathers came into existence elsewhere in the North countries after us, and it is now part of their basic policy in this system. I've been keeping an eye on it in Norway. There, it is a great deal of importance to preserve this complement system. Every young father in the Norwegian World Congress who gives birth immediately becomes a baby and takes out all his rights because he would not be popular political in Norway if he cheated on it. They take pride in carrying such responsibilities. I hope we're going to see more of our young fathers go to the foal from here on the General. It's time to tell you, Mr. President that this is the one who's probably counting on the ground. I believe I was the first father of the General Assembly to enter the maternity room. It was just about the year 1998/1999. What was my right then? He was half a month. The first step was not better than that one came in sometime during the years before the father's rights or two parents to take a birthworm. I think it was at first just the Father's own right, which he didn't even have to take, or if he was impervious even. That was all, half a month. I'm the half month completely unforgettable. Absolutely. Not because it was so much new but because it was wonderful to have peace with the baby for two weeks and then have the responsibility. How important that is! I think that's why we have to step very carefully to the ground. I would like to comment on the position of single parents and whether the system should be more flexible in bringing the court up to nine months or a whole year to the single parent, most often to the mother, that there I believe a man should take very gently to the ground. I agree with what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek about it, like other things in this case. I believe the law as it is today is trying to approach the most objective cases in which it is justified and should occur, i.e. When one parent dies just after the birth of the baby or during the pregnancy, of course. When a child is adopted by single parents, of course. When an illness prevents one of the parents from fulfilling their responsibilities in this regard and of course taking a maternity vacation. Sadly, if one of the parents is so unfortunate to have to go through a sentence or something like that, of course. These cases are all more and smaller, and I think pretty well defined. So the bill doesn't expect to change it. Of course, it can be considered if there is a reason to consider such issues, but I recommend that one approach to the earth with caution so as not to open up to the bottom line of the problem, being equal to the sex and shared responsibilities of the sex and the position we would like to move to the labour market, that the other sex is not in a inferior position in applying for a job or getting a career because it is more responsible than when children come into the world. All of this needs to be kept in mind in this regard. The amount suggested here is immensely important to me, as well as, of course, to move up the roofs, because that's what we have to do. I don't think that we should be going back to the beginning when there was no roof on it and people got 70% of the heavenly reward in their maternity. In fact, it was before the super wages of the crash, but they soon realized that there might not be a reason, it was a full way, and put roofs in. They were very beds at the beginning, and then something was brought down, and then, as we know it, severe with the harshness of the valley. But, of course, we should slide back. I don't think the roof is at least an abnormal reference not less than 70% of the average population in the country or something like that, even higher than that. Then there should be no one to feel sorry for, and especially no high - paying workers, even if they temporarily cut back on wages or payment by taking their birthports and carrying on their duties in this regard. Let us not forget that those who have been in the reference season during an enormous amount of pay are likely to improve their lifestyle better than those who had a very low salary. Therefore, it might be reasoned that it would be even greater to pay 100% of the reference wage to a certain limit and then go down to 70%, and it would be a roof. If so, we would really be helping the most efficient groups to live in the wrong way while raising children. It is not even certain that this original implementation will be the best if it is carried out. I wasn't there, and I don't suppose anyone who's up for the bill moving to do better there. All I want to say is support to family in general. He's small in Iceland. He's too small in Iceland, that's for sure. Of course, we have a lot of thought - provoking questions about the child's welfare that have now been impaired and are extremely low. In some respects, it would be natural for a certain general support of a family to be independent of income, and then additional support would come to those in the weakest position because it is according to what we are attending here, that it is taken into consideration the circumstances of a child's family, and I don't talk about when many children are growing up in the same family and relying on the income of one or two parents. Sadly, it was inevitable to interfere with some child damage during the years of failure, although it was tried as possible in that case, like all others, to distribute the burdens in a socially just way. Iceland has received good grades for sailing through its difficulties and has taken a sharp stand as to protecting the welfare system at the same time. As evidence of this, e.g. The assessment by an independent representative of the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, who gave the United Nations high credit for having done well in ensuring social rights and human rights despite economic difficulties, in contrast with other countries, which, unfortunately, suffered severe losses. However, we came to the conclusion that we had to do better with our children's families. That's what we acknowledged. Perhaps we were not aware that like others, they had great problems. The results of the report, the quality - care programme information and sociologists'assessment were largely improved in the early season, followed by the government. Today, they are kind of similar in their vision, since income limits, the poor tea zones, have not been developed. I think we need to take this very seriously, and that's related to what I mentioned at the outset, because how we get into a child-friendly, family-friendly environment. Finally, the financing. Thanks to a lot of work involved in Iceland and a good economy, the insurance company has grown up so handsomely, well into another thousand dollars, and a relatively low percentage of the tax base, the anti-refunding, the counter-imbursement rate of the total wage bill in the country, the pay fee in the country, will be sufficient to finance it. That must be how we can afford it, though there was 1% of the pay grade in the country, to finance a handsome birthworm system. The bill here assumes that less than 0.9% will be available to finance this extension. Then they shouldn't be overworked, I'm afraid, because I wanted to need a higher percentage, i.e. that children should be more numerous. We also need to remember that the factors that some have developed are dating, which we should take very seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A transferer for putting in this fine bill. I support the bill, and I also support that the situation will be better. A well - being committee will consider the various views that have been presented during the discussion, including the variety of family forms. The nuclear family we know may have made some changes and have become considerably more diverse than it was. Therefore, it should always be noted that people are diverse, varied, and may need different support depending on family composition. I hope this bill will start with more extensive work on improving the legislation and support of local children, especially those who do not meet the requirements for childbirth, although a great deal of value is being helped by a family, especially at the beginning of the family's origination. In this regard, this is an important issue in which the standard of living for special young people has been given much attention and is sometimes inferior to those in the countries around us. I know that many people around me and in my group of friends are starting a family these days and thinking about moving abroad. There they can offer a better family support and a better family than they can offer. As a result, I believe this is an important development in the right direction. But I think we have to take this from a few or many sides. This bill, like many other factors, is an indication of movement toward or better support for young families. We see here at the Council that at last we see a switchboard that has not even existed in this house, such a positive development that is taking place in order to be more protective and more supportive to the children's families here at councils as well as to others in society. I want to talk about my approach to this and how you can approach the right to birthworm from many aspects of human rights. At the Icelandic or Icelandic State, there is a party of many human rights deal that will be taken into account, the right of parents to associate with their children after they are born, the right of mothers especially to have birthworm, since these have all become rather old covenants that I may be referring to here. It's even mine. to the European Community Convention and the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights. It specifically involves women's right to maternity and women's right to protect the labour market when they have children. Even so, 8th pars are to be mentioned. The European Convention of Human Rights, which includes privacy but also the right to family life, and finally the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which includes a child's broad right to support and presence with his parents, as well as the wide commitments of those within the contract to support parents. Most of the rights I'm listing here, or most of these contracts, are examples of so - called social rights. Social rights are causing the world's state to make a commitment in order to always try to do better in protecting social rights. So these rights are not of this absalutive pull, such as. Civil rights are spoken of as not to do something. Instead, the State will try to do something and always better according to its best financial abilities. So I'd like to reiterate it to Congress and the government that when it comes to Iceland's commitment to the social rights of its citizens, we must always do better today than we did yesterday, especially when we have room and space to do so. In view of the repeated times now that we have a fine position, economics, we should not be able to better satisfy the social rights that the Icelandic state has signed and has said we intend to ensure and protect. I just want to help because I think it's important that we try to keep the city's human rights in mind with all the laws we put here, especially when it comes to social rights. It is not enough just to say that there is a birthmark. We must always try to improve and secure the right of parents to be around their children, the right of children to be with their parents, and the rights of all of us to have family life. That's why I want it to be directed to the highest. well - being committees are particularly considering how to improve the availability of maternity vacations, such as extending them, will further protect parents' social rights and try to be a little guided by what international commitments Iceland has made when it comes to the social rights of parents and children in that even deepens and improves this bill. The ones listed here find it very important that we use the tools that Iceland's international commitments are to contribute to the development of rights, to help protect and protect them better than we do. And it is not enough to sign a document, but we must always bear in mind that social rights are the means that we always want to improve them. It's called in English if I'm allowed to sludge, a respectable president, a trendedic. It's something that's over there like Iceland can fully afford to stand up and support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u50	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalise a change in the law on birth and parentoroft, with subsequent changes, and insurance bills, with subsequent adjustments. As mentioned in the talks and discussions earlier, this is one of the priorities of a council of the left green and in the answers, I thanked you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, Vargist, who made the case, was involved in transporting it. As at the same time, in the past, I'm on the side of the matter. This is a very good thing. I've been very interested in these matters, I've been in trouble. A well - arranged committee for some time, as well as for a case, I would file a case on this subject but then take up this huge matter from the council of green and want to put it into practice. The report on the bill suggests that there is a change in the law on birth and parentorof rights to increase from the current nine months to 12 months in two steps between 2018 and 2019. If the bill is legal, the total duration of birth and parentorolfs will be 11 months in 2018 and 12 months in 2019. It is assumed that the right to birth vacations is divided between parents that each of them has the right to five months but has two months in common and is able to share them in the way possible. We all agree on the importance of both parents fully using their rights to spend time with their children and that parents use their rights together. As discussed in the discussion, it is, of course, about the child's right to share with his parents. As I noted earlier, I have been discussing this matter considerably with professionals in the article, i.e. midwives and those who have been doing home service, mostly midwives. Of course, they associate with quite a lot of people on maternity vacations. Some of these professionals, these are some people, have been describing their concern for single parents, parents who do not have mates at their side or for the existence of one parent, that is not there. There may be a number of reasons, and there are just as many of them. This has expressed concern for the situation in which I was interviewed, that there are mothers who have not even changed and completed the birthworm that the law has already given them the right to accept because financial situation has been difficult, and the parent has only had to go to the labour market before the birth clinic ended. On the other hand, I agree with what has been said in talks in the hospital. Congress members will be very careful to step to the earth in putting large reserves in these legislation. I wondered, and this is one of the things we need to take a very close look at at the job anyway. The welfare committee, whether there are other tools and tools we have to achieve the goal of supporting these groups better than those given by this legislation, or whether there are any exceptions. This is one of the points I've had. A senator at night. The welfare committee will call for information on how our social welfare systems can support these groups. Because we're like I said before, thinking about the child's interests. This is the child's best interests, and some children are not equal to children with both parents at their side. This is one of the factors that must be considered and taken to earth with caution to discuss equality. As indicated in the case of what. It considers the bill as a basis for a full reexamination of the legislation on the ground. The welfare committee and even more factors are listed in the legislation or in the bill. I believe this will be done very well on the Committee, to examine these factors. In a government contract, the current government has issued that pay should be raised. At the same time, it was presented in a talk this morning by reason of reason. A senator said that he had appeared in the news this morning, that I believe, to the highest. Social Affairs minister spoke of it in some newspaper article that it was also the government's intention to bridge in some way between maternity school and prenatal school. This bill, however, focuses just on extending the vagina so that there will be less gaps. I'd like to discuss just one point, as it says in a report that during the last term, steps have been taken back, in which, at the beginning of that election period, the length established by the government of the preceding administrations was canceled. However, it is noted that in the time of the last government, where the forward group was in charge, i.e. By the end of that election period, the maximum pay for the maternity of maternity was raised from 370 you. K. Up to 500 of you. K. It was important to work on this, because in a report of a workgroup review of these legislation and the figures we have heard. People have seen and seen in the media in recent years, it is shown that after the roof of the maximum pay on maternity vacations was dropped, fewer fathers took advantage of maternity vacations. Of course, these were operations. I'm not teaching anyone or anyone about anything, it was just the necessary action that needed to take in at the time, but with extra space, it is necessary to increase the pay because we want the child to be reunited with both parents if they are there. I would like to briefly review only what was stated in a report made available by a group on the revision of the birth certificate in their work. Ex-knife. The senator, Jón Jónsson, led them, and a number of local stakeholders took place there and expressed their views. V.E.G. the present social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, the present issue. A senator of the Convention, appointed the committee, and suggested a reexamination. It suggested that the maximum pay from the birth ordinary reserve be 600 fars. K. and to make up to 300 of you. K. During a month, there would be no impairment at this time. As noted earlier, these steps were determined with the 500 yous. K. who now went into effect before the New Year's Eve. A report on the results of this group showed that there would be an increase in payment so that people could see the potential for using this right to a greater extent than has been done in recent years, since it was evidently found that fathers took less advantage of their birthworm. By taking that $300 thousand and not having it cut out, it would especially be to look at those who had a low share of money to meet that group as well. As I'm saying, as mentioned earlier, this is a bill for why. a welfare committee to win this case, the bill would be submitted to cover these important factors. The birth orcs law is a big deal. We also know that it is important to extend the birthworm to bridge the gap between birthworm and play - school or a day's mother. Then, too, in many communities in many parts of the country, it is known that children cannot even be brought to bed, since there has been a shortage. Yet, many of our mothers do a very good and important job. We know that it can be stressful for children's families in the country when constant puzzles need to be dealt with how to handle the situation, who should think of the child that day and the other day. This often affects family life. Now we see evidence that some children are not well enough. Society's speed is high, and there is considerable stress. It is our responsibility as members of the Parliament and the politicians to see how we can meet our children's families in the country to make things more comfortable and to create a family - life society that we have today. I look forward to helping.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Elisa Lára Arnardóttir, a senator for her speech and the attitude of the candidates who were involved in this discussion. I'm just saying better now, because the advance party is of course a great heritage in this field, and I suppose it's one of the most remarkable things that the former minister of the Party, Páll Pétursson, leaves his share in the legislation in this field. It's all right to keep it in its proper place and mention the fine name of a man who spent a long time with us at the council. Of course, it is proper and mandatory that the welfare committee will review a number of matters related to this bill and including the question of exception from the principle that both parents have their own right to the holiday and that they are not overreachable except in exceptional circumstances and that they will be excluded, whether they have to change in some way, or whether they might want to set up some career for the parole board or parole procedure for applications, about peripheral situations that do not fit into the rules of the law. I'm not trying to rule it out, but I'm going to say again as fast as possible. A senator himself mentioned that it needs to be handled with care. Of course, the bill is primarily a legal adjustment in order to extend or prolong the birthmark to the rest of the law. I don't think it needs a wide-scale core review of these laws. The law is in the ground, very good. It's supposed to be standing. Of course, it is always right and duty to review whether things can be better if the situation in society has changed to some extent so that it requires revision. This includes what has already been called. I agree, too, and mentioned in my speech that I think it is my goal to pay full pay for your maternity leave to some minimum limit. If we think of the lowest agreed pay, which may be worth 300 you. K. In 2018, then, is there reason to reduce this as a payment for a maternity vacation? I don't think so. Somewhere above should be one of the permafrosts paid in maternity.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u52	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his counterwarts and beautiful words to our candidates and especially our former seniors. Minister of Páll the son of Pétursson. I agree with what. A senator said that there was a very large and important step in parental rights and equality. I agree with what. A senator says that we must slowly step to the ground in these provisions. I support it, of course, that parents have a right to themselves, and we will consult an exception committee or some form at the time. A welfare committee, whether it might be a solution to these peripheral events. I've probably come out in my speech earlier, but I think it's a very good bill and it's necessary to extend the birth Orc, and these legislation are good. What I meant by my words was that at work. We will examine other aspects of this legislation, which is, whether it is an exception and whether it belongs to some other law, that we extend the right of parents there. I couldn't agree more. A senator would want to avoid cutting down payments on maternity vacations in the country, and he is eager to look at them at work. The welfare committee, if there's anything we can do to raise it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u53	Mr. President. I think it'll be fun when we start dealing with it. The welfare committee, who are so lucky to sit there. Perhaps this is being born in the discussion, as often happens when helpful and good discussions take place on a subject, certain ideas that are well worth considering, as the last one has been discussed, perhaps putting both floors and roofs in the system, not just a roof that cuts off the highest salary, but the floors that ensure minimum payment. I think it's worth it. The benefit of the case as we now have, a panel of left greens, and have worked on it, is that it's a full bill. It's a ready bill. These are the legal measures needed to take care of the prolongation of birthworm. That puts a lot of work to do. This is not just a declaration of will or a resolution on the part of the council. Here is a packed bill, as necessary in order to take necessary steps to prolong ordorfs. I think, however, that as a welfare committee allows time to work, it is very good to review the big context of the case, to take this into the family environment of a family and a family-friendly community, and, as we left greens stress and have done with various legal instruments from the moment of the year's movement, to view this as part of the bridge between birth Schools and nurserys and secure daycare for parents and, of course, at the appropriate time to follow it free school. In my opinion, this work is not completed until there is no hole between birthworm and nursery school or any other trusted planning and freedom of charge. It is an enormously improved income, a huge contribution to the families of the country, and a handsome support for them. Of course, government and rural society are expected to come together to set up a time - appointed schedule to close this hole and establish free play schools. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u54	V.E.G. President. Thanks again. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for answer. It has been a pleasure to observe the discussion on this important subject at the Assembly Hall today, and there have been a number of viewpoints and speculations that need to be discussed in a material way. The welfare committee, when the case has been referred to, following this discussion. It's going to even be there. Very nice, very productive to deal with, and to examine the potential on the floor and on the roof for payment on maternity and parent vacations. I agree with what. Senator, this is a bill ready. Actually, it would not be long to get through. The welfare committee. But I think it's very important, because we have this device in our hands, that we look at the combined effects of a variety of other factors, such as the rise in payment, floor, roof, and the appearance of single parents. Do we want to get it inside our maternity law, or do we want it to be another kind of law that will deal with it? This is one of the issues that are prepared to create a quality family policy here, that we can bridge this gap that is difficult for many children's families. Finally, I'll say, "I'm looking forward to cooperation with what's happened. " paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon and another whatnot. Councilmen on welfare committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir and the Left Green for bringing up this matter. This is a subject that has long been very important to me and, in fact, to all of us in the bright future. We've spoken of maximumurances rising in safe paces during the election season, and much is said of the importance of also extending the birthworm. We simply believe that it is the rights of children and parents. And that is why it is both social and equality. Here, from personal experience, I have many friends in the United States who do not go back to work after having children. That's not an option. There's no maternity code. It is governed only by a general labour market. One of my friends is a lawyer, and she could not bridge the cost line with her lawyers so that her children could go to a good school. When I was pregnant with my first child, I lived in Britain. Since I had not been working with the company I was with long enough, only in nine weeks was I entitled to the British State. The British government offers minimal orlof, and the company will take over. I wondered, " What is the responsibility of the workforce in this regard? ' I raise that question. I also want to thank you for the opportunity to work with this case in the highest part of the world. A well - arranged committee and believes that by listening to a discussion in the Hall today, we will achieve good discussions and expected solidarity. I personally look forward to taking on the responsibilities entrusted to me as president of the Supreme Court. A welfare committee, working with these issues. Because it's a community matter, I'd like to share views from the part of the community that will accept the responsibility that comes with our decisions to change these laws. This responsibility has to do with how we see the bridge between the closing of orcs and the beginning of a nursery school that is fired or financed by our rural communities. As I mentioned in the platform yesterday, our nursery has a serious problem with high school students. We need to pay particular attention to what will happen at the end of 12 months. Are we doing this even more difficult for parents to bridge the gap between 12 months and 18 months, or up to 24 months? Do you have enough resources there? As director of the school, I have worked on the other side of the table, knowing the despair and challenges that families face when it comes to bridgeing this gap. Reykjavíkurburg, with whom I have been working a long time, has also been working on this subject, and I believe that what we do here will have a tremendous impact on the development of high school. I would like to discuss only a report made by a staff to bridge the gap between birthworm and preschool and return to the City Council of Reykjavík, on May 28, 2015. Her goal was to examine especially the prolongation of birthworm, the daily parents'system, and the child - playing school as an alternative. The work group was also entrusted with the responsibility to set up different staged images and steps according to the time of starting a nursery; 12 months and 18 months. What I would like to discuss in particular this report, although it is possible to discuss much, would be an increase of $5.8 billion if I remember correctly. During the past two years, the media has discussed the tremendous loss and hardship of Reykjavík's city by immediately running a preschool. These 5.8 billion may contain anxiety. And it's only if all 12 months of age got saved in high school. The growing number of children in preschool will also require a high number of employees, or about 515 status points, according to the report. I remind you that the report was written in 2015. The numbers are now much higher, since preschool teachers and school staff got a dresser. I point out that we have a great shortage of professional playschool teachers. Who accepts these 515 levels? It is very important that we keep this in mind and that there will be discussions on this community matter with the Teacher Union, the educational system and the welfare system, that we are together thinking about what we do. Clearly, much needs to be kept in mind, and it is vital that we look to educational and welfare systems in our work. I mention again that the decision we face is a community matter and that it affects many aspects of our society. It is true that the subject is both urgent and important. These are the interests of children, parents, and society as the whole that we need to be careful with. It is important that we take a careful look at all the viewpoints mentioned here. Thanks again for the discussion, and I look forward to the work that lies ahead of us. As much as I think it is important, or even most important, to have a strong consultation with the community in our work. I can't wait to get started, like many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u56	President. I want to thank you for a very good discussion on this subject. The last thing I want to say is thank you. paritaprevir Nichole Leigh Mosty, president of the day. The welfare committee for her support of the case and the positive words that are extremely important to this sort of case, but she expects to cooperate with the Committee on the bill. Her insight into this series of subjects is also of utmost importance, especially in the subjects of high school. I agree with what's going on in her case. Of course, there are many factors and much more to consider than those who are actually financial. Not least is the language which may actually be even bigger, which is a teacher's education in Iceland in general, that I now don't talk about teacher's discretion at all school levels. It's a big case, as well as a nursery address, if we're talking about them, space for each child, etc. It's all publicity. I want to point 'em. A member of the welfare committee and representatives on the report that I mentioned earlier in the discussion that specifically discusses these factors. In fact, the bill under here is one aspect of the whole matter, one part of the solution. I think it's a good idea for a health committee to see it this way, i.e. Working with the bill, which is a natural change in the law, but it always looked at this whole context and could possibly be a guide to what steps you can take, a practical step, to actually bridge the gap. Hv. A senator spoke on the report provided by Reykjavíkurburg, the European Union has discussed this, the Council has discussed this, the Ministry has discussed this, etc. But we'll never make it out of the report phase. We're always there, and we can't get in to define these points, these actions, and initiate the bridge of the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. As we have seen in this very good and broad discussion of this group, there are a number of viewpoints. They sometimes agree, and at times they pull in different directions. This is something that the committee needs to discuss, and I trust her very well in view of the extent of 1st. is here far - reaching to discuss these factors. A general view of the sex status, the position of the sexes in family life, of the labour market, of the rights of children who need to be central to this discussion, of human rights and of the European Convention, which was presented in question. paritaprevir The death of Ævarsdóttir Övardósdóttir is very important. That's even. so Iceland has undertook a contract that the status and rights of families are improving from year to year and we are working forward, that family status is better in five years than today, and better than it was five years ago. And it can be said, in fact, that we are still in debt after the economic collapse, since we have not reached the point where Icelandic family members are in the direction they were before the time when we were still developing in these waters in the North countries, but we have now fallen behind. We still owe children's families in Iceland because of the financial breakdown. We need to look at it, too, with guidance. I just want this to be brief at the end, and once again, I want to express joy in the Senate and agree with the members of the council who have spoken here and declared that they will support the objective of the matter and will endeavor to achieve a solidarity on the matter of the Senate as such, make it clear to the welfare committees in the matter of working on two floors, as it may be said, on the other hand, on the matter of Congress and on the law, and, of course, of course, to settle it in agreement with the committees and pis and propers for children, but not to be considered as one step of many of the intention of covering the gap between birth norms and children's play for the Icelandic family.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u57	Mr. President. I sat on the President's chair earlier, itching my fingers to take part in a discussion about the matter and wasn't quite sure if it would run out before lunch break. Fortunately, she did not, so I can participate. I found that the viewpoints at 1 Corinthians 15: 33 were very interesting to me. Um, which is usually not very nice, but it was very good now. Then I refer to the children's rights to socialize with their parents, parents' rights to socialize with children. Then it is equal to the enemy that the right of parents to enjoy association with their children is equal. Then there is the job - market client, the parents'right to have as much opportunity for work as for other people in life when they have children. Then there are ways of doing this. There's different goals there, like why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the first of all, spoke of the matter. These goals may conflict with some extent. But it is amazingly often that when you can look at the options in the beginning, you can work toward integrating them, reaching all the goals. If there's some weight on one goal, I think most senators would agree that it must be the child's right to be with parents. Then comes the other rights. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she agrees. When it comes to the approach to goals, the amount of money is widely spoken; the floor so that at least people have minimal progress, and the ceilings are spoken of as a percentage in that area. And the way to the goal is also the length of time and how to divide it. Hv. A senator and I discussed possible ways of doing this in the dining room earlier. And maybe just to get it into the discussion about the switch, that the exchange could somehow be so that to ensure more of the child's rights to their parents and equal friends, you take your part and then you put your payment on the rest of your life so that both parents will be able to do their roles, rights, and duties in equal terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u58	A respectable president. I also rejoice that this discussion reached the end of the afternoon, so to speak. A senator could join her. Also, I would like to say in general that I find great joy when it comes to such a matter that we are going to make it this powerful 1. Sadly, it has developed in this way over the years since 1st. is sick and the discussion actually begins in a Senate committee and will not be strong until it is 2nd. and payment from the Committee. Then there may have been various divisions, or they may have happened. So I'd especially like to celebrate the wide and open discussion here, all across groups and governments and oppositions and so forth. I think it means a lot to me, and it's an important lunch for a dog. to have all the points mentioned in the discussion. I'd like to agree with the viewpoints presented at the moment. The senator that the child's rights should be in the foreground. I think it's really the most important thing, especially because children have less proverbs than adults. It is then that we are elected agents who create or create legal requests for the rights and duties of the citizens, especially those who do not have the most powerful voices in the community, including the children. In this regard, it is a speculation. I trust a senator to pay and build all of this. A senator makes it appear as if he is a matter of opinion to them through a senator named Pirata of the Senate because I think it's all worth it. It is one of the technical speculations that would be appropriate to consider in the treatment and processing of the situation. But it is also desirable that the system is as clear and as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u59	Mr. President. Absolutely. As for the situation and the possibility to accept the case: It's a bill, which is usually a bit heavy. Piranians also have a bill on the Secret and True Minister's Information and Truth. We know that it is usually a little heavy. But that doesn't mean you can't be a good job here. If a person achieves a good job and a solidarity, he or she is often adopted, especially one Senate bill, by the unconventional political debate that exists. This is really a matter of two objectives. It is about the rights of a child and parents on the other hand, about equality. I think there must be a very strong sound foundation for the government and all to put the rights of a child in first place. In this regard, all of us must agree completely with each other. Then it's the equal friendship. When it comes to equality in a labour market, the government has placed special emphasis on that seminary, securing it. If you look at the primary objective of the bill, the political landscape, and the political emphasis on the government, it seems to me that this is a case that should go far and even be accepted if men cooperate with it and try to be perfunctory.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u60	President. I agree with these optimistic words. A senator says it's more than likely that the bill will become a law. It should also be considered to their opinion that this is at least a possible greater part of the Council behind the present government. There are clear promises of cooperation with the government on large issues, of a willingness to emphasize equality. There we have, though, some key reasons that should be involved in this particular matter, that I do not speak of the good subjugation of a few executives during this discussion, so I agree. In general, a cheeky whale. The senator's concern that the bills are heavier than the Senate resolutions to be agreed at the end: Yes, that may be because of the way we have seen but not the way Congress feels angered in the plots. They may not have been taken very seriously as bills become laws, thus obtaining positions in the lawbook and then being serious. I believe, however, that it is very important for all members of the council, especially those in the government position, to cope with their compromises in the form of a bill. Thus, you have actually shown how the political goals of the Law book fit, so to speak; how they play together, in contrast with the way of assigning a minister to a job that no one ever knows the beginning and end. I think there's a way of getting this kind of strength that we can see exactly that it's possible. That's how you do it. And that it can help the case. But finally, a respectable president, I would like to thank you very much for having a good discussion on this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u61	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill is about invitations on supplementary codfish. Transporters with me have a problem. paritaprevir S. Brjánsson and Guðjón. 1st par. Sounds like this: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: If the total power of cod is increased for the fishing year 2017/018, the crest. 1.mg. 3. gr., shall the minister ask the extra chef out to the highest bidder. Further regulations on the implementation of the decree must be agreed by the minister in accordance with local regulations. The bill of the same material was submitted to the last assembly. My co-mates were then members of the Group of Groups, the Pirata, and the Carets of the Future. Now it's come forward again, slightly altered. The legal adjustment proposed here is based on the preferential implementation of hunting warrants that the market's law should be in charge of the use of the fish industry's resources. In the implementation of the mission, rules that take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect the specification of my development should be set. The use of tenders and markets is most direct when a certain species of fish is introduced or added as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. The cost of fishing is unlikely to be reached until it is established on market grounds. One of the advantages of an offer is that rent fees paid for reimbursement will automatically swing by commercial fishing and reduce the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. Thus, the amount of rent is not based on ecstatic decisions and the owners of the resource, the people of the country, can be confident that one person is not being lenient above another. The budget itself determines the cost of access to the resource by means of market oers, and it also prevents braking with quathane. Also, because political whims do not control the demand for future changes from one term to the next, the offer is sustained for long - term environment. There will be more distances within the system with available markets and innovations that will provide the most advanced opportunities for the drivers whether they are old or new. In the implementation of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. Experience from an offer of distribution of resources around the world is widespread, and it is easy to look to neighboring nations, such as the Faeroes and the Norwegians, for good examples. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of economic management within the fishing field fall into the pockets of few people living in the sea. Fish markets in Iceland are good models for marketing solutions. It purchases fish without eating on a daily basis at a market. This enterprise has no other business insurance but that tomorrow's bid market will be active. There is no debate about fish prices in the fish market, for the buyer and the seller have agreed on prices. All of the land's fish industry has equal access to fish markets. Thus, innovation in fish farming is much easier than in the fishing industry. There are other good examples. Climate clearances are available, and Icelandic airlines, aluminiums, and other factories are bids for European markets while income is running into government funds. Telecommunications are used to select between telephone companies when the reporting areas for telecommunications need to be implemented and when the government assigns private transport tasks, special requirements are made. When people buy a roof over their heads, an offer is made at a market controlled by real estate dealers. Thus, there is good and broad experience with the opportunities in various forms, and it is very relevant when contributing to limited quality, such as natural resources. Now, those assigned to the food can put a full fishing fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad to the third party. For example, even small foods have had to pay more than 200 cents. for a kilo of cod, while the government collects only 13 cents. ... ata hunting fee according to the news from Fish Room. It's a striking difference. The results of the Marine Research Institute from the founding of bottom fish in Iceland in 2016 were presented on April 20, 2012. The results of analysis are an important part of the annual assessment by the National Institute of Marine Research. The measurements in March indicated improvements in the quality of key bottom species and prospects for increased recruitment in fish stocks and exaggeration during the coming fishing years. Finally, the results and suggestions of the Marine Research Agency on the catch target for the next fishing year were presented in the beginning of June. The whole fishing system must be transformed, but it is possible to take immediate steps in the right direction. During the last year of fishing, the codfish was increased by 21 YOU. ton and on the current fishing year, about 5 of you. a ton of which the increase is 114. By 2007/2008 a ton of fish, which is now 244 thoust. tons. During this period, since the fishing year 2007/2008, the codfish has nearly doubled. The addition has come to those who are already on a surface. The World Health Organization's assessment suggests that in the coming fishing years, the dinner will still be increased. If a Marine Research Institute proposes an additional cod for the fishing year 2017/018, the adjustment in the law will allow the increase to the highest bidders. The rules for tenders, which take into account localities, prevent compression and respect the specification of my outputs, will then be stated by Regulation. Thus, there is experience in carrying out such projects with the market price of markets. A respectable president. During election discussions, there was a lot of talk about hunting fees, reducing them, finding justice and sense of justice among the owners of the resource and about the way to export it. Two of the government groups talked a lot about this, and it was their campaign promise to create this system change. True, it is not a matter of the government's policy declaration, but although I and my group want a complete system change, this is a step that we take that is just an additional coven. We suggest this because it's a practical step and there's experience. Then, on the basis of that experience, we could decide what things should be and what steps to take in the future. That's a very reasonable suggestion. I hope she has a quick start. A professional committee and then a council office. But as I told you before, there are two of the government classes that have it on their policy list to provide resources. True, not many of them are members of the council hall from these categories. I see there's a why. Senator from Upstate. I hope he says something. I hope those classies who have had this in their policy, this matter of justice, leave their little fair step in order to be accepted here in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your transfer, huh? paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, for the bill and her story talk. Of course, it is only natural to rejoice that people are interested in the management of fishing, especially in researching market routes during the distribution of food. I, by permission of the President, would like to quote the government's declaration of policy, which includes...Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The benefits of an untimely distribution will be based on long-term contracts and work together as assessed by instruments, such as marketing connections, reimbursement or other means, in order to ensure more benefit from access to a common resource will be in normal proportion to the yield of the fish. Long-term safety needs to be maintained in this article. Note in particular: The long - term safety of the article and the stability of the structure needs to be carefully monitored. This bill and the ideas presented there make me feel very good to include in the discussion of a complete review of the provision of current sources of resources. I'd like to reiterate that I celebrate all the ideas and suggestions that are aimed at this goal. We need to try to achieve as far an agreement as possible here at the General for the long-term success of this case. Therefore, I sincerely hope that we can have a good cooperation at the council with a marketing survey, with the entire government. I know, as mentioned here, that there is at least a marked convergence between the policy of restoration and the cohesion of that subject. This is good for the overall rejection that is currently being carried out. I trusted in good cooperation with the United States and the government's opposition for the work being done by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I had just read this paragraph in the government's policy declaration and was trying to figure out what it really meant. I didn't quite understand. We've had all kinds of committees, the last major reconciliation committee to discuss these matters. I want to ask you why. In contrast with whether this bill and the way it is suggested, the next year of fishing will be offered without additional resources, which is not a good tool for working on costs, as mentioned in the declaration. Should we not do the same as the Faeroes did, experiment and try and try, get experts in tenders to design the invitation for political emphasis, and then test what happens? As I mentioned earlier in my talk, the increase from 2007/2008 114 B.C.E. a ton of cod. There is no need to place them always over the percentages that are already in the way. This prevents recent recruitment, and there is no justice in it. But in the discussion and in the search for stability for the article - now there is no stability in this article, we divide from year to year - in an effort to obtain a fair price as a function for the owners of the resource, and also to create stability in this article, is this not a good tool that we in the United States's Congress, now the proper government class in their efforts to explore things? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This may well be one way to determine how to solve an organization for the future. I'm not gonna rule it out at all. I think, however, given that we're about to start this work, which I secondly agree that I hope we can have a good partnership with the entire council, it may well be part of that review, I don't think it's wise to accept it at this stage but to have it, if and then, by the way, that they're heading in some particular direction, as part of the design of our plans to achieve and that it will be the best and the rich way of reconciliation. I repeat, this is a good idea and a good part of the discussion, but I'm not sure it's the right thing to agree to it on its own.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u65	Mr. President. I'm very disappointed in this. I would have thought that there were divisions, both of them, in the same way. A senator's part, and a bright future, would have jumped on such a suggestion that really doesn't rock any boats, in full sense, is taken out and invited out by just an additional pair of fish, and we practice offering out resources. It's one of our most valuables as well as the most efficient resources. It has lasted a long time. It's an eternity of debate. Today, the population of the rural communities, especially in the coastal areas, has a high cost of economic management in the article. If people mean anything by actually wanting to do something about it, we in the United States are here to raise our hands on the government. So, of course, this bill should be approved at this very stage, so that by the next year, you will be able to start practicing at the invitation. This is also about the nation's ownership of the resource, the beginning of the system conversion, the actual taking steps, and the fact that the categories that have had it on their policy, and received lots of votes on it, show that they are serious and want to take real steps towards system change.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u66	A respectable president. I've got to start now by describing my surprise at the counterweight. paritaprevir Jón, son of Steindór, the Valdimarsson of Waldo. I didn't leave him any different than it was here to form a position with a government class and a government side. That's what I thought he was talking about last year. But it turned out that the experience was very different when he came to his later answer. But for so long, you'll learn who lives. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir and the first carrier of this proposal, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir daughter, only further into the subject of the proposal. The provision of the temporary arrangement to be added to Article 1. suggests that supplementary dosing should be offered to the highest bidder and then the Minister of Regulation shall set up additional rules on the implementation of the tender oer. In the report, it is only considered that in the implementation of the form of an offer should set rules that take account of localities, prevent compression, and respect the particular status of my outputs. I have to admit, I think it's a little open. First, if you're going to consider the factors in the report, don't you think you're always asking out to the highest bidder, or what? Sometimes you have to accept a lower offer because some project has come up to the roof that she can buy, right? Well, based on what you're saying, you're gonna have to take it into account, aren't you? I feel that there is a conflict between the proposal itself and the report itself, and I also feel that this is, as I said before, a little open. Do transporters have no suggestions on how these rules are to be used? Or do they simply trust that a minister will put them and thereby fulfill all the views that are likely to exist in these materials?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u67	Mr. President. The conclusion was to put it this way in this bill and give a minister an opportunity to set the Regulation, set the criteria. Of course, we're talking about the highest bidder taking into account these rules. Now it is limited to compression. I think it's 12% the most in one hand. That would be no change. It's only fair, it's to keep resources from collecting on a few hands. Today, we have taken into account smaller fishing projects. We'll nose it. There is good reason to build rules that will take them into account. And then groundwork. It could be that we are saying goodbye to certain areas. However, it is the highest bidder for the land assigned. I'm not an expert on exports, and I couldn't build those rules myself, but there are experts who specialize in resource exports specifically. Residents had one of these to assist them in their experimental assignments and have experts working with them on the change that will take effect in 2018. Of course, I and we who bring this bill assume that when the rules are prepared, there is a new expertise. So, with the rules of tenders, you can get all your political emphasis. Of course, it would be crazy to throw everything out and just say, " Whoever offers the best." This would not meet the political emphasis of the United States rather than that of other classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u68	A respectable president. That may be the problem in my mind, causing my lack of faith, this with political emphasis like that. A senator came in, because my political emphasis and political emphasis are at the highest. A marine minister may not be the same. So I don't share this super-faith problem. Harðardóttir It is important to consider all their views, especially when they are so open as to feel I think they're part of the report. Hv. paritaprevir Harðardóttir G. Hardydotsdóttir did a good job of handling various routes here in a pitt in response to my counter-sponsored response just before. But none of those answers are included in the report. Taking into consideration the principle is quite open. What does that mean? Compacting, 12% are not in here and respecting the unique status of my preparations. It's all pretty open. Experts are worth the price, but they are not the ones who set political policies. They can build the processes and tools that we use so that everything will be done best in bringing about the political course. But in this regard, the political policy on what is here is a little less than a factor: Shall we foreboding or auction be taken seriously into account based policies as presented here? Is this being offered in special areas? You should use any of these only in certain areas, and no other people, etc.? I miss the fact that these matters are not better handled in the report. I feel that considerable power is being placed in the hands of a minister who has a simple Regulation, without asking or discussing it with the Council in any way, can bring the rules around this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u69	Mr. President. This preliminary principle, suggested to be agreed with one fishing year. The idea is to experiment. I'm not an expert, as I said before, but we decided, in order to be reasonable in the situation, in order to increase the likelihood that more people would agree that we would do this experiment, to keep this open. Of course, the report is a legal solution, and it suggests what to consider when making the invitation. I'm absolutely certain that no one in this room wants to throw out a thousand tons and say, "He who offers everything gets the best, everybody would like to set some kind of rules, but the idea is to try to take steps and try a way to get out on markets that would suit the Icelandic situation. We could try. Because the rules are open, it might be possible to set out so many tons on Western soil as well as on so many tons for the Southnes and to make sure that they're built. And compression scores are naturally completely visible. This bill is thought of as an experiment and a step to break out of the system we are in right now. Now it's like politicians almost put their finger in the air and say, "Have that 13 guy, what do you say about that, boys? When the biscuits between the two parties are up to 200 bucks. It's not fair. It is a search for righteous systems and, of course, to make sure that the people of the land whose resources are available receive a larger and more reasonable share. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u70	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in fish control law. This is with regard to overexpensive sources beyond the development of cod, as a minister of the seas will publish in the fall. This discussion will help us to understand that this is a form of training out on fish markets. I'd like to warn you that we're going to do some fishing thing together. We're here to take the advice of the Faeroys and the Norwegians. I think they've been pretty serious about buying out fishing warrants and are now hauling it ashore. There, all the fishing grounds were sold out of the country, leaving virtually nothing of them at home. There is also another clearly expressed point, that the highest bidder should receive the distribution. In fact, it is said that a minister should make suggestions on how to divide these matters. It's a bit complicated when it comes to taking into consideration the basis and the arrangement of making, it's a lot of things. There are seaships, tugboats, Internet boats, boatboats, tarrillas, and dandelion boats. These are the natural groups that we need to consider. They're fired with very different feet. How, then, should we calculate the highest possible invitation? The report shows that the cost of fishing is unlikely to be satisfied until it is determined on market grounds. It may be possible that at some point it will be slow. I don't think we've seen that way yet, that it may bring us more than today's hunt. I've seen no overview of that by going market route, we'll guarantee a higher price. But it may be that the more effective it is, the more effective it is. But I would tell them again that it will always be the strongest of those who can bid in this catch. It's going to be a project that's already very strong on markets, deep - seated with its bank accounts in order. When such an arrangement is to compete against another type of fishing project, it may have been difficult for such an agent to finance a fishing auction today, just as it is in the fishing markets. Now everyone has to be responsible. They are limited to a certain quantity of fish. And since I'm talking about fish markets, of course, it's not right for the buyer and the seller to agree on the price of fish markets. It is merely an offer of fish and the buyer who buys and talks the price. Depends on the amount each time. It's probably the exact same thing as the one suggested here. I also think about this other excellent bill, which may not be enough for us to take your teeth out of a large system by taking one species of fish out of with a different set of rules but instead of having them run out of what we haven't had in the last two terms to go over the fishing system and make many changes in what I and others feel need to do. I don't think we'll be successful in changing the fishing system by tearing one and one tooth out of it. I think we need to take this whole thing together. There are many things that we need to consider in the temple. There are also fractions that need to be improved. I think we need the strength to go to that job and take this whole thing together. We can't go on some exercise trip with cod skin and then plan to have other species come after. Of course, there's been a lot of suggestions about these types, the maximum share they're talking about in this bill. Of course, I don't think there's anything wrong with being discussed at the council and on the job committee and in the council. But when will it be time for a certain species of fish to become so involved that it is not normal for more? There is something that we need to consider. Of course, that is one of the ideas that we need to wonder about when a new system comes. You may then, for example. take all these major species and ask: What is the average distribution of the exorbitant, cod, ufsa, karape, from the beginning of the quota system? And use one of these average invitations, and it will be determined to distribute the amount beyond that in another way, by a messenger, or in some other way. I think we need the strength to talk about this. I agree that we are, of course, in this house, in this hall, responsible for making those decisions. We do not have to look far beyond our limits. In here, there's an excellent knowledge of these matters. We have some very experienced members of Congress with whom you have worked here on the committees. I'm convinced that we can find an excellent way to fix the fishing system. The way out is difficult in many ways. It's hard to go back in this system. If we're going, for example. to provide all available resources, how are we going to reimburse the project that has when there are available resources today? How will we do so if we are going to reach a peak that has been assigned? So, what happens when it comes to cutting down the distribution as we have seen in cod 2007 and 2008, which went down to 130 levels. the ton and is now 244 far. tons? Is there a price to pay if the bid goes down for something? There are many very difficult things to solve in this big case. That's why it's almost dangerous in another fine system we live in, which, of course, is like all good systems: maybe the greatest of the system's advantages are the greatest. That's how it is in the fishing system. There are defects in the extort, but exposition is the most important part of the quota system. This pointed to many paths and the highest. A traveler mentioned the major reconciliation committee, which was just at the council, and the United States led at its time, where a wide agreement was reached between all parties, but the United States government decided not to accept it. Of course, it was very bad back then. So I say, my mind is that we'd have the strength to pick up the fishing system, go through it, instead of taking out one species, and do some special replacements or sharpenings on it. I don't think it'll benefit us. The track's starting to scare. We'll see how these Weekends have gone out of this. They've been in a shit situation. Let us learn from this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. Some of the interesting things that came out there. I appreciate his interest in taking a complete review of the fishing system and the fact that he is ready to change that subject. The deed is one of the basic components of the reservation system, and I heard him say. It is interesting to bear words. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson together with the word. paritaprevir Jón, the son of Valdimarsson, spoke earlier. Now that I have a chance, I'd like to ask you why. A senator would say that, for I couldn't understand why. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindorddursson, in contrast to the fact that he was in principle in agreement with the proposal we address here and the group he poses, has spoken very much about radical changes in the fishing management system through the incorporation of sources and that marketing solutions will be used to offer them back out. Well, these two guys just happen to be sledgehammers. Congress members sit in a more administrative section together. They must have had to agree on the revision in the fishing system that I could not understand but that I could. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson was preaching. Takes it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson under the ideas of restoration, and then the minister of the seaside trade, has proposed which way to go to a review of the fishing system, the drafting process, and then a market discharge?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u72	A respectable president. Thank you for asking from the highest level. Senator. I want to make clear immediately that we have not specifically discussed it, either in corridors or in meetings. It is written in the government covenant, as shown. I have said so in my category, and continue to say what I think, that there are many ways we can go to change the fishing system. I don't think we're supposed to make big, dramatic changes unless we realize they're going to be good. I think it's very important. That they will be giving more to the community, stronger fish stocks and better living for sailors and fishing. I think that's always the key to what we're talking about. I'm not going to rule out a pre-registry process over a period of years and a switch to contracts. It needs to be set up for us what it's gonna look like. We need to examine it together. But I think there are so many things in the fishing system that we can go over and make peace in order to make a general deal about the system. We know that there's not a general agreement about the system. We need to get her to a house. I think that it will be achieved primarily by us in this house as an organization to achieve that reconciliation. I don't think we can be talking about the fishing system like it's a boxing ring, that it's each in its corner, and that no one's gonna give away anything, and everybody wants to have the demolition. I think we need to be able to get together, which is good for us and give long-term peace about the system. I think it's the point, not that there's a question about what I want, but how we get it together, all of us here at the council. I believe it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There was much interesting to find in it. As I said in my previous answer, I look forward to this interesting project in hand, taking a real re-examination of the fishing system. I understood why. A senator would be open to all means of it, also to the induction of legislatures. It's very important, I agree with him on that, to make peace with the system. However, it has been tried for a long time and succeeded, so we are still here from elections where the changes in the system became a matter of elections and obvious lack of agreement. In that respect, I understand very well the transporters of the central bill and the what. paritaprevir A daughter of Oddný G. A Harðardóttir-ass who came into it in his story earlier. It is clear that you are not alone in that assignment, and it will be completed in a short period of time. If all views are to be accepted in this regard, it must take a considerable amount of time. One of the many things we've talked about is that the fishing system needs to be fair and pay a fair price to the nation, the right and true owner of the resource. That's why I wonder which way. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson might think that while working on this overall reexamination, all views are taken in an effort to raise the cost of hunting, which can then be used in the combination that is our whole project. And even taking a look at a special burden on a large, well-seeing projection.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u74	President. Thank you for your continued inquiry. Then I'm going to start with the wrong end and talk about rising hunting fees. Today, it has been eight weeks of the strike, with 57,000 tons of furocate produced, from which Norwegians receive 40,000 tons, and 6,000 tons from which there are 11,000 tons for us. I don't think it's likely to be possible to raise the fishing costs on the surface fleet relative to that. In spite of this, the seawater fleet pays a higher catch rate than the rest. It's built into the system that it pays higher charges. I think the charges must always be what humans can handle. Here at the conference hall, it usually starts with how much you can do for the hunt, how much to do, and then they are put on. Of course, we need to take into account what this arrangement can do for us at any given time. I'd like to be careful with the taxation like everyone else. Of course, she needs to be reasonable. I agree completely with that. Whether they're calling from analystic sources or what ways they're talking about there, I think most importantly, the changes we're going into the system are well considered, because we're in the foundation of a good system. We should not change it unless it has a positive effect on the survival of the article, for sailors, for the development and for society at higher fishing costs. I think that's the exit point. Whether this is the way or not, I'm not that cynical in myself. The most important thing for us is to get some solidarity on the subject. It does not appear to be built in our intention to achieve a solidarity on the seabeds here at the council. We don't seem to have it. That's the problem. And it will be even more difficult if we are going to take one part and change it. Then I think we're going to get into the system first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Although I am grateful that he is participating in the talk on the bill, I can't be particularly happy with the talk. But there is another story, and they were expecting it. Hv. A senator speaks a lot about solidarity. It is in the spirit the bill is presented. I want to change the system into everything. I am convinced that the decrees on the market that are being introduced into careful steps will be good both for the projects and for the people of the country. But that's not what I'm suggesting here. I'm suggesting we take a little step, just take the extra box and ask him out. That doesn't make any difference for those who have a greeting before, and we can practice asking out and see if we can communicate with them at that time. Hv. A senator criticisms that only the codfish is spoken of. That's exactly what it was to keep it simple, to just take the codfish. But now there's a problem. A professional official for whom the bill is being discussed. I hope, then, that he would suggest that there will be additional dolls in all the articles that will be covered so that one article is not being taken out. I'm asking if he likes doing it that way, this experiment. If we do not experiment, we are not likely to be able to build a successful route. It's a small experiment. I want to ask you why. A senator, because he's worried about the survival of the exodus and borrowing of a greeting or a auction, how he likes the idea that I know the Homeys are, that they don't have to pay until they're abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u76	President. I appreciate the company's request. I'm not going to suggest to the pro board that we're going to take all the species into this bill, because I've obviously said that I think that the saying of the greeting system is much more important than we're going to do some experimental version of it. I don't think that's right. There are a lot of things we need to look at, as I've always said here, but we must certainly not do it on short notice and not be anxious about it. This need to be seen in the effects of everything else. Whether the payment for rent would be taken from a fish market or not, a member of Congress asks. Actually, it's just the way I always spoke to a professional committee, that the fishing fee would be a modern price fixed to a percentage of the value of any species that would then be canceled, just like the porting fee. You only have to add one point to the account from the dock office to set in your hunting fee, and that's just what you charge with. Then it goes up and drops down after the assembly that day. You can also think, and I know that an Icelandic market that handles all the productions for the fish market can take a three-month average and calculate from what always moves on every day. I don't object to that kind of payment, and I actually thought it was very normal. But I say what. I'm just saying that I don't think we're supposed to have any sort of experimental activity in the eater system. This is much more than that. The tracks of the Entees in these matters are frightening, for they burned themselves very badly. Let's not get into that deep pit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u77	Mr. President. Now we're just talking about some extra parvota. He has not yet been assigned. That is why it is so good to try to invite him out and train us on the way out. Entres made experiments. They made changes, made plans ahead, and plan to continue and volunteer in 2018. Their tails do not scare. They had the courage to experiment and learn from them, and so should we. I want to ask you why. A senator for his speech here just a simple question: Who owns the sea resource? I'd like to ask who, too. A senator does not think that a market route will be better determined when the price is determined rather than that a politician will decide the centenarian number and there will always be some groups in the society that criticize it and believe that he is taking care of one more than another, and whether offering out the relics is not more likely to settle. And if we don't, we've got a good reason. A senator does not worry that there will be no replacements in this article? Is that not a specific problem we need to face, difficulty in getting into the water?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u78	A respectable president. I'm concerned about recent intervention in this article. I think we all have. And I'm not sure that it will ever be easy to get into this article. This is an expensive article that will be very difficult to get in. Anxiety costs a lot of money, unfortunately. There are not many who start with two hands empty and plan to buy a lot of quotas. It's hard. Of course, while we have coastal fishing and a lot of things in the system, this social aspect, it's about to become thin because there are so many who practice it in kilograms on each hunter all the time, and it keeps getting worse. Of course, that is difficult. I may make a final comment on this subject: The benefit of this bill is that we start discussing these matters and expressing our views. I'm not going to say that one piece of merit is better than another. I'm not going to say that we in this house are always the right people to tell the exactly which price to hunt. When I have a relatively small market that was on markets for fish, I don't know exactly what the price would be when the number of crops has fallen greatly, and they are huge. There's been a very low number of individual types, and the gorilla males are also protected. I'm not sure that even if we agreed to go on this market route, we'd have something more to do with it. Maybe it's not what we're getting out of this, but I think we need to be careful about the changes we want to make on the system and the changes we're going to have to make, and we don't just take out one thing and leave the rest behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u79	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this wonderful bill. This is a good idea, because Piratar was on the bill the last time they suggested it. I think it would have been fine if it had just gone through at the last council. I can say for a moment. paritaprevir Jón Steindór, the Valdimarsson of Valmi, said that, of course, it would be preferable to have a complete review of some kind or at least take a more complete step toward normal system changes, such as auctiones. But I'd like to mean that as long as there's no such bill and there's no evidence to the highest degree. The government intends to produce such a bill is this bill the very best that has been shown toward that goal. And, indeed, if so, this is also the worst, for it is the only bill that has ever happened, as the situation is today, which has a bearing on this goal. Many groups spoke for auctiones in the wake of the last election. Such billing would be a very good goal toward creating an experience from an auction on the land. We hope that we can gradually go toward a general fishing auction system, despite two thirds, or present administration groups, who have walked behind their words on their intention to provide them with resources. That's exactly what interests me. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson says that the hall is the most important part of the fishing system, as he did. I would have thought this was just the biggest crime of the present fishing system, which was also shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. I don't exactly know what his position is. She seems to be opposed to herself. However, regarding this bill, there are some things to be taken care of. For example, it is not wise to include only the highest bidder, despite the fact that this is one of the points taken into consideration, but it may also need to be careful that the other aspects of the distribution rules do not fall completely overboard in the discussion. It must be taken to ensure that there are some distribution rules that make sure that a person cannot come and monopolize the market with a magnificent commission, which under normal circumstances on a free market might not be a likely result, but I would say that a very likely conclusion in this case, precisely because of the formative impact of hunting experience in the current general economy. Also, because of the extent of compression in the past few years, it may be suggested that 12% of the maximum rule is of little value when you divide property into many companies in order to have a larger share in the overall system. In fact, it may be wise to rely on the work that was done in a so - called reconciliation committee at the time. In addition to the highest. Of course, a marine and agricultural minister should seek the assistance of key auction experts to ensure good progress on this matter. But maybe there's one of the reasons, and we need to talk here, and I agree. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson in that we have to decide our own goals on fishing grounds. Also, what are the goals of the fishing system as a whole? Because this is a natural principle for all of our policy and policy and decision-making at this council which is responsible for our management. But in order to make it clear, I distinguish between a fishing government, which means the control of the fishery itself, and a general greeting that, of course, is about saving the resource and the life of the sea. I suggest that the primary objective of the fishing system is three: To maximise efficiency in the fishing road, I'd like to mean that this is not just about the size of the economy that humans tend to feel to protect themselves for today's system but also for another sort of social efficiency and staging price. However, it is known that less agricultural and agricultural designs have been obtained at a higher price than the largest because they are working the product rather and may be trying to achieve quality rather than quantity. So I would say that part of that social efficiency is exactly the importance of ensuring the status of the settlements, not necessarily by some special application - I don't think that the groundbreaking system has carried out its role properly to ensure a position based - but needs to have some further practice to ensure that a single company cannot begin to gather the entire process into one community at the expense of all the others. This, of course, is the result of the present fishing system and the exposé I mentioned earlier, as the people of the village crew were more likely to get to know each other recently. Some smaller invitations might help to strengthen our goals and achieve them well. Finally, however, the natural return of resource resources to the owners of the resource must also be guaranteed, i.e. The people. Of course, auction is far beyond the current market goal. But, as mentioned earlier, the export design is of utmost importance in achieving it. There, I agree completely with it. paritaprevir "Harðardóttir Hardydirdóttir" said before, "It's getting an 18-K." for the kilogram may be relatively low when the price of sales is much higher, even in the market, rent market, and the like is about 200 k. It tells us that there is a big difference between what we are getting through a hunting bazaar who is supposed to be political in some way rather than taking advantage of free markets, when the free market, although available in some swamp movie, gives us no better results than this, and still provides a higher price to those who make money on the available lease system. These are a word of caution and some application and complaints about this bill that I agree with materially, though. I like this one very much, and I can't wait to see it get a career here at the council. Finally, though, with regard to solidarity. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson points out that partnership is a very good project. I'm not the least interested in achieving a solidarity on basics, on goals, on why we're doing all of this and how we're going to run fishing in the interests of society. Then, too, we should take advantage of the facts from events. One fact that matters about this discussion is that their experience in the Faeroes has been very good. They've been doing some experimental work. They've developed these ideas. This is not an experimental work that has already been completed, but it is vital that we consider current experimental projects, make use of the knowledge, build up our own knowledge, and then work together to find the best possible solution. For good reason, such opportunities have been discussed to the extent that they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u80	V.E.G. President. If I understood why. A senator barely likes this bill. It is called an outing, with the idea that the law of the market has control over the use of the resources of fish. However, the report on this bill says that in the implementation of the auction route, rules that take into account localities should prevent compression - it is probably still supposed to have the same roof - and respect the unique status of my outputs. What is this market? Of course, this is no market. I may find the most strange thing to do. A senator did not mention the importance of using a sustainable seabed It is not used anywhere, this auction or an invitation or an offer, except to a small extent in the Faeroe Islands, and it is very controversial. Are people really willing to take such risks as a marketing route and to alter a system that is sustainable, with the greatest amount of production in the world, profit, make a lot of money for the nation? They come in here and they're ready for this kind of bill and they're going to destroy the system because they think it might be more righteous. Of course, this will never be just. Some auction route where only those who have access to loans will never be righteous. How will they go to an auction? Even next year, we do not know if it will be furturbated or herring. It's totally unthinkable to me. [[The president calls.]] How's it going, man? A senator answering that question?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u81	Mr. President. I think it's a really nice question. Senator. Where's the free market today? Is it not the common principle of the Independence Party that free markets are good? I thought so. I love free markets, and although free markets may depend on some kind of rules that limit how individual business can take place, it is quite different from the fact that the state is partly divided by its head and by the rules that are totally politically determined. Free markets are about how individuals and businesses on the market can get together on things, including them. Containing prices. There's something we can do here. Sustainableness, of course, is very important, but sustainability is not just a matter of maximizing the profits and income of certain companies. While fishing costs were 12.8 billion in 2012 and 9.2 billion in 2013 and 7.7 billion in 2014 and have declined, the commercial interests of companies have followed exactly the same pattern as that of 6.3 billion in interest to owners in 2012 of 13.5 billion 2014. I don't know exactly what the goal is if it is. A senator assumes that he is merely trying to make the most money for the owners of the marine industry. I would say that the social goals involved in trying to get a lot of money for the people in order to carry out their national assignments and to create as much profit and sustainable development for the companies working on this market are two goals that do not need to be opposed to each other. But that's the situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u82	V.E.G. President. It is not just about what the State pays or how it taxes the article on a certain occasion. It's just not like that. There is much more to this trade than that. Of course, we need powerful companies that make money so that someone wants to invest in this article. That's basic. But an auction into the uncertainty of a system that works very well makes me feel very at risk and not thinking more clearly. That's what I'm saying. We can always debate the proportion of money that runs into our common fund. There's another discussion in my mind. However, this method is unlikely to be carried out. There will be an even greater compression. Yet, we still have a company of over 200 in the country. Of course, this is to disrupt the very system with absolute uncertainty that society will have more money than its present system. That's what this is all about. If you're going to go through this uncertainty - the greatest risk addicts, you wouldn't even do that. I'm amazed that men may contribute to a better consideration. First thing. A senator spoke of the Faeroe Islands being offered or auction there in a very different way, obviously it was open to guests and walking. There's a lot of big designs in the world that offered to do this. This can affect what is linked to the national industry, profiting from fish farming, etc., instead of working by some large factory leaders in the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u83	Thank you. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson for other excellent questions about what these decrees are for. I'd think this was some kind of experimental activity. They are putting forth an effort to take only the increase that will result in total anxiety and to use it in trying to understand the nature of such a free market and whether it can become more efficient than the present system. These are experiments of liberality rather than of promoting increased compression. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson has strong faith that the present system is a good thing to hear about, for example, what he has to say to. The people of the village or of the rest of the country who in recent years have lost their way of saying goodbye. You see, there is something that when we talk about practicality and such things, we cannot just think about how much money comes from taxes, for that in itself is an extra factor. The key point is that there is a reasonable system that makes it possible for all to get to the subject in a natural way. That's what's missing today. I think that putting on minor experiments to build experience on such an auction system and trusting in the law of the free market would be an amazing benefit in Iceland, and I find it amazing that there is. A member of the Independence Party cannot imagine going into a free market. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u84	A respectable president. I take my mind as a matter of principle. The most important part of the operation within the fishing system is that of me, of my opinion, the recent process, both in fishing and in the process. However, there is concern in the wording of the bill that sources should go to the highest bidder for an isolated small eviction, as proclaimed here for the final increase in cod. Then the largest members in this article could easily cross the smaller ones, thus increasing the rifts in the article. However, a report shows that the viewpoints of the community and innovation are goals on their own. I believe that with slight changes and nails, the bill could become the tool that governments need to unwind from the collection of wealth and power within a narrow group of the fishing road at the expense of the land. The results could be used and a natural price for fish at the local market. A maintenance room could, e.g. taking into account the landlord's price of retails for the price of purchases of vertical integrates and creating incentives for not offering too high a price for the leases. This would increase the chances of recruits in getting some of the cake, and it could also encourage separation fishing and processing. Otherwise, I welcome the proposal and persistence of an importer for volunteering it in the present political environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u85	V.E.G. President. When you look at this bill, as you may have mentioned in the past, it's very difficult for me to figure out the market route. I don't see how this can be done at any market when the real estate is still at its height, taking into account the basis and respecting the particular status of my preparations. This is not a market route to me. It's just an application that I like quickly simply leads to a possibility that there might be an even greater compression, absolutely uncertain whether higher fish get actually, at least Not in the long run, into the state fund. The consequences of changing the system in this way have not been determined. What effect will this have on the processing and building of more than what has already become? All research and coverage is missing. However, we live in a system with a history that, of course, has proved unbelievable. After 1983, when we went from free fishing to a limited resource that created overinvestment, bad use of the products, less expertise, more fishing than you had to do, to what did this lead? Here was an eternity of gangfalls, with a related failure, so that we could still sell fish and get currency. It was all about currency. Fortunately, this free fishing in a limited resource was not going much longer. We were unable to continue in such a stop period, as it was from 1970 to 1990. We're following our tails. We had 130% inflation. To go on record simply to earn a currency. Who brought the failings to a coward? All the public in the country. We went into the dinner system, the map system. We were, of course, in trouble. Who would be included in the total volume at any given time? A lot of legal work was done around it. They remember it here, perhaps the oldest, and they may have been in on it. Yes, they found that they alone could share this share that would have used the resource. Their right to protect them from the rights of possession of the Constitution. That's how this comes about, for information to those who have not seriously wondered about it. This is what makes it possible for the individual to be included in the total resources. The big advance step is then taken for greater efficiency, so this would be a real business from this with the authority to hand out resources. The exposition was of utmost importance to achieve economy. We just have to admit it, whether we like it or not. Thus, amazing practicality was achieved. But at this point, when the warrants move to fewer hands, the fear of many politicians began to develop in these circumstances some direct right to the resource, which, of course, was of course, of course, of no concern to me. No direct right of possession is to be formed in this way when it comes to innovation. And they put in the 1990 Act about fishing management, in order to ensure safely that those with financial resources would not possess the fish with direct ownership. That is why they put it this way: This is the national partnership. On the other hand, in this way the nation does not produce a direct right of possession. The people have no social security number, they cannot be involved. But only this one provision has revealed that my discussion of the management of the fish industry and has been mistaken since then. With just one set of rules, it really works with a lot of thought to make money from the nation's resources, to go to someone else. That it can benefit someone else, that it can profit from it, is very difficult. When people talk about the need to be just and contented in the system - I put it right here in the paper that it will never be satisfied with the control of fishing or fishing while someone is making a lot of money from his investment in this article. Because it's a profit from our property. The resource, the fishing system, was originally to be reconciled by fishing costs. Then it was done. All on the Independence Party watch. It was done. What happens then? Still there is profit in some place. Somewhere there is profit. That's just the front line. And then what? Yeah, it's a special fishing fee. On the whole system. All the valuables that will be gone until the fish is in your belly. Much more than the resource as such, just from the whole system around this. Wait, then make money anyway. The economy is so high. Then the system will always be unfair. Some people are profiting from my resource. Only for these reasons will this system never be satisfied. Of course, what we politicians need to think about is the total interest rates, national interests. Not whether any one or two or three or any six enterprise achieves 6, 10 or 12% interest in their own enterprises. Which isn't even great. And in the best of circumstances. There will not be any profit in the years ahead. This is just a reality we face. It's not gonna be okay. But for the present system, for a short period of 30 years, the economy and profit have been laid, and most important, the nation has been growing. Because of the strong business we have in the fishing industry, there have been a number of technical developments and a number of services to my company. The benefits of this sustainable system and the production of each person are with the best that happens in the world, regardless of the sector. Then come the senators here in the name of justice and even some market solution, which is now completely absurd, saying, "Now we are going to overthrow this system. " Now we're going to make an auction route. And believe that an absolutely unattainable issue would result in greater gain for the nation. That the nation could gain more money from the resource in this way. Without any means to prove it to me. Then it's become a prince's solution. First, the market does not work particularly well for limited resources. Yet, there is a great market. These expeditors are buying and selling. If I think I can run a craft better than this one who has a warrant, and he's willing to sell me at a price, that I can run it better, I can buy and go to a fishing project. It's full of new recruits. I wonder what Samherji meant about the beginning of the greeting system. 5% of what he has today. It's all bought resources. More or less all Samherja's resources. And most companies. It's all more and less bought. It was on the market. There's a lot of resources on the market. While they may be expensive, they will, of course, be reduced when money becomes smaller and fishing less expensive. I will never agree to go down the system, although perhaps with a smaller operation here, in view of the election reserves that some grouped, and to the complete uncertainty of the sector which has, of course, been incredibly important for the nation all along, a profession that creates direct income in the estate beyond any other income and all that is involved. That men come here and plan to overthrow the system and make their way into the unknown. I think it's an incredible irresponsibility. I'm not saying the present system is perfect. It may well be possible to edit some limitations. Of course, we can continue to debate over what is normal taxation. And I'm saying exactly as I am, and I've always said, "Those who have some sort of exclusive right to the use of limited resources will pay something for it. But I don't want to put forth more effort so that people are willing to give up their money and that's a natural interest in the whole article. Because if we go too far in it, we're shooting at ourselves. They see every man. But this system will probably never be perfect. Never. But I'll never agree to get into the uncertainty of this. I don't know that any nation or a few experts in this field thought it was wise to take such a route. I'd rather discuss this on the basis of whether we could have a simpler way to make a tax recovery, a more reasonable way possible. It can be considered. What should be a high percentage of the total thing, etc. I'm open to all that. But I'll never, ever agree to anything like this because I can't afford someone who's taken the risk of making a profit even if I owned the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u86	Mr. President. Thank you for this strange speech. I hear what you're saying. A senator criticizes the climax to individual companies. I'd like to ask you what. A senator believes that at the market where many companies compete, it is the normal part of the economy that individual enterprises are not only well over 10% share of the resource but are allowed to enjoy that share without paying ten times that amount. Let's just take an example of two companies, one of them pays 18 bucks. ... apoundand the other company will pay for 200 bucks. a pound. I'm asking why. A senator thinks that's a normal arrangement. Also, I want to ask myself, " How do I do? ' paritaprevir Hermies Níelsson imagine the future of the present system as it turns out. How many companies does he expect to work in a fishing field in ten years? And in how many settlements are these companies going to operate? How many employees can he picture there? What does this mean for the settlements that are excluded? In particular, I would like to ask what this means for the West, for the East, for smaller settlements in the South. The result? What is the vision of the future that the present system offers that causes it? A senator's concern is so great that we engage in minor attempts to create some kind of righteous system that we can so, if it turns out it wasn't a good idea, back-up? This is an experiment we're talking about, an attempt to try to achieve some kind of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u87	V.E.G. President. It is not surprising that the simple truth may sound strange in Pirata's ears. [[Up front.]] But, of course, I can't answer how many companies will in the years ahead work in each community. But I can inform the senator that in this system, very strong societies have developed that were much weaker than before. Thorves, maybe more. After all, the thought may not have been that all societies would maintain something. It was clear that there would be some practicality. It may have been a slightly stronger core, although it did not have the exact quality of human life. It included a measure of practicality, and it did not contain anything unusual. But I'm quite sure that by going some way, it may not change everything with this case, which may not be a major part of it, but if this route is generally gone, it will have a much greater impact on the overall interest in society, which, of course, is the main thing. That's the overall interest difference. Not necessarily that every community is up to this and can be invited, as appears to be the thought of these settlements. I don't know how they're going to do this exactly, but that's not exactly what they're saying here. But in the end it may be about the overall interest of having, for example. a strong core for every quarter of the country. Create a strong core in which we have profit - making societies, communities that can also withstand the crisis, and the lack of income. [[The president calls.]] It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u88	Mr. President. I hear the fallacy continues. What I would like to ask, even if that is true. paritaprevir Brynjar's armoring Níelsson has insufficient vision to predict the consequences of his ongoing fishing system is whether he can answer my previous challenge. I wanted to know if he thought it was normal for two companies at the same market that are even otherwise similar, to another 18 k. the kilogram for a resource that must be paid 200 bucks. a pound before.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u89	Is it somewhere like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u90	Yeah, this is the lease. [[Up front.]] It's just a matter of renting. And, actually, there's 200 bucks. Just a little too much, it's like 197 bucks. or about the moment, I may not be right about the number, but I want to know: Is this normal? Is this the free market for what it is? A senator support himself? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u91	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u92	V.E.G. President. An invitation or auction will not change anything in this relationship. I'm not saying that everything is perfect, as I said before in my speech, in this system. It's a market, though. It's both rentable and you can buy. Such is the reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u93	Is that normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u94	Yes, that's normal. It's more natural than offering it up with one of these limits in this way. This is all normal. The problem we have is that we have a limited resource. That's the problem we have. And we also have the problem that those who have used the resource like all other resources have priority for the resource. You don't take it from men and offer it. That's not possible. Yet, there are a lot of people who believe it, perhaps even half the people who believe you can take from those who have used a resource and offer it to someone else. It will never happen, and it will never be done, and courts would never approve of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u95	Rather, it is drudgery that all technological advances are attributed to the amendment system. The target system in the present form is highly inhibited by the fact that young people are being held back. As a matter of fact, Samherji started with 5,000 tons of codfish in his back pocket. That's a little different from, like, a little bit of a situation. Coastal fishing, which may have ten. In technical progress. It was on the drawing table in 1983 to extract an enzyme from a trio. It just didn't look cool because we sold so much cod. They said it was in the Team Bank, I think, to lend a loan for it. That some people have infiltrated it 35 years later is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u96	V.E.G. President. Someone earlier spoke of my having a strange speech. No, it is not possible for technological advancement to be confined to the target system. But we who are older than two winters will remember time of station, poor use, when the resource was treated badly. Then came a system, which I now want to thank for the highest. Most of the Senate's president is different, but he is not a member of the body that I am, an amalgamation system, and expeditation. The changes were so rapid, and the power and mattresses, and the raw materials were completely different. We're gonna make a lot of money in business after a long break-up. And the technological progress, the requirement for better use. How do you make a business like Marel? Because the design required the maximum use of money, and said that we should do well because we were loyal, we had the right to hunt, we could have some vision, we could plan things. As a result, there was a lucrative and sustainable fishing industry. That's the main explanation. Then people come here and they're just gonna throw it out and invite somewhere to catch someone who may not even be hunting but who has access to the loan money, that's the vision of the future. I don't think there's any future in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u97	I was obliged not to speak to a president at the beginning of my strange speech earlier. I apologize for that. So I say, "Air Force One." The wonders and wonders began in the hall, leading to commercialism. An enormous investment took place outside the article. Then came an enormously famous interview, where a prominent member of the community began to talk about having to tickle the pin more or more. And then Iceland collapsed. It's a direct result; the deed and then the collapse. Would it not be convenient to get rid of the bets from the banks, supply the sources, and say yes, prevent another crash?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u98	V.E.G. President. It may well be that some believe that expeditation on the market caused an international bank crisis. I think it's going a long way. I'm not gonna protect myself that there was a very special situation up here from 2000, how Iceland kept herself financially clean, not just the people who sold themselves from the story, but all the people on the fly, had endless access to loans, spent a lot of money on the subject, and so on. We all have responsibilities. But how simple it is to claim that the sale of retails has caused a global banking crisis!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u99	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The armor of the son of Níelsson for a very inspired and high - sounding speech earlier. Me and what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son will soon agree on the fishing plan, and we will be even less inclined to agree on the righteousness of the fishing system and whether it will benefit every citizen of this country in the same way. Hv. A senator noted that the increase in profits made to the community from the article was increasing. I would like to ask him to explain his words further because, as we know, 2012 to 2014, the total 5 billion dollars per year went from 12.8 billion to 7.7 billion, while interest payments to owners increased in the same period more than twice that, i.e. 6.3 billion and 13.5 billion in 2014. Is he referring to interest rates? Or what exactly does he mean when he speaks of money for society?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u100	V.E.G. President. When I was talking about growing interest in society, I was talking about the present system, from the once existing system. Of course, income for the land's owners and money for the people of their bones will depend on how well they are doing. This is just how it's connected today, how well you're doing today, in the article. It was true of the never - causing increase in 2013 that the project was to be reduced for a reason. We made that up to the ideas that lived by the advanced management that it would have very bad consequences for much of the development. We knew that some companies could, but it was understood that this would have very bad consequences for other types of projects that were important in many communities and that the damage would not be undone. We can talk about it, but that's why. Not only do I look at direct tax returns like fishing fees but I appreciate it as the benefit of the entire nation that there is here a powerful factory that can survive the disaster, the economic failures that have always occurred in history and will always be. This profit worketh somewhere, it maketh something. Of course, humans have paid off money. It may have been 10% in 2014, in the best year of the production ever and ever. Someone would say, " Wait, if I'm going to go into a business like this, I feel that I should get more money from my money than if I had a bank. ' [[The president calls.]] This is not an unnatural gain for the entire population.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u101	You're right next door. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son that we can argue about this, and I'm sure we'll do it more often. I would have thought, though, that it would be beneficial for the nation to have more money for this article than in direct interest to the owners of the fishing industry. I would have thought so. I think deep down is a whale. A senator agrees. When he speaks of the terrible consequences of the fishing fees at the fishing companies, they have been no worse than that, as I explained earlier, that money has increased from 6.3 billion to 13.5 billion to the owners themselves. This is how money has been developing. I do not fully understand the terrible consequences of the hunting fee in the article when the article has been growing and prospering, especially in remunerations to the owners and not to the rest of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u102	V.E.G. President. I pointed to earlier that there are many companies that could pay more for a direct fee. Some companies even get most of their profits from abroad, such as Samherji. This company could pay. But taxation wasn't their only business, it was all companies. - Yeah, as soon as it's such taxation... as part of a factory could handle, somebody else couldn't help it. [[Up front.]] Let us discuss how the taxation is to be done, how it will be most reasonable. I may not be talking about it here. But that's not what I feel about it. When appropriate, let's get to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u103	Looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u104	Yeah. And prepare it. I'm not saying this system is perfect. I'm telling you, if I had any money, I wouldn't invest in a risk-making industry in the same money as I could get from a bank. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] No. Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u105	A respectable president. Piranus and I support a whole mind auction on resources, and we've been fighting for it since the election. - Don't you want to stay in the gym, boys? [[For example: Yes, yes, we are here.]] Yeah. I want to draw attention to it and to think that there is no difference between me and knowing that in Iceland there is an amendment system, i.e. it is one of the overall protocols decided that it is wise to hunt and that the parties will be assigned a designated section of these total resources each year as they have been. The question, as already established, is, What is the ideal right of this monarchy to take to certain parties? So far, the debate has been discussed on how the taxation should be and how to evaluate the value of 355 billion dollars. pay of interest over a few years to the owners of the partners will be distributed to the nation that is moralally justified by the owner of this resource. I find it a little strange that men, especially those who are declared on the right wing, should talk about not understanding what is a marketing approach to offering tracts and talking like they're giving this to someone here and there by random. The reason this is a marketing approach is that the prices in a market competition are likely to result, for those who are extremely concerned about the sustainability of the article and its progress and its yields, that those who are involved in the move in the country will not offer more than they trust to survive and make money. As the market works in competition, they or those who say are willing to pay for these uses so that they will assume that they will still make money on the market. The market, that's what it's all about. Therefore, members of the Parliament are concerned about as well as I do, so they should make sure that the business of the article never goes below the limit because they do not pay more than they are willing to pay. I don't know how this can be complicated. It is just talking about how different taxes can be made, what smaller parties can be, and how the profits should be paid. This is precisely the taxation process, which takes into account the individual market conditions, considering that the process never pays more than it can handle, but it is always as much as it can, so that it can still make money before it gets its rightful interest. I kind of regret that people always get mixed up in this discussion... that our goal system is so great... that they can make themselves self-sustained if we have goodbyes. There's no disagreement about that. The decision is how much to prepare for this quota and what it will be like. I can't see that any objector here has shown that offering a free-marked box, where the arrangement itself is actually a matter of free competition for how much it pays, will fall. I'd be curious if they weren't too far off, if they were willing to respond, as they would further explain their position with special reference to free market prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u106	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son here made some comments about the ability of some companies to pay higher fishing costs than it is now, not others. Then the natural question is, Why was it not simply decided that these companies, based on some particular profits, paid higher fishing fees? It must be because they were to be spared. So I'd like to point out that I talked to a candidate about it in a very large business of my district of district of South America, and I asked him straight about it. Now it's about 15 companies with 50% quathane. It's all about how practical it is, how practical it is. I simply asked him: " Where shall we stop? 60 percent? 70%? 80% of the quathane? This fine man I'm not going to mention because he's not here, couldn't answer that. The point, of course, is that the compression has gone far beyond any limit. There's nothing practical about that. Finally, a few words on sustainability. There may not be a disagreement on the sustainable recovery system when it comes to fish institutions itself, i.e. The natural factors, but they always forget about sustainable development that there are three aspects of sustainableity, not just one, not just nature. That's the social factor, and that's the economic factor. You can look at the region where people have slowly settled down and asked themselves if it was social sustainability. I don't think so. Similarly, the economic factor can be looked to and asked if running the fishing system as it is is is is really economicly sustainable. It's my introduction to these discussions here in a hurry. But I am quite convinced that the discussion on this subject does not explain the matter well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u107	Madam President. Well, I'm not gonna call it a wearer, but there's this kind of next town on it. Hv. paritaprevir The armoures of Brynjar's Níelsson made me perfect under my head, seeking a full share, that I thought, in his speech earlier and that I was in a state of sadness. A senator has left the hall. It is fine if they come and give talks that they will be there for the discussion and will be able to object if someone comes. As far as I'm concerned, I've been a special sponsor and helped to pick up the greeting system. Of course, historically, that is very wrong. It is true that I was at the council when the greeting system was set up in December 1983 and still remembers the long, hard discussion that then took place. I was among those who were opposed to the arrangement it was designed for, and particularly against the rights procedure, that they were assigned to one party in this article, i.e. the structure, and e.g. There would be no part of the rights that everyone could see to be laying the foundation by closing the article and assigning the access to the tickets. If there had been another way in Iceland, there would be different things to look at, as it were, in the beginning. Then it's also nice to remind you how this was pushed through the council at the end of the year, after the big night meeting and day that the people said they had to agree with the system, I wasn't part of the group, that it was temporary for one year. Many of the members of the then administrative body justified their support of the case by doing so, this would be temporary provision, emergency arrangements for a black report on the status of fish stocks, and this would not last longer than one year. Senators of the West, e.g. from the board of directors, who supported the recording of the saying system, now not all wanting to know much about it later, justified their participation in it. That is what happened years later. It is true that I was in that group that gave them votes, and I sat in that government, but I was not its founder but was then a marine minister. I feel that I am quite successful in taking credit to the work of Ásgrímsson the son of Asgrim in these matters, that I am a special founder of this one. That was a very difficult compromise, but then there were still other times. Then it's time to remember, for example. to the smaller part of the fleet, i.e. The small boats and smaller boats were then in an open system. It had not been shut down in the way that came to pass. In that change, we also agreed on extensive counter measures to allow for expansion of hunting warrants within the system within the layer that was then bound by the catch target. This was not appropriate in the years that followed, since it was quite clear that this would result in compression and compromise in the article. It could be painful for various settlements, so it was to be followed by considerable arrangements and started with them. Then come the first integrated and social measures, to be said, within the system. They were to be far more extensive than was then to be done. The situation was certainly still present, so there was much extra power in the fleet. The fishing industry was far beyond what men thought was safe to catch in those years, and the fleet continued to shrink, and much discussion took place. So I wanted to make a presentation in order to keep it in the Senate all the way because I'm bored when people are trying to beat bowling in this way. I noticed in the campaign because I happen to be one of the few people remaining in politics in those times, that it's funny and convenient for humans to make me one of the world leaders in this situation. Of course, I'm well aware that there are people in Iceland who find it most comfortable to blame me for everything that has gone wrong in Iceland for the past 30 years and that somehow I will be responsible for the bank collapse as well as so on. It is a very comfortable black/white view for those who never face themselves, as the blackest hold doesn't, which is known. It's so remarkable with the Independence Party he's not a class, as men have long understood, and could be quoted from the former minister of foreign affairs of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who probably owns the most famous analogy of the unnamed phenomenon in Central America. It is a much greater conflict of interest, but it is primarily a church - their church of religion that the Independence Party is always right, never making mistakes - never making a mistake, he is always right. I thought why. Níelsson A bit polluted by this upbringing in the Independence Party when he spoke here. Of this, childishism is like a possession of the saying system all the positive things that have happened in the fishing industry in Iceland. That's bullshit, of course. It has certainly contributed to a certain development, but there is not one. How do you think of applying it to the peristaltic system, to the amendment system, or to the expeditation, that there have been developments in the management of resources and quality in the Icelandic fishing industry? Yes, it can be a contributing factor in gradually shrinking from the power of thinking while men could draw unlimited amounts and increase their income by just catching the most. At that time, there were times in a fishing field, with less emphasis on quality. But this was also because in those days people were offered food of far less good quality than humans do today. It was not all the skiing that was done in those most lucrative years when people worked in the houses where they could, the rest went out on the ground, and then they hung by incidents in all kinds of conditions and sold to Africa. Happily, times are much different, and they would be very different either way because food quality requirements are very different today. And the market itself would have contributed more or less to such developments, although there was no greeting system in Iceland or even if they were conducting the application by some other method. Of course, when you apply all of this, sustainable fishing in Iceland into the eater system, it's also naive because there are so many other methods in which you control how much you go to fish stocks. You can have the confidence that this is the best way to do this, but it's far from the only way. That is not the only way. The number of fish - protection operations is always overlooked in the fishing debates. There are also rules on fishing instruments, grid sizes. It's a two-way weekend. There's a spawning stop. There are all kinds of activities mixed with the exact amount of resources that can be withdrawn from each source which combines the resource communications guidelines. If we want to discuss this objectively and in some sense, let's just keep things as they are. It's not that it's just a fictitious system, and it solves things, let alone thanks for everything. Then, too, those who speak in such a way will reflect on the question and answer themselves or others: Wait, then, should not the amendment system also be the drawbacks they have followed? You can't separate these two. Let us not speak as if all of this were just so wonderful and wonderful. Yes, there are, but there are many others who have gone horriblely out of this system. Because of what? paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son named Thors Harbor for some sort of coincidence, so it's true. I love my home, the Turbine. There, changes have been made only well. But we also know how things have been going around us, at Redfaring, at Bakkadar, Breundaldalsvík, and then we know the troubles of Flattage. Aren't they going to know them, lndependence, when they close the system? This is not to say that everywhere it has been so unfashionable and wonderful. In some respects, there have been some of the most integrated, social, and human disasters in Iceland, what the system has done to parts of the sea. It is completely unjustistic and indefinable how humans have passed it over at the expense of the people living there. Or do people not remember the times when residents of the Runfaring crew would pretend to be good if they were able to deliver the key to an excellent house and get one million for it because their feet were pulled away from the existence of those places and left behind without property and rights in the system? And the cost, social and human costs of these adaptations in the fishing business was taken. It shouldn't have been like that. It is not natural to think that the teamwork would have had to become so much. Of course not! There is no physical laws that tell humans that a major fishing business is necessarily more practical than a small business. However, the system has progressively nurtured into it the monotonous process. It has, in fact, done so. through the prices of the resource, in the hands of the men it became difficult to make generation change, especially for monotonies, since each generation would then have to buy out the access to the next one before itself, etc. That does not necessarily mean that there is much justice. If we're going to talk here properly about a fishing road - it was a time when such a talk, a seabed bill, would never take less than two days here at the General Assembly. Never. It was usually about three, four days in the event of a sea - road talk. This may be just a little sample, a little hint that a seabed can be spoken in Iceland. Then let people just talk about things the way they happen and the rest. For this bill, which you may now have to mention from the fact that you have entered the platform, I want to say that I often think it -- I have often wondered about the possibility that humans will be able to manage species in ways that are different from what they already are, especially when they are, as in the cod now, that we are assigned to the annual fishing grounds that have come up far beyond ten years of equal capacity. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Right away. paritaprevir Emessints Brynjar's Níelsson says: "Do you think that it is possible to take justice from those who have it and give it to someone else even if it is an auction? No, it can't be done, says Brynjar, the courts would stop it. That's where I disagree with the lawyer. There he makes false remarks. [[Up front.]] There is no doubt that governments can establish grammatical rules on the access to this common resource. It's not a right to own, huh? A senator and former president of the National Law Association of Iceland, as could be learned from the above words. [[Laughter Assembly Hall.]] It is true that such rules and adjustments need to have normal adjustments, and they need to be objective. You can't do anything. However, it is absurd to argue that current fishing warrants can make some special requirements for them to automatically gain a raise in each species, in line with their share, when e.g. such that it is far beyond the equal force of the past 10, 15. Then I view it as my law that the government can establish any perennial rules about the treatment of the additional resources. It is not a memorizing with them. [[Up front.]] It is not overreaching, and the Supreme Court confirms this. Happily, however, the Supreme Court has generally taken a stand for the changer by the national resources and support of Article 1. a law on the control of fish, which may still be missing into the constitution. I'm going to hope that it's not going to happen again with the archipelago attempts to try to talk the rights of property back into it. Or have men become so proud again that they have this enormously large part of the council, have such a fine vote, and are holding up less than half of the people in this majority government that now they believe they can do anything? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Do they now have Iceland back, the warriors, like here by 2007? No, let's hope not. Of course, it would be very good to decide on the provision of additional sources of this kind that if we expect something to be increased in the next year, which, unfortunately, may not be much, then there will be an additional provision in other ways, and for example. Just as long as it's under control. I had it calculated at my time what the codfish would have to grow again so that all the impairments were indeed reversible and taken into account in the current socially based measures, 5.3% of the time, there calculated to be such a person in the range of 220◯230 you. a ton. Above that, I view the situation as a way to justify taking the catch differently. But I'm not necessarily sure, and it wouldn't be my first offer, offering it on a rather vague basis. I'd use it to increase structure in the system, to promote coastal fishing and to develop more sustainable types of that kind. It would be great to take a few thousand tons of codfish increase, if someone will be on the next year's fish, and do it somehow. It was now my brief innuendo, to accuse me, Madam President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u108	Madam President. It was a refreshing speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon as he was hoped and referred. There is now, and there will be no dispute that the international banking crisis will not be written in his account. I just want to talk in a material way about the saying system, payment, etc. and ask why. A senator and an ex-whipped man. High - tech minister how he sees it as right in general to take in the fishing grounds. Whether or not this should depend on bone survival, e.g. on income taxes for fishing companies, or on whether the present arrangement is reasonable and just regardless of the sum involved. But I don't quite understand if the Minister -- what. Senator, I'm so accustomed to it. Senator versus Minister of Ministers, I need to get used to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u109	Wishfulness.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u110	I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does he really want to organize the use of the sea resources, in what way? I felt this way about him as a picker, on the one hand, he was in favor of the quota system. But then in the other word, he seemed to be an adversary to it and to be a coward. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is it so that he believes that despite all his failings, it is wise to keep moving forward and developing the saying system? Or does he want to surround the system with everything and pick up an application system or what it is like now? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u111	Madam President. Let's just hope that I'll be a minister as soon as possible. þm. Óli Björn Kálmsson can take his joy, and he doesn't need to offend when he's supposed to address me as a minister. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is a good question, though, how is it most profitable to pay for the fishing in the fishing field? I think my answer may be fairly valid, because I had high-level legislation developed on it, that is the approach that has generally been exasperating in the world regarding taxation of limited resources use, and, in particular, natural resources, i.e. the resource connection. In this small isolated congregation meeting at home, we often forget that we are not alone in dealing with this problem. This is a trend in the tax rights, which is on a global scale and recognized that it is natural that when given access to a limited resource, a restricted natural resource, which automatically leads to a change of value because the resource is limited, I don't talk about it if it is rich too, and it makes good use of it, especially paying a price for it. In other words, the taxation is not considered sufficient on the other side of the economy or the economy. An example of this is, of course, oil, our fish and other energy resources, etc. This is mainly the logical and best way because if this resource use did not bring any special profits, the usual income tax would increase. But if the access makes value in itself, and getting that access brings special benefits. It's a resource. Therefore, in my opinion, the best approach is to take a closer look at the contents of this article as well as to capture the extra resource, the resource, and then decide its exchange between the owner of the resource, the nation, and the one that uses it. [[The president calls.]] I'm not so demanding that the people should have him 100%, but they can be strongly reasoned that they should have a very high percentage of the additional desert. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u112	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much. Perhaps there will be an opportunity for us to discuss this important matter further. The problem with the resource use, however, is how we find it out. You see, it depends on who's holding it. The resources of one company may be much higher than the resources of another. It depends on the way men do things, how wise they are. It even goes. Depending on the way man handles the sea level, it also depends on how the market is carried out and on the general market and what the results are. So the resource in itself is a beautiful, noble goal, and it may be wise, but the problem is to find out who it really is. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is as different as there are many of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u113	...published.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u114	Mr. President. All methods can be found to prevent them. Of course, those who don't want any currency focus on that side of the story, the problem of fishing, the problem of catching the resource, etc. But all of this is now done, and all of this is solved, and all of this is technically possible. In some places, it is quite clear with a cruel gross gross taxation, as it was with oil. Then you just take a lot of the money and confiscate it, don't worry about each person's goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u115	Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u116	No, there could be a way to use the reconstituted route. That's what humans do. There may be evidence that the more you can break this down on the use of each species, and even to some extent according to the size of your enterprise, you will draw closer to it. But going down into a single company also has spectacular flaws. You can say that if it's just taken out and read out of their business, you're going to win your cunts. [[The president calls.]] Then they don't pay anything to run their business badly, but the very many who run their business well. Somewhere in between, this needs to be. The same problem arises on the other side regarding the idea that only taxes pay the profit, the hands of gold skins, and avoid the payment by such means. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u117	V.E.G. President. Looks like it's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Stegirdur had done something in the president's chair earlier when I gave the talk, perhaps working on it from time to time, listening to a word. I never claimed that any of the resources were owned by any of them, not at all. I said, however, that it will not be that way on the basis of man's using this resource, creating certain property rights or rights protected by the Constitution's special rights, and I'm not talking about things that would be increased or a new species of fish. I was simply saying that you don't call on one board a fishing warrant or share a project, and you don't offer it to another. It's not gonna happen. Hv. The senator must have known why men were going along the way when the cry system was being established, in view of a hunting experience that was complex and natural and was not avoided when they were assigning resources at their time. Another big misunderstanding. A senator says that I have claimed that the dinner system and the exposé are perfect and that the explanation for everything that went well today is clear. That's not what I'm saying, either. I told you, it's got a lot of problems. It's not perfect. However, in the decades ahead, we had an unsurpassed seabed, overinvestment, poor use of resources. All of this changes with the changed system. There may be other factors that may have influenced this. It is also possible to say the same thing as "woe. " A senator, that it had happened anyway, had been decades before, and there had been no change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u118	Madam President. No, it wasn't like I could sleep in the chair because I couldn't. A senator spoke so loudly. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] What a fuss he was in here. It's good to go. A senator will review what he was actually speaking about, which I thought was pretty close to being the Constitutionist, if not a direct ownership right, then at least In part in the hands of the deforestation. This is an old-fashioned dreammaker and discussion. I'm happy if I'm not. Now the law is perfectly clear. This is the nation's common resource. It is also clear in other respects that the distribution of rights is only one year at a time. That's it. [[Up front.]] True, it is an untimely law, but its distribution is annual. This is not a contract for some particular time, as men have at times been discussing, it is an annual distribution. Of course, most people agree, not all, but more than former Supreme Court judges have believed that the State could do virtually what it seems every year with this right. I don't think so. I think it's pretty clear that changes made by the government must meet general standards there, i.e. to conform to a moderate order and not to be so unfair and burdensome that it is not justified. As a result, humans have generally felt that there would be a time for adaptation, or they would have to be proportional, the expiration of any part of the fishing warrants, etc. One way would be to send out a report like the Faeroes to announce that in 10 years, 15 years, all fishing clearances will be free and no one can expect them above others, everyone would have the adaptation time to prepare for a new system like that. may be valid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u119	V.E.G. President. It's that close to a song that came out of the question. Senator. On the basis of the Supreme Court, of course, we can decide that this will be a free hunt. But taking off rights is a completely different arm. They have bought this portion, they have bought it for an expensive judgment, and it doesn't happen this way. I can be sure that's what I'm saying. A senator that courts will never admit that humans can accept this novelty, which, of course, is protected from the Constitution, on a single board without benefit. It is true that long - term, long - term adjustments can be made. It may not be unusual. But you can't do that on one board, as some categories said before elections, to just type and sell the labour warrants to the highest bidder. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u120	Madam President. It only has to do with a question that I could not answer from earlier. A senator on how this was done at first, that people then used their hunting experience to distribute literature. Yes, yes, but there was nothing possible to do as it was done exactly. As I pointed out, men with exactly the same argument could have placed part of the hunting rights in the settlements and said: the workers, the fish industry in the country and the rural areas, and the settlements have contributed to this resource, they also have the right. It was a political decision, a cruel political decision, to attach all these rights to the arrangement. Of course, there is a practitioner's practitioner to catch fish on ships in general. I often feel that this conversation goes all over the world when people start talking about it, like that day might suddenly come up that one day we decide to take all the fishing grounds and hand them all over the cabs, something like that. No, that would probably not happen that way. The fish will be picked up by sailors and by ships. So, then, what is so hard about discussing changes in this arrangement? [[The president calls.]] It's just not necessary to do it this way. It is not necessarily necessary for some to have this account forever. Not necessarily that some chosen court in the land can exploit it indefinitely in its behalf. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Not by default. [[To the point: No one to talk about it.]] No, I hope not.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u121	Madam President. Now it seems that black has become white and has fallen down in this council hall, where the United States, the left category, proposes that the free market in the seaside, and the right party will arrive, and defends what under normal circumstances might call the eastern communism directly down to be the once - in - a - a - and - a - half - a - half - year - life. In view of this, I'd like to know, since we're throwing all traditional rules upside down, anyway. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon would help me to reflect on the question, upside down that it was the catchery system and the cause of what has caused all the positive changes that have occurred on the seabed in recent years and decades. I have heard another explanation that I find more likely, that there may have been increased freedoms in business with foreign countries, especially the EEA Convention, which has led to the development of this increased trade which has increased the potential for economy and technology and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u122	Madam President. Just so that I don't get put in the wrong part of this, because there's a lot of things going upside down and people talking about free markets and letting them put it in and take care of it, I'm not a special fan of something in the market, I find that in Western communities, the market borders have been overcrowded and is too much of a human life and too much about how communities develop. I have no particular interest in increasing his weight in that subject, either in Iceland or anywhere else. It can be a useful tool, but it is not to be a master, and it is not to be controlled. Because what is the market for freedom prefix in front of something other than the power of money? Of course, those who have the power to make money are in control. I don't want to see that an Icelandic fishing route is designed to make them powerful in the strength of money an even greater battlefield. I believe, of course, that the art system helped keep people in mind more about quality, and that just results in a little bit of self-improvement. When me and the Icelanders had to face that years before and up in 1980 - of course, the eating system did not come out of the water, it came into the penitentiary, and earlier black reports on the cod state, so the reality began to appear in the '70s that we could not provide what we could, we had to start rethinking it. The years from eviction and up to that point may not have been so good, because there were times when they calculated it, because we now sit on our own to the ticket, that we could just go on forever. That's when good thinking wasn't strong. This was a factor, but not the only explanation for quality and progress has been made. You're right next door. Senator. I think it can be totally expected that some part of evolution and greater diversity had come about when the main sales organization and the monomers lost some of their resources and more people were able to develop products and get them into a perimeter market. [[The president calls.]] It was a good development without me saying that it was good for the Icelanders not to be able to stand together on markets abroad, for it also had good things to say that they did not prepare one another, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u123	Madam President. I'm not going to give the senator opinions. I'm sorry if he understands me like that. But maybe it would be nice to understand the topic of opinion. The senator will determine if these two measures have weighed more weight; the increased freedom that was involved. The EEA agreements and other business contracts that we made, especially the EFTA, or the Habitat System itself. Which, yes, I admit, has clearly had quite a powerful effect, but perhaps it has become too much of a historical opinion that has been promoted in recent decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u124	Madam President. I think the importance of each factor is very difficult to weigh. Let's just say, "Account system," i.e. The fact that we came to realize and weigh, for we had only a limited quantity to hunt each year, pushed people into thinking, " How can I make more valuables out of this limited quantity that I can fetch? ' It's obviously there. Secondly, fermentation of the market may also have played a role, i.e. When smaller people came along, trying to find a place on the market aside to those who were already in the world who were inventors of new products, methods of action, and new markets. Of this we know quite an example. Third, there was simply an increased demand for goods from the market, which I believe had come anyway. Such things are not to be applied to just the map system. Of course, research, evolution, and technological advances would have come to some extent without the metrics. [[The president calls.]] So these are many interactive factors that I think have led to our achieving the results of an increase in the amount of unchanged valuables in the fishing road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u125	Madam President. I recommend a synopsis of the sale of estates, a decrease in the debt of state funds and investment in infrastructure, as well as the rest of the carriers. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concludes to hide financial and economic ministers from appointing a committee as against a long-term government sales programme, a decrease in the debt of state funds, and investment in infrastructure. The committee will appoint three economic, financial, and legal experts. The commission submitted its first report on May 31, 2017, and the final report was no later than October 10, 2017. In the final report, an assessment of the property of the state funds and other Member States, including land and other property and direct and indirect stakeholders in companies, either as stock or in any other way. In particular there will be established enterprises directly or indirectly in the majority of the state funds or other Member States. The final report will include: a. value on the property of state funds and other citizens, b. the assessment of the benefits and weaknesses of selling, in part or in all, parts of the individual enterprise, c. up-to-date proposals for government sales and assessments of sales impact on the development of debt and state funds, e. projections on the need for investments in social infrastructure, particularly health, education and transport systems, e. assessment of the state's potential to land investments in non-payable infrastructures, such as taxpaying, decrease interest costs with subsidies and/or income from property, f Assessment of the wisdom of financing, partly or completely, by the cooperation of public and private funds, and g Assessment of economic impacts by reduction of state funds and sales. In their work, the Commission can fully access the necessary data from the public bodies. Madam President. It's a suggestion. This report points to the fact that the financial cost of a Kingdom budget in 2009 (2009)2015 has taken the correct study of some 526 billion dollars. It is at the price of each year. This means that each family of four has had to carry 6.3 million, we can have it in the form of higher taxes or less government service, etc. It is noteworthy that in 2015 the financial expenses of the state's budget were about 60% of the government's net income income. So it is a big interest to the public that we master the government's debt and interest payments when six out of ten dollars enter the state box of income taxes are actually going to pay interest. I think the entire body of Congress can agree that this is a major project we have to work on. Though government interests have been successful, it is also clear that there is a great deal of work to be done, especially on the debt side of the State. We need to have the best of luck to have a frank discussion about the state's financial status, how to reduce debt, and thus reduce the debilitating interest payments. In order for us to be effective in this discussion, and that discussion can become perplexing, and without being in the way of treasuries, I think it is necessary that we get all information on the table on the property of the state, every name called, and the debt of the state. I think it's important, so we can figure out if any property in the hands of the State is right to sell. We all know that many property in the hands of the Kingdom will never be sold and that there will be no reason for it. To draw out such information, it is suggested that experts be provided to map property and evaluate their value and create some kind of long - term plan for the possible sale of state estates. It's, for example. It's remarkable to remember that the state funds probably have 450 billion or so attached in the banking system at the same time as we have to accept paying most of all European countries at the time of growth. The question, of course, is how we use the property of the State and whether it is reasonable to include that. to reduce significantly the government's holding of financial assets. There are various fields, etc., and property items in other companies where the government is taking them. But we don't have the complete vision. We need to have an assessment of the value and whether it is actually wise to sell to the relevant property as well as when it is worth it. At the same time, we need to try to get a summary of the huge task, which is investigating, an investment in the health system, in the school system, etc. I would like to testify that there is an expert assessment, including Gamma, the cumulative need for investment in the interior is about 500 billion. It is our sins from the past. This group of 500 billion is missing. What is more, the need for investment in the next ten years is likely to stay on the interiors and to build on them as we have to do. So there is much work to be done. We need to try to draw together as the complete form so that at least we can do so. Contracts and projects, whether or not about possible sales or how we plan to set priorities when it comes to necessary infrastructure, etc. But I still think we're at least... Most of us agree that we are expected to work in any wise way to reduce the debt of the state, to reduce interest costs, which are third of the largest money paid by a government fund that is debilitating to his ability to carry out the tasks we agree on, and which, of course, also leads to a loss of ability to lose. curses of common remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u126	Madam President. Thank you. Kárason And I have to state that I agree with him that it is a good idea to get government property sales in a fixed process and have it a process more open, productive, and professional, and that exactly what I think we can all agree to reduce the debt of state funds, etc. I would like to ask about the senator's position that, instead of three members appointed by economists in economics, financial and legal matters, a committee would better appoint representatives of all political parties at the General Assembly, even the presence of representatives of the labor movement, stressing that the loss of the trust of the state fund is one of the most important activities of the day. I also wondered, " Is it not quite a shock to the movers of the Parliament's decree to report the final report of such a dramatic matter as selling state property immediately after eight months? ' Is there a hurry? Don't you think that's just what we need to do? That's what I'd like to hear to start with a whisk. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. Then I have more questions for him next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u127	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have serious doubts about appointing a large commission with representatives of all political parties. I'd rather get specialists to draw out and then put them out for us, and then we can take on the task of talking about it and doing CDs and handling what we have to do. I think the other is the most critical way that this will never be done, because I think it's necessary. I think it is absolutely essential for members of the Parliament that we receive this mapping process, both in terms of the total state's property, the assessment of what might be considered to be the release of the state, the sensibleness, and the fairness of those materials, but also what privileges we are awaiting, the huge tasks that await us in transport, health care, etc. I'm warning you that we are proding ourselves for this work at this time. We're here to take the assessment, to take the information. Then let us begin to discuss the ways in which this is done. However, it may well be that it is time to expect such work to be done at the time suggested here. But it may be the evil blood in me that makes me feel better, and me Icelanders are used to, in fact, to have time here. In some way, when time is short, we get the best way to win.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u128	Thank you. A senator for the answers. True, he did not answer me about the contact of other representatives of the stakeholders on this committee. I don't agree with him about it. It needs to be a larger committee. I think it'd be better. With regard to the infrastructure and this part of this synonym, it is evident that here is a basic proposal for subsidies and not for infrastructure. I support my opinion by saying that it is far more promising and responsible to change the regular supply of money and righteous changes in the tax system to ensure steady and regular income in the state's funds than with property. When I talk about more righteous changes in the tax system, I'm talking about changes that would depend on big business and rich people paying a relative higher share in Icelandic society's infrastructure. I would like to hear the position of a messenger on this, though I may well know in advance his answer when it comes to changing the tax system and income.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u129	Madam President. Wait a minute. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, I forgot about the interest groups, that's right. It kind of goes the same way. I'd rather not have this position at the beginning because I'm asking for it to be technical, independent experts to win the requested assessment so that it is not stained or infected by some political or professional or paid agency, etc. Then we should take over the political scene when we have received this complete picture. I find it wise to do so in this way. With regard to the government's income system, I have to say that one of the best ways to increase the income of the state and of the government, including the local community, is, of course, to stimulate the economy, to make it more living and deepening so that there will be an increase in any area, whether companies or remuneration, etc. I believe that, and you can quote history here, both in Iceland and elsewhere, that if a person is careful to be moderate in public action, the income of the government will increase. It's just the way it is. The most important way to kill income companies and reduce the income of government funds and rural society is to go too far, putting too much tax and cost on companies and the public. It will reduce the income of the government and thus the ability to care for the joint tasks that we agree to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u130	A respectable president. I welcome the contribution of this council-sense proposal. It's been a long time since I've seen such a masked novelism as in the suggestion, and it's in the last words. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the age-old theory of the novelist's need for increase in cake, and then all will be good, probably well-garried cake, and the bread crumbs theory will make the most of it. I'm celebrating. It is good for humans to act in a clean manner and speak as if they were being treated with blood. It's so far gone in the direction of new free thinking that I'm no better than one of the proposed sources of tax recovery, since the team of experts has a share. to evaluate the potential of the state to invade infrastructure without payment, such as tax pay. How are we doing? Do we need to let some experts in our town evaluate how we can attack on taxes? It's not what. A member of the board of directors? [[Up front.]] What is more, the final report will give a clear picture of the investments needed in the coming years. I got it. I got it. A senator to study the campaign code of those classes that now make up the government. There's an excellent list of the investments we believe are necessary. In the whole of this proposal, only this simple, black, white reality that is focused on government things that are not good and that need to be turned into prices. [[The president calls.]] There is no mention of those who make use of the ministry or of what is being discussed with the State. [[The president calls.]] It is simply a matter of the new birth of freeism. [[The president calls.]] It's nice to see her, though she's not pretty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u131	Madam President. I don't know how to answer it. Senator. [["Beautiful. "]] It is sometimes difficult, and at times it is impossible to have objective discussions with people who have nothing other to do than to turn out of their homes and have a riot. I was asking that State property be charted, evaluated long-term internal schedules. So goes what? A senator to turn his back and say that I'm suggesting an outside of the tax system. What kind of bullshit talk is this? I refuse to be dragged down on this plan, OK? Senator. What I'm simply suggesting is that we will be given all the necessary information so that we can have a perfunctory and informed discussion about whether and the property of the State can be sold. I specifically mentioned the banks. I specifically mention that the banks are probably 450 billion bound at the same time as the state's funds are wrapped in debt, and the third highest tax paid by the state is interest pay. I say, wait, it's not wise for society, so we can do the work we're supposed to be doing. In health matters, to make better use of that money, in a more reasonable way, by freeing it of money, by selling shares in other potential government companies, by reducing debt and/or by using it for building up materials? It's so simple. I also suggest that the government's potential be assessed as part of an investment that is necessary, including with tax pay, without payment, and with tax pay. [[The president calls.]] There's no outdoor, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u132	A respectable president. I'm sorry to cause you what you're doing. Óli Björn Kárason's senator's disappointment I've obviously failed. He calls for a more objective discussion. All right. I'll live up to his claim and try to participate in it. But what is suggested in that objective discussion in the preceding suggestion? It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ With some simple information, Icelanders are faced with two options. On the one hand, the Kingdom can continue to own businesses, houses, soils, and more and more, experiencing heavy interest payments in the coming years, with less - important services and higher taxes. However, parts of the State's property can be sold and paid off debts. It's such a simple, rough thing. A senator, in part, frightened to read it. It's like these are the only two ways you can run a government fund. It's sort of a half a mile, so I'm going to let myself blow this chair, and it's even over me, as it's happened in the past few days, people have been very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very busy. Either we have the bad government, and we're tied to the debt or we sell it, and everything's good. I would have been available for a very serious discussion in which the financial needs of the State were discussed. We can look at the tax system in recent years, how the tax change of the last government has benefited best, how tax system can be used as a subsidance tool, how to look at the possession of the state of certain local estates, and even through sale, how it affects users' services of the state estate, etc. [[The president calls.]] But to put it into some sort of busy conversation at some zero point - it just isn't that way. And they complain that their newfound thinking is against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u133	The president wants to know that no senator has been widely available in foreign languages, but the president would also like to note that the matter is indeed Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u134	Madam President. I think I'm afraid we'll be sorry. A senator late will agree, but it's okay, I accept that. In my younger years, I was so happy to have many good friends who were great left men. We had good reasoning and often had a heated argument but always came to understand as friends. But my God Almighty, it's pointed out, and it says 'w'. A senator with some simpleness, that we are faced with the choice that the State should continue to possess all that belongs to, including all financial assets of over 450 billion, or to some extent release that money, at some time, and use it in the wood and/or the fall of debt. In case of a moment. A senator believes that it is a new form of free thinking that I cannot help in that regard. That's not the question. This is the question of how and what assignment we will use our common possessions. I say, our shared possessions are not best used in financial management. I'd rather have them in hospitals, in schools, in the road system. If it's a free mind, then what? Senator, I'm just a free mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u135	Madam President. How happy we are at that time! paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason wants to invest in the woods. He spoke of the sins of the past and named their lack of 500 billion. I don't think this amount's going to be close. And that's right, of course, we have to reduce debt. We have to invest in wood. But before we go any further, I can't pass on a moment of reflection. These sins of the past, that is a reason for them. The track's starting to scare. I wondered, " Can the Independence Party really sell government property? ' We witnessed from the turn of the century that there were private banks here. That privatization failed terribly, to say the least. We have also watched the last miseries of how the government's property has been sold on the duty of the Independence Party. That's where I can think of, for that's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned the need for investment to 500 billion and carried a report from Gamma, how the camp loan system has been sold to the last semester on duty, as I say, the Independence Party. This is an example of a dramatic error in which hundreds of apartments have bought sharks and contributes to greater housing difficulties while the common people have at the same time had very limited access to such apartments. There is no need to list any more examples. There's one thing that's missing in this council arrangement. Just about how this dramatic mistake, which the Independence Party began to develop, will be repeated, together with others in fact. Then I'm talking about how this system will be distributed and how it will prevent government sales from being sold to party quality. It's a question of whether they can be sold on a free market for a change, since they were now talking about a free market here in connection with a fishing government. There are two things that make me think of when I read this synonym, in fact, there are many things I want to think about, but two things I especially want to make. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir spoke of a small group of experts who are expected to do this work. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason did not consider it a matter of choice even if it was being done in haste. These three experts are required to discuss separate and physical issues. One is the sale of state property, yes and how to use the value to reduce debt, etc. And we're at the other side, financing the wood. And I ask myself, " Wouldn't it be right to separate these two main points? ' These three specialized persons do not necessarily have to be specialized in health, education, and transportation, although they are expert on how to obtain the assets of the State. A respectable president. I'm worried about the council members. It says, regarding the evaluation of the report, by permission of the president: ▪ Means whether it is reasonable to finance subsidies, in part or in all, through the cooperation of public and private funds. There we go. Personalization, private business, I'm afraid that should be in secret so little. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has now twice sent in queries to minister, i.e. Both before Christmas and after Christmas, where he asks for surveillance agencies and their expenses. It's nice to have the Senator interested in some surveillance agencies. You see, it was a lack of someone who even became one. that there was a collapse, which in fact, was called on by a mocker in Valhalla and in the Wormsmom, as if it were a choice experience when the crew of a cent collapsed by tens of percent, and families lost all their rent and the company collapsed. But it's a different arm. I'm curious to know if the senator may be heading for some of these investments to become part of the privatized management institutions. I wouldn't be surprised. Actually, I'm not necessarily worried about that. I'm more concerned about education and health care being exclusive.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u136	Madam President. It was an interesting exchange that took place here earlier, and it can be said. It should not have been surprising that the left green isn't exactly the same line as the other. the first to speak this matter, to be spoken in a mild word. What brings my attention to this is the creation of a financial account for the state. It is expected that it will be published at the latest by 2020 and that it will take at least this year to win that stock account. Under these are all the possessions of the kingdom, including roads and things. In fact, the work has already begun to map the property of the State. I see that the chairman of the budget board is one of the candidates. He well knows, though, that this work is being done. You ask yourself, " Do they not trust those who are in these positions? ' Why, then, do they feel that they need someone outside? It was kind of the first thing that caught my attention in this matter. And then you have to say that when we look at such a vast amount of new-freeism - I'm going to agree with it. My partner, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, about the fact that this is, of course, nothing more than a free mind. There was a suggestion to sell everything, practically with a man and a mouse. I heard why. A senator explained that some things would never be sold. I'm glad we agree on that. At least it's not that everything is for sale. In other words, we Icelanders are capable of selling things. For example, we can buy a canned mountain air in a souvenir shop, one of the spray shops, so we have now managed to sell a lot of things. A critical discussion? Yes, on what basis? Most of us left - minded people in our lives are not in the line that selling all government possessions is necessarily the most favorable and best way to do it. We know the story. We sold Shimann, and we are faced with the need for a much more expensive light-leading process. Many smaller rural areas do not sit at the same level as the larger ones. A hospital was to be built for the phone money. It speaks of building another hospital, or building other infrastructures for what would be sold. I agree with what. A senator who was here the last member of the puzzle to be intimidated in this regard. We can also take as an example the local community, such as Smokeytown, who fell into the pit of selling their possessions to Reita and rent so much more expensive. Why should it be more practical to sell large amounts of housing? We speak about it and would be interesting to know if the senator agrees, to build a home for the Congress offices, because we do not feel that it is practical to rent a house on every basis for members of Congress and other activities that the council needs to perform. I am not convinced that selling valuable possessions makes sense to me. Admittedly, it was not. A senator should weigh what is wise to sell and what is not. The question, then, is always the question: Why is discernment based on the basis of what? And I quote them earlier when they have sold their dairy cows once and are not used wisely. So why shouldn't this happen again? What has changed? We're also talking about everything owned by the government. It's Landactivation and power company. These are called banks, or financial institutions. The terminal, for example. Here's a proposal to sell it. And so on. At any rate, I take no note that a synonym is presented for this purpose. I find much in it to suggest what the presidents of this government have spoken about, as in the case of tourism, that they too are to sell, so that propertymen can possess land and sell access. That has even been true. Get past the current minister, that I may remember. I agree that this is the great capitalism of those who have taken over the money of the country for far too long and not well. When we think about who could buy the assets, we always come to the same conclusion. It is those who own their money, who are taking over a tremendous amount of possessions already. Huge property is now in few hands, which, among other things, results in the fact that the renter is the way he is. Here, they buy whole blocks, and they also build houses that rent directly, either through travel or rent, and they keep people in bondage. I don't know if the taxpayers would make money or the rich of the country. Actually, I have more faith in the profit of the land's wealthy. However, I agree with the vision of the senator that, of course, we should pay off debt and reduce the financial expenses of a state fund. Of this, most people agree that debt is burdensome and not good for the future. But that this is done by the prerogative that it can only be done with government sales - I'm not saying that we should own every financial institution for the rest of our lives. Of course, we know that our financial system needs to be reduced from what it is today. But it's not easy. While we take at least a large amount of money out of these companies, there is no reason to rush into that trade. At least that's my opinion. I'm pointing to the approach, like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in, that there's only two things out there, otherwise we're in trouble in our lives, i.e. If we do not sell, we will live at this high cost. Of course not. We do not approach it in the same way as we make money, and the fact is that this government and its members are not very interested in it, whether they are generally taking it from resources as a fair run, or they are paying taxes on those with a very high income; now or perhaps taking a better look at the interest of those who choose to pay by interest or income. In many other ways government funds can be funded in order to pay off debt faster. Not to be overlooked, however, is not our only assignment. It is, of course, building wood, in which this government and the last one seems to go slowly. But this need not be done solely. I don't care about that. I have not felt that those who own the money, those whom we like to call rich, have some special concern for the State or would rent the state or state institutions or anyone else who needs a home, of course, or of the national community. I haven't noticed that they're in general thinking about the interests of taxpayers. I don't think so. I think it's the wrong approach. I can't say that I'm very excited about this Congress resolution. It's okay to put my arms around it, I'm not going to argue with it. I think I'm working on the finance Department with what I quoted earlier, so I think it's totally unnecessary. I think the underlying tone here is that we're supposed to sell everything we can possibly sell because it's different we can't build a good community. [[The president calls.]] I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u137	Madam President. I find it quite helpful to see a suggestion that a long-term plan for government sales is being made, although, in general, the sale of government property has been performed at great randomities and often seems unprovoked to other extent than to obtain property. I also like to make a long-term plan on reducing the debt of state funds, but now such a long-term plan is actually in the form of the State's financial policy, which aims from the rule of reaching less than 30% of the gross domestic product. I'm asking, "What's the point of this? The proposal speaks of trying to reduce the debt of the state, but selling property, i.e. The privatization of government property is often justified on the basis of a reduction in the state's debt, but it is to be noted that the decline in the state's debt usually means a reduction in the personal savings of the entire economy. But it's not the big problem that the state owes so much money at the moment. Of course, we are just above set goals, and we may, of course, continue to pay off our government debts. But the big problem is not a high debt rate but a high interest cost that is explained by a very high interest level. I'm referring to Ólafur Margeirsson as an economist, but I asked a total joke about the financial debt, whether it resulted in high interest costs. But the fact is: No. Not in Japan, so I'll quote him. Could it be that money policy is important? What about Iceland? The answer is yes. You see, the money policy in Iceland has long made it very difficult for us to deal with the financial expenses and expenses of the State. It is true that the federal debt has dropped. In recent years, they have dropped so many hundreds of billions. But the interest cost has been dropped only about 4 billion a year, and we are still stuck with our 70 billion - year - old interest rate. So it is not obvious that by this suggestion there will be any results in the goal of not injecting money from a government fund into a pocket, well, primarily to a pension fund, if the truth is to be said. The danger of such a government trade strategy is that of losing sight of the real objective of paying considerably less, in my opinion, than 70 billion dollars. every year for growth. That should be the goal. This might be added to a suggestion of some kind to a high interest level. I've been waiting for such a suggestion from the highest level. It's a government, but it hasn't. You see, I find it quite unbelievable, and I've said it in this chair before, to hear the government beating on their chests for the privilege of borrowing on A minus while the interest level is so high in the country. I'm sure I'm glad that this is going to be a plan to try to map the essential structure, and it's really needed, because insides fall quite often between ships and docks during the discussion. But putting these two things in context with each other is completely crazy. But since we talk about the infrastructure, we could talk about the infrastructure of health care, where our health care services have been allowed to rot down a lot over the past few years, and now we've got the butter, because the goal is to replace these social infrastructures with some kind of private business. Likewise, many of the country's roads are in bad conditions. Smoke road in Southland and Waternes Road need both improvements, and the natural ring road and other roads. All of this, however, is in the process of a transport program that for some reason cannot be fully financed. Although the council is eager to praise all the beautiful things when it comes to transportation, and, in fact, other forms of transportation, the willingness to finance it rarely follows. You see, money is often drawn up as some sort of competition between expectation and reality, in which the law of the book of home is drawn and in some way expedient. But first of all, financial matters are not a home book. They only submit to all other laws. Of course, I welcome all efforts to map the state's budget, map the infrastructure, and understand, for example, what state property is because we really do not have a complete overview of it today. I hope that I can even work that way. will be published and maintained for an extended period of time by the pooled official files. Conspiracy in the administration is always a good thing. But I worry about the endless shortsightedness, not to mention economic illiteracy, saying that selling state property can bring about a good state of affairs. I'd much rather see some sense. I'd like to point out that in my old job, I got research, including... on corruption, we often talked about ten patterns of corruption that would always come back and forth in different manifestations. One of the main factors is to shovel property and value from the State for special interests. While there are reports around the world - I'm not thinking of Central Asia, the Caucasus, Eastern Europe and a lot of other countries - it's not supposed to be customary in Iceland. I'm not saying we should never sell government property. That may not be quite realistic. But I want us to be very careful in all of that. We need a tremendous rule on this. Then we need to let the failure to think that we can pay for some short - term projects that may require maintenance, other related projects, and so forth, to try to pay it always by getting rid of possessions that in some cases might produce profit, as was the case with many rural communities that sold their property to real estate ehf. A few years ago. There, the cost of operating to rent costs changed, and the situation did not improve, for there is no reason that Smokejanestown has been in intensive care as one of the community members who has sold property by this convention. This endless privatization is a short - term thought, it's ridiculous. It does not match real economic logic. If people are really interested in trying to reduce the debt of the State, working at it, trying to finance it in some way. Perhaps with more money from some of these government companies, perhaps with something else. But look at the real problem. The real problem is a high interest level in the country that harms consumers, damages people in a general market who are trying to borrow, try to finance corporate structure, or finance housing. And damages a government fund that has to pay about 70 billion dollars. each year to grow. This is the real problem that needs to be dealt with. And although I like that we map these things, I don't think we should lose sight of that goal at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-02-02-24.u138	Madam President. I now agree with some points made in the final talk. I think it's a good thing, in itself, that here are three young laughs in the Independence Party that have joined us for a suggestion, giddy. paritaprevir Óli the Björn of Meriam, Bruzer the Kárason of Níelsson, and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. Well, then they're definitely not part of the conglomerate. And one might feel that way in a light bed, but of course he is suspicious. There's a bit of a liberal smell going on. I think there's more in the back than the weather is on the surface. Of course, this is in order to keep the personal evangelizing work on schedule. All the government's assets are under here. All of them. Everything's to be measured. Surely, the Holy Church, since they think it belongs to the State. And all the lands of the state, and all the houses, and all the houses of the state. It's all to be underneath, although it's mostly spoken of when men are sewn, that it can be about property in banks. Yeah, let's talk about it. Is there reason for the State to own all this bank? Of course, these are mixed together and put in one heat so physical thing that it can hardly be taken seriously. There is such a huge difference between the possession of the state in perhaps another or third bank in the country and then in the basic infrastructure companies, such as land induction, that there was only half of it or in an urgent need to be given nuclear service in the country. This should not be mixed. Consider, for example, land induction. I guess it's about 250 billion or so today. In fact, the book of the State is a low value, so that if it went out, it would result in some sale. The company itself now foretells that within two years or so, after two years, the position of the one they have strived for according to debt rates. Then she can start paying $105,20 billion a year for profit. Would it be wise to sell a company for such double your own money, as some talk about? That's what they've been writing about. Yeah, it'd be great to get 400 billion for Landing, that's what it was. Yes, it would be about 20 years' wages that the company could pay. In other words, if we don't sell and own the company and make it pay our money, we should do it every 20 years. No debt. But, in effect, it is not even this way because, naturally, land induction is a huge mystery given to the company by the state, a part of which is free of charge. It's a state-of-the-circuit right. And so far, the U.S. tribunal inlands has been used without paying for it. Are we ready to make all of this go along? All the activation rights of national activation, all its access to the resources? No, I guess not. So, for example, should we be mixing it with the question of whether the State might sell some of its property at Arion Bank or Bank of Iceland. I don't think so. Earth. Should it be by itself that the Kingdom sells away its soil? It may still live in farms that may be largely desolate. Is it reasonable, at least while the earth's laws are so that the state does not even premium when land is sold or not? The State has a premium in the only case of a peace - declared territory. It's completely out of the ordinary, in my opinion. And that time when the pursuit of wealth, including foreigns, is increasing again. Will we see that and that the State will contribute more and more to the survival of the nation in its own land? No, I guess not. In my opinion, turn it around. The government should stop selling land. It's supposed to put in the premiums of state and community law so that society can always wonder about it, if land is sold, is it better a social property? Why should not rural society have prenuptial rights in the open country when foreign consumers come and try to buy them? And thus defend the profits of society? But he's not there today. The laws of the earth were destroyed in their time. You also need to answer the context of parts when wondering: Should the State hold some of its special possessions or not? And then I could give talks about the housing and the chaos of the business, the arrogance that's back to this team when it takes all the property of the state and believes that they should be sold more and less, making it one total tenant in the real estate. Yeah, like he's kind of moneyy today. What did it come about when the General asked if it would be in the best interest to negotiate with one party for long periods of rent? There was the possibility on board for some time that perhaps the General Assembly could resolve their housing arrangements here in the Qunos so that instead of renting a number of people from a broken home, one large tenant would come along and take over the project. Some people knew where the rent price would lie in an improved home. The result was that, in view of the Ministry of Economics, the Commission and the Generals themselves and anyone who examined the matter, it was not a crime for the Generals to rent. And that the General would have his own home here on the box in less than 25 years by building it themselves, compared to paying the rent for as long as it would pay the rent. Is it, then, an economic sense of reason? I agree with what. The last speaker, at times, feels that all common human sense is left to lands and is sad when the missionary continues. It's just to some extent that it's better if the kingdom doesn't belong and the kingdom doesn't. And though it be contrary to the judgment of experience, according to all reasoning, it is continuing. I must also say exactly as it already is. A business venture, which may not be fair to short proposals, is related to the chin when the Independence Party and Business Council are involved, offers their suggestions for real estate, in the experience of Realty ehf. .............. A senator mentioned, to the facts of a real estate market today, you're all finished. What is involved? Do people really believe themselves to be such a mess? Or is it just not important? The missionary waxes. I could then agree with another speaker here who warned a little about his experience in holding the privatization of government property in the hands of the Independence Party. Shall we review how the Sements factory went? How did she get paid when she was private? No, it was never paid. The government never got the money. Should we go over the SR, the State Cold Factories? How'd it go? Which was sold, privatized before the New Year's Eve, so eager to book them in that year. What did the buyers do? They paid one third of the purchase price in the months ahead. What was it like for the Peasant Factory that was sold at 1,100 million? Yes, people forgot that there were 760 million in the supply of manure. It was rather convenient to buy it at 1,100 million and then pay for it just with the food sale that was provided when it was bought. Then they owned the factory and owned it in Gufunesi. Should we go over the Land Phone? How'd it go with the Landsphone? It was tried to privatize it in 2002 if I remember correctly, or just after the turn of the century. Fortunately, this failed in a previous experiment. The government owned the Land Phone and the Net, and all of it for another four years. And what happened back then? The cell phone paid the government between 20 and 30 billion in profits or one third to one third of the price given four, five years later. Was selling the Land Phone a smart arrangement? What happened to all that was to be done and built for him? It didn't go very well. The accident of a private network of communications in the country is one of the most tragic mistakes man has made for many years. In one sense, the suggestion approaches things where I can agree that it is good to review whether in some cases it is wise to change the shape of the state's property from one to another. That's what I'm willing to do. But I don't want to worry about it. The fact that everything's under control. I don't think that's a good idea. But if we were just talking about studying property things like that. In banks, let's say that there's an agreement that the state was going to own the Lands Bank, one big fixture bank, I'd love to discuss it. Yeah. Might it be wise to change shapes of state property, transfer it from Iceland Bank to the road? Yeah, it's totally demeaning. Although there are some things we do not have to disagree about, we do not have to disagree about them. As a result, the payment of debt should be kept in mind that only people sell the same property once. This does not in itself affect the State's clean debt, since the property is against the debt that is paid down. And nothing comes out of it in itself to a clean debt unless the interest given from the property is less than the interest paid on account of the written debt. [[The president calls.]] True, at one point, Madam President, a man in the island who could sell the same dog often. [[The president calls.]] But it was because he had been taught to jump off a table when he was sold into a foreign ship, and he would always swim ashore again and then be sold over and over again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is not usually possible when the State is involved with possessions that cannot swim.
